CITY OF KASSON, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-14 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance No. 8.1-25, passed 8-13-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 838
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF KASSON,
MINNESOTA, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and,
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Minnesota empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and,
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and,
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CITY OF KASSON, MINNESOTA:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Kasson.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted shall consist of the following
Titles:
                  TITLE I:         GENERAL PROVISIONS
                  TITLE III:         ADMINISTRATION
                  TITLE V:          PUBLIC WORKS
                  TITLE VII:         TRAFFIC CODE
                  TITLE IX:         GENERAL REGULATIONS
                  TITLE XI:         BUSINESS REGULATIONS
                  TITLE XIII:      GENERAL OFFENSES
                  TITLE XV:         LAND USAGE
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriated money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, section, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be necessary for the preservation of
the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the people of the City of
Kasson, and shall take effect after it has been passed and adopted.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Kasson, Minnesota, on
this 13th day of January 2010.
                        
ATTEST:
Randy D. Lenth /s/             Tim Tjosaas /s/
Randy D. Lenth, City Administrator               Tim Tjosaas, Mayor
Published in the Dodge County Independent this 27th day of January, 2010.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
"Kasson City Code", for which designation "code of ordinances", "codified
ordinances" or "code" may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "Traffic Code". Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01". Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or", whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of Kasson, Minnesota.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This Kasson City Code, as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Kasson.
      COUNTY. Dodge County, Minnesota.
      DAY. The period of time between any midnight and the midnight following.
      IN THE CITY. All territory over which the city now has or shall hereafter
acquire jurisdiction for the exercise of its police powers or other regulatory
powers.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. Construed as giving authority to a majority of the
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME. Whenever certain hours are named in this code, they shall
mean Central Standard Time or Daylight Saving Time, as may be in current use in
the city.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property, as
defined in this section.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line, the lateral
lines of a roadway where there is no curb and the adjacent property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include any
person holding a written or an oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a
part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
      WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Prior Code, § 1-3)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk-Administrator for public inspection. The City Clerk-Administrator shall
provide a copy for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council is authorized to create, by resolution, adopted
by a majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative
penalties.
      (2)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are
intended to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective
and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
      (3)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of
the code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes
that are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by
resolution of a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be
effective, an administrative penalty for a particular violation must be
established before the violation occurred.
      (4)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Administrator or other
person giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code, in a
written notice of an alleged violation, sent by first class mail to the person
who is alleged to have violated the code, the person giving notice may request
the payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation directly to
the City Administrator within 14 days of the notice of the violation. In the
sole discretion of the person giving the notice of the alleged violation, the
time for payment may be extended an additional 14 days, whether or not
requested by the person to whom the notice has been given. In addition to the
administrative penalty, the person giving notice may request in the notice to
the alleged violator to adopt a compliance plan to correct the situation
resulting in the alleged violation and may provide that if the alleged violator
corrects the situation resulting in the alleged violation within the time
specified in the notice, that the payment of the administrative penalty will be
waived.
      (5)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is
due, the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request
to appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
      (6)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative
penalty is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation
creating the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its
Attorney, may bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this
code. Likewise, the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the
first instance, rather than requesting the payment of an administrative
penalty, even if a penalty for the particular violation has been established by
Council resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of
this code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including state statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including state statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
      (3)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the
costs of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
      (4)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
      (5)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in
division (A) above, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any
provision of this code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or
abate the violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   CITY OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
         
31.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
         
32.   EMERGENCIES
         
33.   EMPLOYMENT BACKGROUND CHECKS
CHAPTER 30: CITY OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.001   City Administrator
   
30.002   Service charge for returned checks
   
30.003   Finance Director
City Council
   
30.015   Meetings; days and times
   
30.016   Salaries of Mayor and Council members
Planning and Zoning Commission
   
30.030   Establishment
   
30.031   Members; appointment
   
30.032   Officers; meetings; annual report
   
30.033   Program of work; adoption
   
30.034   Comprehensive city plan; preparation; adoption procedure; effectuation
   
30.035   Zoning ordinances; proposal
   
30.036   Official map; preparation
   
30.037   Plat submitted to Commission prior to Council approval
   
30.038   Amendments; procedure
   
30.039   Recommended public works; list
   
30.040   Compliance with plan
Cable Communications Advisory Committee
   
30.055   Establishment
   
30.056   Appointment of members; terms of office; oath
   
30.057   Officers and meetings
   
30.058   Vote
   
30.059   Duties
   
30.060   Effectivity
Library Board
   
30.075   Establishment
   
30.076   Appointment of members; terms of office; oath
   
30.077   Officers; meetings; annual report
   
30.078   Duties
   
30.079   Director/Librarian; appointment and responsibilities
   
30.080   Personnel policy and operational policy
   
30.081   Library Fund
   
30.082   Conformance to statute
   
30.083   Effectivity
Star City Commission
   
30.095   Short title
   
30.096   Definitions
   
30.097   Establishment
   
30.098   Appointment to office
   
30.099   Removal of members
   
30.100   Meetings; officers
   
30.101   Commission staff
   
30.102   Rules and procedure
   
30.103   Powers and duties
   
30.104   Annual report
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing city to establish Planning Commission, see M.S. § 462.354
   Municipal planning generally; see M.S. §§ 462.351 to 462.365
   Powers of Councils generally, see M.S. §§ 412.191 to 412.231
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Offices defined. The City Council shall appoint one person to the
position of City Administrator.
   (B)   Appointment and removal. The City Administrator shall be appointed by
a majority of the City Council for an indefinite term and may be removed from
office by affirmative action by a majority of the full City Council, pursuant
to the city employment policy.
   (C)   Qualifications. The City Administrator shall be selected solely on the
basis of the person’s executive and administrative qualifications, experience,
formal education and knowledge of accepted practices pertaining to the duties
of the office.
   (D)   Direction. The City Administrator shall be subject to the supervision
and direction of the Mayor and the City Council as a collective body, pursuant
to state statutes. The City Council shall, at least once annually, undertake a
review of the City Administrator’s performance. Review comments shall be
received from the Council members and peers, which may include department
heads, consultants, members from pertinent boards and commissions and the
public. A self-assessment shall be received from the City Administrator. This
data shall be compiled by the City Attorney or other person or entity selected
by the City Council. The City Administrator shall have a private review with
the Administrative Committee, followed by a review by the full City Council at
a regular Council meeting.
   (E)   Functions and duties. The City Administrator shall be the chief
administrative officer of the city, shall be responsible for the proper
administration of all affairs of the city and shall oversee and direct the
operation of all departments and offices of the city, except as otherwise
provided by law. In fulfilling the responsibilities of the Office of the City
Administrator, the City Administrator shall be empowered and required to do as
follows:
      (1)   Supervise and direct the administration of all departments,
offices, municipal functions and services under the control of the City
Council, except as otherwise provided by law;
      (2)   Develop, subject to Council review, and issue administrative
policies, rules, regulations and procedures necessary to ensure the proper
management of all departments and offices;
      (3)   Oversee the enforcement of all laws, city ordinance provisions and
resolutions of the city and, as necessary, make recommendations for revisions
or additions;
      (4)   Attend and participate in discussions at meetings of the Council
and other bodies as required. The City Administrator shall represent the city
at all functions as appropriate and not in conflict with the prerogatives of
the Mayor and the Council;
      (5)   Prepare and submit an annual budget to the Council and administer
it after receiving Council approval;
      (6)   Administer and manage the finances of the city subject to Council
approval;
      (7)   Advise the Council as to the financial condition of the city;
      (8)   Recommend and submit for Council approval or disapproval the
employment, promotion or removal of all city personnel; oversee the
recruitment, screening and interviewing of prospective employees;
      (9)   Make recommendations to the Council as to wages, salaries and
employee benefits of all city employees;
      (10)   Direct all personnel matters as provided for by the personnel
policies established by the City Council with the authority to assign or
transfer personnel; assist the City Council Negotiating Committee in all
negotiations of employee labor contracts for approval by the Council; provide a
system for annual employee performance appraisals and directly evaluate
department heads and administrative staff;
      (11)   Supervise purchasing, including the making or letting of purchases
and contracts in accordance with the directives of the City Council and
applicable laws; provide for the receipt of estimates, quotations and sealed
bids and submit to the Council as appropriate;
      (12)   Monitor all consultant and contract work performed for the city;
      (13)   Coordinate the City Attorney’s activities for the city;
      (14)   Recommend the adoption of measures as may be necessary or
expedient for the health, safety and welfare of the community or for the
improvement of the organization and operation of municipal government;
      (15)   Prepare and/or provide periodic reports, summaries, information
and recommendations relating to municipal services, projects and issues for
submittal to the Council;
      (16)   Fulfill the responsibilities of the Office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer where statutory reference is made to the position; and
      (17)   Perform such other duties as may be placed under the City
Administrator’s jurisdiction by Council action or as required by law.
   (F)   Miscellaneous. The City Administrator or the City Clerk shall be the
custodian of its seal and records, and shall sign its official papers, shall
post and publish notices, ordinances and resolutions as may be required. The
City Administrator shall perform such other appropriate duties as may be
imposed upon the City Administrator by the Council. In the absence of the City
Administrator from the municipality or upon disability, the Finance Director
shall also act as Deputy City Administrator, to serve during the absence or
disability. When acting as Deputy City Administrator, the Finance Director may
discharge any of the duties of the City Administrator, as provided by M.S. §
412.151, as may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 2-1) (Ord. 773, passed - -; Ord. 856, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 30.002 SERVICE CHARGE FOR RETURNED CHECKS.
   (A)   There shall be imposed at a rate set annually by resolution of the
City Council, per check, for collection of checks paid to the city and its
various departments and operations which are returned unpaid after proper
presentation to a bank.
   (B)   The service fee provided for in this section is in addition to any
other remedies, civil or criminal, that may otherwise be available to the city.
   (C)   If the city receives two checks for the payment of utility bills from
any individual which the checks are returned unpaid after proper presentation
to a bank, the city shall thereafter demand cash payment of utility bills from
the individual. The term CASH PAYMENT shall include payment by currency,
certified check or money order.
(Prior Code, § 2-1.1) (Ord. 643, passed - -; Ord. 690, passed - -; Ord. 762,
passed - -)
§ 30.003 FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Generally. The City Council shall appoint a City Finance Director. The
City Finance Director shall receive and safely keep all city money, including
liquor store funds. The City Finance Director shall promptly enter all receipts
in an account book, showing the date, source, kind and amount of each payment
and shall deposit all money immediately in the city’s official depository. The
City Finance Director shall also pay out city funds and in doing so shall draw
up an order, in writing, which the City Council shall audit and, if
appropriate, allow and the Mayor and Administrator shall sign the same.
   (B)   Record keeping. The City Finance Director shall have the books and
records available for inspection at any time. After the close of each year, the
City Finance Director shall prepare and file with the Administrator a detailed
account of the year’s receipts and disbursements.
   (C)   Other duties. The City Finance Director shall receive fees, fines and
other payments due to the city and give out receipts for same. The City Finance
Director will also be responsible for the investment of city money and sinking
funds according to City Council instructions.
   (D)   Financial statements to be prepared by Administrator. Notwithstanding
the appointment of a City Finance Director, the annual city financial report,
the statement of tax collections and the statement of outstanding bonds and
orders shall be prepared by the Administrator. The City Finance Director shall
assist the Administrator in preparing financial statements mentioned
hereinabove.
   (E)   Administrator to supervise. The City Administrator shall supervise the
work of the City Finance Director. The City Finance Director shall also be
designated Deputy Administrator. In the absence or disability of the
Administrator, the Deputy Administrator may perform all duties of the
Administrator.
   (F)   Position description. A position description for the City Finance
Director shall be adopted by the City Council by resolution as part of the city
compensation plan. The position description for the City Finance Director shall
include a detailed description of the essential functions of the job, the
mental abilities required, the personal attributes required and the minimum
qualifications for the position.
   (G)   Appointment. The City Finance Director shall be hired by majority vote
of the City Council for an indefinite term and may be removed only by a
majority vote of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-1.2) (Ord. 750, passed - -)
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.015 MEETINGS; DAYS AND TIMES.
   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the second Wednesday
and the fourth Wednesday in each month at 6:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 2-2) (Ord. 736, passed - -)
§ 30.016 SALARIES OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   Salaries of the Mayor and Council Members are hereby fixed as follows.
   (A)   The annual salary of the Mayor shall be$4,000.
   (B)   The annual salary of each member of the Council (other than the Mayor)
shall be$3,000.
   (C)   Council members shall be compensated at the rate of $35 per meeting
for up to 36 meetings January through June and up to 36 meetings July through
December when acting at any meeting as the official designee of the City
Council, excluding the two regularly scheduled Council meetings.
   (D)   Meetings related to legal or personnel matters lasting over four hours
will be compensated at $25 per hour for the length of the entire meeting.
   (E)   The salaries provided herein shall be effective January 1, 2021.
(Prior Code, § 2-2.1) (Ord. 753, passed - -; Ord. 782, passed - -; Ord. 816,
passed - -; Am. Ord. 847, passed 1-9-2013; Am. Ord. 852, passed 7-9-2014; Am.
Ord. 878, passed 9-23-2020)
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 30.030 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A City Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby established. The Commission
shall be the city planning agency.
(Prior Code, § 2-3) (Ord. 494, passed - -)
§ 30.031 MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of seven members. Six
members shall be appointed by the City Council and the Council shall select one
member of the Commission from among its own members. Any member shall be
automatically terminated from the appointed position upon three consecutive
absences from a regularly scheduled Planning and Zoning Commission meeting
without due cause. Advance notice of a member’s inability to attend a regularly
scheduled meeting must be received by the Administrator’s office by noon of the
day prior to the date of the meeting unless an unforseen emergency arises.
(Prior Code, § 2-4) (Ord. 494, passed - -; Ord. 703, passed - -)
§ 30.032 OFFICERS; MEETINGS; ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   The Planning Commission, at the first regular meeting of the calendar
year, shall elect its own Chairperson from among its members. The Commission
may create and fill such other offices as it may determine. A city employee
designated by the Mayor with Council approval, shall act as secretary of the
Planning and Zoning Commission, but he or she shall not be a member unless he
or she is appointed by the Council as its Commission member representative as
provided in §
30.031.
   (B)   When an application for Commission action is pending or there is other
business for the Commission to transact, the Commission shall hold a regular
monthly meeting. When there is no business to transact, the Chairman of the
Commission shall have the authority to cancel the monthly meeting provided that
no more than 65 days shall elapse between meetings of the Commission. It shall
adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions and findings, which record shall be a public record.
On or before January 1 of each year, the Commission shall submit to the City
Council a report of its work during the preceding year. Expenditures of the
Commission shall be within amounts appropriated for the purpose by the City
Council.
   (C)   Special meetings of the Planning and Zoning Commission may be called
by the Chairperson or by two members thereof by presenting written notification
to the City Administrator containing at least the following information:
      (1)   The name and position of the person(s) calling the meeting;
      (2)   The time and place of the proposed special meeting; and
      (3)   A request asking the City Administrator to give Commission members
proper legal notice of the proposed meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-5) (Ord. 494, passed - -; Ord. 513, passed - -; Ord. 712,
passed - -; Ord. 862, passed 10-26-2016; Ord. 863, passed 10-26-2016)
§ 30.033 PROGRAM OF WORK; ADOPTION.
   (A)   Upon the appointment and organization of the Commission, it shall
proceed with the preparation and adoption of resolution of a program of work,
outlining activities proposed to be undertaken in the exercise of its powers
and the performance of its duties. The program will include:
      (1)   An outline of data and information to be assembled as a basis of
the city plan;
      (2)   An outline of subjects to be covered by the city plan; and
      (3)   An outline of types of procedures necessary to make the city plan
effective.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may, by resolution, revise its
program of work from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 2-6) (Ord. 494, passed - -)
§ 30.034 COMPREHENSIVE CITY PLAN; PREPARATION; ADOPTION PROCEDURE;
EFFECTUATION.
   (A)   Preparation. It shall be the function and duty of the Planning and
Zoning Commission to prepare and adopt a comprehensive city plan for the
physical, economic and social development of the city, including, but not
limited to, proposed public buildings, street arrangements and improvements,
public utility services, parks, playgrounds and other similar developments, the
use of property, the density of population and other matters relating to the
development of the city. The comprehensive plan may also include a land use
plan, a community facilities plan, a transportation plan and recommendations
for plan execution. The plan may be prepared in sections, each of which shall
relate to a major subject of the plan or to a major geographical section of the
city as outlined in the Commission's program of work.
(Prior Code, § 2-7)
   (B)   Procedure for adoption.
      (1)   Before adopting the city plan or any section of it or any
substantial amendment thereof, the Commission shall hold at least one public
hearing thereon, notice of the time, place and purpose of which shall be given
by publication in the official city newspaper at least ten days before the day
of the hearing. The adoption of the city plan or any section or amendment
thereof shall be by resolution of the Commission, approved by a majority of all
the members of the Commission. The Commission may, from time to time, amend or
add to the city plan or section thereof as herein provided for the adoption of
the original plan whenever changed conditions or further studies by the
Commission indicate that the amendment or addition is necessary.
      (2)   An attested copy of the plan or of any section, amendment or
addition to the city plan adopted by the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
be certified to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
   (C)   Procedure for effectuation. Upon the adoption of the comprehensive
city plan or any section thereof, it shall be the duty of the Planning and
Zoning Commission to recommend to the City Council reasonable and practicable
means for putting into effect the plan or section thereof in order that the
same will serve as a pattern and guide for the orderly physical, economic and
social development of the city and as a basis for the efficient expenditure of
the funds thereof relating to the subjects of the city plan. The means shall
consist of zoning regulations, regulations for the control of subdivision
plats, an official map, coordination of the normal public improvements of the
city, a long-term program of capital expenditures and other matters as will
accomplish the purposes of this section.
(Prior Code, § 2-9)
(Ord. 494, passed - -)
§ 30.035 ZONING ORDINANCES; PROPOSAL.
   At any time after the adoption of a land use plan for the municipality, the
Planning and Zoning Commission, for the purpose of carrying out the policies
and goals of the land use plan, may and upon instructions by the City Council
shall prepare a proposed revised ordinance and submit it to the governing body
with its recommendations for adoption. No zoning ordinance or amendment thereto
shall be adopted by the Council until a public hearing has been held thereon by
the Planning and Zoning Commission after a notice similar to that required by §
30.034(B).
(Prior Code, § 2-10) (Ord. 494, passed - -)
§ 30.036 OFFICIAL MAP; PREPARATION.
   (A)   After adoption of a major thoroughfare plan and a community facilities
plan, the Planning and Zoning Commission, with the assistance of the City
Engineer, may and upon instructions by the City Council shall prepare an
official map of the platted and unplatted portions of the city and adjoining
territory, or portions thereof, indicating upon the map the land that is needed
for future street purposes and as sites for other necessary public facilities
and services within the city.
   (B)   After the map has been prepared, it shall be submitted to the Council,
which shall thereupon consider the map and may adopt it or any part of it with
amendments as it deems advisable. Before the adoption by the Council, a public
hearing shall be held upon the proposal at least ten days after a notice of the
time, place and purpose thereof has been published in the official city
newspaper. After the map has been adopted by the Council and filed with the
Register of Deeds, whenever any street or highway is widened or improved or any
new street is opened, or interests in land for other public purposes are
acquired by the municipalities, it is not required in the proceedings to pay
for any building or structure placed without a permit or in violation of
condition of the permit within the limits of the mapped street or outside of
any building line that may have been established upon the existing street or
within any area thus identified for public purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2-11) (Ord. 494, passed - -)
§ 30.037 PLAT SUBMITTED TO COMMISSION PRIOR TO COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   (A)   Every proposed plat of land within the city or within two miles of the
limits of the city and not within a town which itself requires the approval of
plats shall be submitted to the City Council before being filed and no plat of
land shall be filed unless and until the same shall first have been approved by
the City Council.
   (B)   Any person who violates this provision or who sells land or offers
land for sale or contracts for the sale of land by reference to or by other use
of any plat before the plat has been approved by the City Council in accordance
with the provisions of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished in accordance with the law.
   (C)   Before approving a plat, the City Council shall submit the same to the
Planning and Zoning Commission for its recommendations. The Planning and Zoning
Commission, within 30 days after any plat has been referred to it by the City
Council, shall act on the same and shall make its recommendations with respect
thereto. The recommendations may consist of:
      (1)   Recommendation that the City Council approve the plat;
      (2)   Recommendation that the City Council disapprove the plat, in which
case the recommendation shall include a statement of the specific reasons for
the recommendation; or
      (3)   Recommendation that the City Council approve the plat after
specified changes or revisions are made therein, which recommendations may
include the condition that a revised plat, containing the changes or revisions,
be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission, in which case the revised
plat shall be so submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its
further consideration and recommendations before action thereon by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-12) (Ord. 494, passed - -)
§ 30.038 AMENDMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   No change shall be made in the comprehensive city plan or any portion
thereof or regulations governing the platting of land after the plans or
regulations have been adopted by the City Council, until the proposed change
has been referred to the Planning and Zoning Commission for report thereon and
an attested copy of the report has been filed with the Council; and no
ordinance or resolution establishing any plans or regulations shall be adopted
by the City Council until the ordinance or resolution has been referred to the
Planning and Zoning Commission for a report thereon and an attested copy of the
report has been filed with the Council. Failure of the Planning and Zoning
Commission so to report within 40 days or a longer period as may be designated
by the Council after the reference shall be deemed to be approval of the
proposed change.
(Prior Code, § 2-13) (Ord. 494, passed - -)
§ 30.039 RECOMMENDED PUBLIC WORKS; LIST.
   Each officer, department, board or commission of or in the city whose
functions include recommending, preparing plans for, or constructing public
works shall, at least three months before the end of each fiscal year, submit
to the Planning and Zoning Commission a list of the proposed public works
recommended by the officer, department, board or commission for planning,
initiation or construction during the ensuing fiscal year. The Planning and
Zoning Commission shall request from the local school district a similar list
of its proposed public works. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall list and
classify all proposed public works and shall prepare a coordinated program of
proposed public works for the ensuing fiscal year. The program shall be
recommended by the Commission to the Council and to other officers,
departments, boards or public bodies as have jurisdiction over the
recommending, planning or constructing of the public works. A copy of the
recommended program of public works shall be included in the annual report of
the Planning and Zoning Commission provided for in §
30.032.
(Prior Code, § 2-14) (Ord. 494, passed - -)
§ 30.040 COMPLIANCE WITH PLAN.
   After a comprehensive municipal plan or section thereof has been recommended
by the planning agency and a copy filed with the governing body, no publicly-
owned interest in real property within the municipality shall be acquired or
disposed of, nor shall any capital improvement be authorized by the
municipality or special district or agency thereof or any other political
subdivision having jurisdiction within the municipality until after the
planning agency has reviewed the proposed acquisition, disposal or capital
improvement and reported in writing to the governing body or other special
district or agency or political subdivision concerned, its findings as to
compliance of the proposed acquisition, disposal or improvement with the
comprehensive municipal plan. Failure of the planning agency to report on the
proposal within 45 days after a reference, or other period as may be designated
by the governing body, shall be deemed to have satisfied the requirements of
this section. The governing body may, by resolution adopted by two-thirds vote,
dispense with the requirements of this section when, in its judgment, it finds
that the proposed acquisition or disposal of real property or capital
improvement has no relationship to the comprehensive municipal plan.
(Prior Code, § 2-15) (Ord. 494, passed - -)
CABLE COMMUNICATIONS ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 30.055 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A City Cable Communications Advisory Committee is hereby established. The
Cable Communications Advisory Committee shall report to the City Council
regarding matters relating to the cable communications system and franchise.
(Prior Code, § 27-1) (Ord. 751, passed - -)
§ 30.056 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERMS OF OFFICE; OATH.
   (A)   The Cable Communications Advisory Committee shall consist of five
members, all residents of the city. All members of the Committee shall be
appointed by the Mayor with City Council approval and the Council shall select
one member of the Board from among its members. Any member shall be
automatically terminated from the appointed position upon three consecutive
absences without due cause from regularly scheduled Cable Communications
Advisory Committee meetings.
   (B)   The members of the Cable Communications Advisory Committee shall serve
up to three consecutive three-year terms ending on January 1 of each year.
Successive appointees shall hold their offices until their successors are
appointed and qualified. Vacancies during the term shall be filled by the Mayor
with the approval of the City Council for the unexpired portion of the term.
Every appointed Board member shall, before entering upon the discharge of his
or her duties, take an oath that he or she will faithfully discharge the duties
of the office. All members shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 27-2) (Ord. 751, passed - -)
§ 30.057 OFFICERS AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Cable Communications Advisory Committee shall elect a Chairperson
from among its members. The Chairperson shall serve at the pleasure of the
Committee and the Committee may create and fill other offices as it may
determine.
   (B)   The Cable Communications Advisory Committee shall adopt rules for the
transaction of business at its meetings and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions and findings, which record shall be a public record.
(Prior Code, § 27-3) (Ord. 751, passed - -)
§ 30.058 VOTE.
   Each member of the Committee, including the Chairperson, shall have one vote
on all matters acted on by the Committee.
(Prior Code, § 27-4) (Ord. 751, passed - -)
§ 30.059 DUTIES.
   The Cable Communications Advisory Committee shall have the following powers
and duties:
   (A)   Monitor the performance of the cable company in carrying out the
provisions of its franchise both as to financial compliance and technical
compliance;
   (B)   Advise and make recommendations to the City Council regarding the
present and future use of the cable communications system within the city;
   (C)   Promote the use of the public access channel by increasing the public
awareness of its availability and potential by stimulating and promoting public
interest and participation therein;
   (D)   Attempt to enhance the quality of material or manner of presentation
of material on the public access channel;
   (E)   Submit an annual report to the city assessing the cable company's
performance according to the terms of the franchise and making recommendations
to the city regarding the apparent or likely need for upgrading the cable
communications system to meet the current state of the art; and
   (F)   Within 120 days prior to the expiration of the current cable
franchise, the Committee shall meet and confer with the cable company and
discuss any revised or additional provision needed in the franchise, including,
but not limited to, the subjects of: channel capacities; two-way capabilities;
expansion of existing services by the company; and any other subject relating
to the performance of the company's obligations under the franchise. During
this process, the Committee shall solicit the views of members of the public.
Thereafter, the Committee shall file a written report with the city with any
recommendations for change in the existing franchise. Following this review,
the Committee and the cable company shall meet and confer with the City Council
on the question of any changes in the franchise recommended by the Committee
report.
(Prior Code, § 27-5) (Ord. 751, passed - -)
§ 30.060 EFFECTIVITY.
   This subchapter shall be effective from and after the date of its
publication.
(Prior Code, § 27-6) (Ord. 751, passed - -)
LIBRARY BOARD
§ 30.075 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A City Library Board is hereby established. The Library Board shall report
to the City Council regarding the governance of the Kasson Public Library for
the sole purpose of documenting Board decisions and rulings in the Council
minutes of the city for audit purposes.
(Prior Code, § 26-1) (Ord. 706, passed - -)
§ 30.076 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERMS OF OFFICE; OATH.
   (A)   The Library Board shall consist of five members, to be appointed by
the Mayor, with Council approval. The Council may select one member of the
Board from among its own members. Any member shall be automatically terminated
from the appointed position upon three consecutive absences without due cause
from a regularly scheduled Library Board meeting.
   (B)   The Library Board of five members shall serve up to three consecutive
three-year terms ending on January 1 of each year. Successive appointees shall
hold their offices until their successors are appointed and qualified.
Vacancies during the term shall be filled by the Mayor with approval of the
Council for the unexpired portion of the term. Every appointed Board member
shall, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, take an oath
that he or she will faithfully discharge the duties of the office. All members
shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 26-2) (Ord. 706, passed - -; Ord. 765, passed - -)
§ 30.077 OFFICERS; MEETINGS; ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   The Board shall elect a Chairperson from among its appointed members.
The Chairperson shall serve at the pleasure of the Board and the Board may
create and fill such other offices as it may determine. The City Administrator
shall act as custodian of library funds appropriated for operation and
maintenance of the library facility. He or she shall provide the Director a
monthly report of receipts, disbursements, investments and budget comparison in
the same manner as for all other funds of the city.
   (B)   The Board shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall
keep a record of its resolutions, transactions and findings, which record shall
be a public record. Expenditures of the Board shall be within the amount
appropriated by the City Council through adoption of an annual library budget
and levy.
(Prior Code, § 26-3) (Ord. 706, passed - -)
§ 30.078 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Library Board shall have control of the expenditure of all monies
collected for or placed in the credit of the Library Fund and of all interest
earned on money within the Library Fund.
   (B)   The Library Board shall have control of the grounds, rooms and
building provided for library purposes.
   (C)   The Library Board, with the approval of the Council, may purchase
grounds and erect a library building thereon.
   (D)   The Library Board may accept any gift, grant, devise or bequest made
by any person.
   (E)   The Library Board will make an annual report to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 26-4) (Ord. 706, passed - -)
§ 30.079 DIRECTOR/LIBRARIAN; APPOINTMENT AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Library Board shall appoint a qualified Library Director and other
staff as necessary, establish compensation of employees in compliance with the
city's pay equity schedule and remove any of them for cause. The appointments
shall be reported to the City Council for payroll and audit purposes.
   (B)   The Director/Librarian shall have the responsibility for the day to
day administration of the library.
   (C)   The Director/Librarian shall recommend policies to the Board for
action.
   (D)   The Director/Librarian shall be responsible for personnel, financial
administration and public relations and is responsible for the overall quality
of the library service to the public.
(Prior Code, § 26-5) (Ord. 706, passed - -)
§ 30.080 PERSONNEL POLICY AND OPERATIONAL POLICY.
   (A)   The personnel policy of the Kasson Public Library shall be the city
employment policy.
   (B)   The Board may adopt such additional operational policies which pertain
specifically to the daily operations of the library. However, the operational
policies of the library shall not conflict with the city employment agency.
   (C)   The affirmative action policies developed by the city shall be
followed by the library in interviewing, hiring and developing personnel.
(Prior Code, § 26-6) (Ord. 706, passed - -)
§ 30.081 LIBRARY FUND.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish a Library Fund by annually budgeting
money for the library.
   (B)   The control of the Library Fund is granted to the Library Board.
   (C)   All real property given, granted, donated or bequeathed to the public
library shall be vested and held and in the name of the city.
(Prior Code, § 26-7) (Ord. 706, passed - -)
§ 30.082 CONFORMANCE TO STATUTE.
   The Board shall operate in conformance with M.S. Ch. 134, as may be amended
from time to time, and may cooperate with any regional library system that the
Board deems to provide the best services available to the city and surrounding
community.
(Prior Code, § 26-8) (Ord. 706, passed - -)
§ 30.083 EFFECTIVITY.
   This subchapter shall be effective from and after the date of its
publication.
(Prior Code, § 26-9) (Ord. 706, passed - -)
STAR CITY COMMISSION
§ 30.095 SHORT TITLE.
   The ordinance codified in this subchapter shall be known and may be recited
as "Kasson Star City Commission Ordinance".
(Prior Code, § 25-1) (Ord. 665, passed - -)
§ 30.096 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHAIRPERSON. The Chairperson of the Star City Commission as provided
hereunder.
   COMMISSION. The Star City Commission of the city as created by this
subchapter.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. The City Planning and Zoning Commission.
   SECRETARY. The Secretary of the Star City Commission as provided hereunder.
   VICE-CHAIRPERSON. The Vice-Chairperson of the Star City Commission as
provided hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 25-2) (Ord. 665, passed - -)
§ 30.097 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Star City Commission is established to be advisory to the Council and
Planning and Zoning Commission, which Star City Commission shall have the
powers and duties hereinafter set forth.
(Prior Code, § 25-3) (Ord. 665, passed - -)
§ 30.098 APPOINTMENT TO OFFICE.
   Members of the Commission shall continue their terms until new appointments
or reappointments are made by the City Council. Vacancies during the term of a
Commission member shall be filled by the City Council for the unexpired portion
of the term.
(Prior Code, § 25-4) (Ord. 665, passed - -)
§ 30.099 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   Any Star City Commission member shall be automatically terminated from the
appointed position upon three consecutive absences from a regularly scheduled
Star City Commission meeting without due cause. Advance notice of a members
inability to attend a regularly scheduled meeting must be received by the
Administrator’s office, by noon of the day prior to the meeting date unless an
unforseen emergency arises.
(Prior Code, § 25-5) (Ord. 665, passed - -; Ord. 705, passed - -)
§ 30.100 MEETINGS; OFFICERS.
   The Commission will name its own officers to serve at its pleasure from the
membership of the Commission.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The Commission shall meet publicly in regular
session at least once each month at a time and place selected by a majority of
its members.
   (B)   Special meetings. The Chairperson or any three members of the
Commission shall have the authority to call a special meeting of the
Commission. Written notice of special meetings shall be given to all members at
least 24 hours prior to the time of the meeting unless the time and place for
the special meeting is set at a regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 25-6) (Ord. 665, passed - -)
§ 30.101 COMMISSION STAFF.
   The Commission shall receive staff services of the City Administrator and
approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 25-7) (Ord. 665, passed - -)
§ 30.102 RULES AND PROCEDURE.
   The Commission shall adopt a set of rules to govern its own meetings and
procedures. The rules may be amended from time to time, but only upon notice to
all members that the proposed amendments shall be acted upon at a specified
meeting. A majority vote of the Commission shall be required for the approval
of the proposed amendment.
(Prior Code, § 25-8) (Ord. 665, passed - -)
§ 30.103 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To confer with and advise the Council and Planning and Zoning
Commission on all matters concerning the industrial and commercial development
of the city;
   (B)   To publicize, with the consent of the Council, the industrial and
commercial advantages and opportunities of the city;
   (C)   To collect data and information as to the type of industries and
commerce best suited to the city;
   (D)   To periodically survey the overall condition of the city from the
standpoint of determining whether the city has a community climate for industry
and to determine the general receptiveness of the city of the particular types
of industry;
   (E)   To publicize information as to the general advantages of industrial
and commercial development in a community;
   (F)   To cooperate with all industries and businesses in the city and in the
solution of any community problems which they may have and to encourage the
expansion, development and management of the industries and business so as to
promote the general welfare of the city;
   (G)   To cooperate with the Regional Development Commission in the
undertaking of necessary surveys and studies in the furtherance of commercial
and industrial development;
   (H)   To aid the Council and Planning and Zoning Commission in the proper
zoning and orderly development of areas suitable for industrial and commercial
development;
   (I)   To develop, compile, coordinate and publicize information such as, but
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Existing industrial and commercial concerns with the city, their
addresses, type of business, number of employees and whether each serves local,
regional or national markets;
      (2)   Available industrial and commercial sites, including number of
acres, approximate price, existing zoning and proximity to trackage and
highways;
      (3)   Available buildings for industrial and commercial operations,
including type of building, number of square feet, existing zoning and
proximity to trackage and highways;
      (4)   Transportation facilities, including railroads, motor carriers,
water transportation, air transportation and highway facilities;
      (5)   Electric power available;
      (6)   Fuels available for industrial and commercial use;
      (7)   Sewage disposal facilities;
      (8)   Water supply facilities;
      (9)   Community facilities such as fire, police and educational;
      (10)   Recreational facilities;
      (11)   Going wage rate in the city for the trades, skilled, semi-skilled
and white-collar workers;
      (12)   Availability of labor;
      (13)   General community attitude toward industrial and commercial
expansion, development and attraction; and
      (14)   Experience and program of surrounding suburban communities in
regard to industrial and commercial expansion, development and attraction.
   (J)   To recommend to the Council and Planning and Zoning Commission
policies and particular actions in regard to industrial and commercial
expansion development and attraction;
   (K)   To cooperate with and use the facilities of the State Department of
Trade and Economic Development's Star Cities Program; and
   (L)   The Commission shall have the power to appoint subcommittees of a size
and nature it may deem necessary and may enlist the aid of persons and/or
organizations who are not members of the Commission. The Commission shall have
no power to make contracts, levy taxes, borrow money or condemn property, but
shall have the full power and responsibility to investigate the necessity and
recommend the taking of these and any other actions related to the industrial
and commercial development by the Council and all other officers of the city
responsible to formulate the terms of and the procedure for taking the action.
(Prior Code, § 25-9) (Ord. 665, passed - -)
§ 30.104 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Commission shall make a report to the City Council of its activities in
January of each year.
(Prior Code, § 25-10) (Ord. 665, passed - -)
CHAPTER 31: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
   
31.01   Annual audit of city finances
   
31.02   Assessments; payment generally; allocation of part payment;
certification to County Auditor of remainder after part payment
   
31.03   Public Works Reserve Fund
Statutory reference:
   Audit of City Administrator’s office, see M.S. § 412.591
   Finance and taxation generally, see M.S. §§ 412.241 to 412.311
   Powers and duties of public examiner, see M.S. § 6.51
§ 31.01 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FINANCES.
   The City Council shall provide for an annual audit of the city financial
affairs by the public examiner or a public accountant in accordance with
minimum auditing procedures prescribed by the public examiner.
(Prior Code, § 8-1) (Ord. 436, passed - -)
§ 31.02 ASSESSMENTS; PAYMENT GENERALLY; ALLOCATION OF PART PAYMENT;
CERTIFICATION TO COUNTY AUDITOR OF REMAINDER AFTER PART PAYMENT.
   (A)   Assessments; payment generally. Whenever any assessment is levied
against any property in the city, payment of the assessment may be made to the
City Administrator in part or full at any time prior to certification of the
assessment to the County Auditor.
(Prior Code, § 8-2)
   (B)   Allocation of part payment. In the event that any assessment is paid
in part, the payment shall be applied first to the interest, if any has
accrued, and then to the principal.
(Prior Code, § 8-3)
   (C)   Certification to county auditor of remainder after part payment. The
remaining balance of any partially paid assessment shall then be certified to
the County Auditor in a manner as any full assessment.
(Prior Code, § 8-4)
(Ord. 455, passed - -)
§ 31.03 PUBLIC WORKS RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.S. § 471.57, as may be amended from time to time, there
is established a fund to be known as the Public Works Reserve Fund, which shall
be used for capital improvements.
   (B)   There shall be accumulated in the Public Works Reserve Fund:
      (1)   The proceeds of any taxes levied for its support;
      (2)   Fund earnings; and
      (3)   Other revenues as may be directed by the Council to be placed in
the Fund and which are not required by statute to be paid into some other fund
or used for other purposes.
   (C)   In authorizing additions to the Fund from time to time, the Council
may stipulate that such additions or portions thereof shall be used for
specific projects or types of improvements and there shall be no diversion from
the designated purpose unless approved by the voters according to law.
   (D)   The money in the established Fund shall be invested temporarily in
obligations in which investment of municipal funds is authorized by M.S. §
475.66, as amended by Laws 1965, Ch. 300, and as may be amended from time to
time.
(Prior Code, § 8-5) (Ord. 539, passed - -)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCIES
Section
Emergency Help to Other Jurisdictions
   
32.01   Authority to send work crews
   
32.02   FEMA reimbursement
EMERGENCY HELP TO OTHER JURISDICTIONS
§ 32.01 AUTHORITY TO SEND WORK CREWS.
   (A)   Generally. The City Administrator or the Public Works Director may
authorize the sending of work crews of not fewer than two persons, trucks and
equipment from the Public Works Department to other jurisdictions affected by
natural disasters and other emergency situations.
(Prior Code, § 18.3-1)
   (B)   Within 65 miles from city limits. The City Administrator or the Public
Works Director may, upon notice to the Mayor, authorize the sending of work
crews to jurisdictions affected by natural disasters and other emergency
situations; provided that, the jurisdictions are located not more than 65 miles
from the corporate city limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 18.3-2)
   (C)   Restrictions generally. The City Administrator or the Public Works
Director may only authorize the sending of emergency crews, trucks and
equipment to neighboring jurisdictions if essential city operations will not be
impaired.
(Prior Code, § 18.3-3)
(Ord. 758, passed - -)
§ 32.02 FEMA REIMBURSEMENT.
   If the city receives reimbursement for the sending of volunteer assistance
to jurisdictions qualifying for Federal Emergency Management Assistance (FEMA),
the city may refund the reimbursement to the jurisdiction affected by the
emergency for its use in its recovery efforts.
(Prior Code, § 18.3-4) (Ord. 758, passed - -)
CHAPTER 33: EMPLOYMENT BACKGROUND CHECKS
Section
   
33.01   Applicants for city employment
   
33.02   Applicants for city licenses
§ 33.01 APPLICANTS FOR CITY EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to Minnesota's Computerized
Criminal Historic information for specified non-criminal purposes of employment
background checks for employees and candidates for employment.
   (B)   Criminal history employment background investigations. The Police
Department is hereby required, as the exclusive entity within the city, to do a
criminal history background investigation on the applicants for the following
positions within the city, unless the city's hiring authority concludes that a
background investigation is not needed:
      (1)   Employment positions.  Candidates selected for interviews for all
part time and full time positions, except those positions already authorized
and covered by M.S. § 626.87, Subd. 1, sworn police positions, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (2)   The city shall not obtain all of the criminal data authorized under
the Child Protection Background Check Act, M.S. §§ 299C.61 and 299C.62, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in order
to screen employment applicants, the Police Department is authorized to access
data maintained in the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehensions Computerized
Criminal History information system in accordance with BCA policy. Any data
that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at the Police Department
under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement official or his or her
designee. A summary of the results of the Computerized Criminal History data
may be released by the Police Department to the hiring authority, including the
City Council, the City Administrator or other city staff involved in the hiring
process.
   (D)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must authorize
the Police Department by written consent to undertake the investigation. The
written consent must fully comply with the provisions of M.S. Ch. 13, as it may
be amended from time to time, regarding the collection, maintenance and use of
the information. Except for the positions set forth in M.S. § 364.09, as it may
be amended from time to time, the city will not reject an applicant for
employment on the basis of the applicant's prior conviction unless the crime is
directly related to the position of employment sought and the conviction is for
a felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the city
rejects the applicant's request on this basis, the city shall notify the
applicant in writing of the following:
      (1)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
      (2)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in M.S. §
364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (3)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment; and
      (4)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
(Ord. 846, passed 11-14-2012)
§ 33.02 APPLICANTS FOR CITY LICENSES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to Minnesota's Computerized
Criminal History information for specified non-criminal purposes of licensing
background checks.
   (B)   Criminal history license background investigations. The Police
Department is hereby required, as the exclusive entity within the city, to
conduct a criminal history background investigation on the applicants for the
following licenses within the city including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Alcoholic beverages;
      (2)   Amusements;
      (3)   Peddlers, solicitors and itinerant merchants;
      (4)   Adult establishments;
      (5)   Taxicabs; and
      (6)   Rental housing;
   (C)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in order
to screen license applicants, the Police Department is authorized to access
data maintained in the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehensions Computerized
Criminal History information system in accordance with BCA policy. Any data
that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at the Police Department
under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement official or his or her
designee. A summary of the results of the Computerized Criminal History data
may be released by the Police Department to the licensing authority, including
the City Council, the City Administrator or other city staff involved the
license approval process.
   (D)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must authorize
the Police Department by written consent to undertake the investigation. The
written consent must fully comply with the provisions of M.S. Ch. 13, as it may
be amended from time to time, regarding the collection, maintenance and use of
the information. Except for the positions set forth in M.S. § 364.09, as it may
be amended from time to time, the city will not reject an applicant for a
license on the basis of the applicant's prior conviction unless the crime is
directly related to the license sought and the conviction is for a felony,
gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the city rejects the
applicant's request on this basis, the city shall notify the applicant in
writing of the following:
      (1)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
      (2)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in M.S. §
364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (3)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment; and
      (4)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
(Ord. 846, passed 11-14-2012)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   PUBLIC WORKS GENERALLY
         
51.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
         
52.   STORM SEWER UTILITY
         
53.   WATER AND SEWERS
         
54.   ELECTRICITY AND NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
         
55.   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
CHAPTER 50: PUBLIC WORKS GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Specifications
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Subdivisions
   
50.04   Financing
   
50.05   Amendments
   
50.06   Conflicting provisions
Construction Standards
   
50.20   Generally
   
50.21   Water mains and wells
   
50.22   Sewer mains
   
50.23   Service connections
   
50.24   Sidewalks and boulevards
   
50.25   Streets
   
50.26   Drainage
   
50.27   Connection of sump pump systems to storm sewer or drain tile lines
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city relative to public works generally, see M.S. § 412.221(6),
(7), (11), (18)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 SPECIFICATIONS.
   The following specifications shall apply to all public works constructed in
the city:
   (A)   The State Department of Transportation, Standard Specifications for
Highway Construction; and
   (B)   Standard Utilities Specifications, City Engineer Association of
Minnesota.
(Prior Code, § 18.1-1) (Ord. 556, passed - -; Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   All definitions, terms and abbreviations listed in Standard Specifications
for Highway Construction shall apply with the following amendments.
   (A)   The words COMMISSIONER, DEPARTMENT and CONTRACTING AUTHORITY shall be
construed to mean the city.
   (B)   The word ENGINEER shall refer to the City Engineer or his or her
authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 18.1-2) (Ord. 556, passed - -; Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 50.03 SUBDIVISIONS.
   All platting and all subdividing of lands within the city shall be done in
accordance with
Chapter 153 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 18.1-3) (Ord. 556, passed - -; Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 50.04 FINANCING.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Petition for improvements. All petitions for improvements shall be
made no later than January 31 of the year the improvements are to be
constructed.
      (2)   Petition and waiver. When improvements are to be constructed in new
developments, the City Council may require the developer to sign a petition and
waiver, the form of which may be found on file in the office of the
Administrator.
      (3)   Hearing. All hearings, as outlined in state statutes and city
ordinances, shall be held as required.
   (B)   In undeveloped lands. UNDEVELOPED LAND is defined as all areas in the
city that are open without any infrastructure improvements, and where the land
is usually owned by a developer. In undeveloped lands, public improvements may
be installed by the city and assessed to the benefitted property (public
financing), or  may be financed by the property owner or owners (private
financing). The City Council shall make the final decision as to which method
of financing will be used.
      (1)   Public financing. In this method of financing, all public
improvements will be installed by the city and the costs paid in the following
manner.
         (a)   All storm drainage costs will be assessed to the development on
a per lot basis.
         (b)   All sanitary sewer and water main construction costs will be
assessed on a per front foot basis.
         (c)   All service line construction costs will be paid by the city and
assessed on a per unit basis.
         (d)   All street construction costs, including grading, base, curb and
gutter and surfacing, will be assessed on a per foot basis.
         (e)   Trunk line sewer and water main construction costs will be
assessed to the benefitted property on a per lot basis.
         (f)   All assessments shall be made over a period of 15 years, with a
simple interest charge to be set by the City Council.
         (g)   No assessments will be deferred.
         (h)   Electrical power lines and transformers shall be installed by
the city. The cost of power lines and transformers will be shared by and
between the city and the owner/developer. The cost of electrical power lines
and transformers to owners/developers shall be set by resolution of the City
Council. The city shall furnish and install the meter. The owner/developer
shall furnish the service line wire, trench and electric meter socket, which
shall comply with the following specifications:
            1.   Meter socket specifications: Milbank 100 amp U7487XL or
equivalent 200 amp U7040XL or equivalent;
            2.   Service wire specifications: 100 - 150 amps, 2/0 conductor;
and (200 amps and services longer than 200 feet or special requirements: 4/
0 conductor.)
            3.   Trenching. Depth according to State Electrical Code for
electric services. Warning tape above service line. Upon occupancy of the
property, it will be the owner’s responsibility to maintain the service line to
the house. Prior to the installation of any temporary or permanent electrical
connections, the owner/developer shall pay the appropriate fee to the City
Administrator’s office together with building permit fees and other applicable
charges for obtaining the building permit.
         (i)   The front footage of irregular lots shall be defined as the area
of the lot divided by the average lot depth of the rectangular lots in that
subdivision.
         (j)   The property owner or developer shall place in escrow a sum of
money equal to 10% of the estimated construction costs. The sum shall be
refunded after the first year's special assessments have been paid on the
public improvement. With City Council approval, an "irrevocable letter of
credit" may be substituted for the escrowed money.
         (k)   The owner of any property so assessed may, at any time prior to
certification of the assessment to the County Auditor, pay to the City
Administrator the whole of the assessment on the property, or he or she may
make a partial payment pursuant to the ordinance providing therefor, with
interest accrued to the date of the payment, and thereafter interest is accrued
on the remaining balance of the partially prepaid assessment; except that, no
interest shall be charged if the entire assessment is paid within 30 days from
the adoption of the assessment.
         (l)   Where a valid petition and waiver agreement is in place, the
City Council may offer to accept interest only payments for three years in
order to facilitate development.
      (2)   Private financing. This method of financing shall be used in the
following manner: all work shall be performed at the sole expense of the
developer or property owner and in accordance with plans, specifications and
contract conditions approved by the city. The contractor/developer/property
owner shall place in escrow a sum of money equal to the estimated construction
cost or may provide the city with an irrevocable letter of credit equal to the
total cost of the project in lieu of the escrowed funds. The developer or
property owner shall enter into a contract with the city, the form of which may
be found on file in the office of the Administrator. This contract shall
include provisions for inspection of construction by the City Engineer or his
or her authorized representative.
      (3)   Assessment. In the case of partial reconstruction of a street or
construction of a limited number of infrastructure items in developed areas or
in areas that are a mixture of developed land and undeveloped land, the city
shall assess the benefitted properties on a case by case basis.
(Prior Code, § 18.1-4) (Ord. 556, passed - -; Ord. 627, passed - -; Ord. 652,
passed - -; Ord. 682, passed 2-17-1993; Ord. 684, passed 5-19-1993; Ord. 685,
passed - -; Ord. 748, passed - -; Ord. 761, passed - -; Ord. 778, passed - -;
Ord. 865, passed 11-22-2016)
§ 50.05 AMENDMENTS.
   On recommendation of the City Planning and Zoning Commission, by its own
motion, or upon petitions, the Council may cause to be prepared amendments
supplementing or changing the regulations herein established. All proposed
amendments shall be submitted to the Council for adoption in accordance with
established procedures.
(Prior Code, § 18.1-5) (Ord. 556, passed - -; Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 50.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   Whenever any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions which are more
restrictive than those imposed by provisions of existing laws or ordinances,
the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 18.1-6) (Ord. 556, passed - -; Ord. 748, passed - -)
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 50.20 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All plans for public works in the city shall be approved by the City
Engineer and the City Council.
   (B)   The City Engineer shall be a civil engineer registered with the state.
   (C)   All level and grade information shown on construction plans shall be
expressed in terms of mean sea level elevation as established by U.S.C.G.S.
   (D)   All assessment rolls shall be prepared by the City Administrator, with
the assistance of the City Engineer.
   (E)   The construction of public works in the city, including sidewalks,
curbs and service connections, shall be performed by city forces, forces under
contract with the city or persons or firms having a permit to work on public
property.
   (F)   The City Engineer shall coordinate the use of public property and
rights-of-way by public utility companies.
(Prior Code, § 18.1-8) (Ord. 556, passed - -; Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 50.21 WATER MAINS AND WELLS.
   (A)   All additions to the water system in the city shall generally conform
to the standards of the A.W.W.A., Great Lakes & Upper Mississippi River Board
of State Sanitary Engineers, and shall be approved by the State Department of
Health.
   (B)   All mains shall be placed at a depth of not less than seven feet below
the final ground or street surface.
   (C)   All fire hydrants shall be equipped with two two and one-half inch
hose nozzles with national standard threads (No. 7532) and one four and one-
half inch pumper nozzle with national standard threads (No. 40524).
   (D)   All extensions to the water system shall be approved by the State
Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 18.1-9) (Ord. 556, passed - -; Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 50.22 SEWER MAINS.
   (A)   All sewer main construction shall generally conform to accepted
engineering practice and to M.P.CA. and E.P.A. design standards.
   (B)   All sewer main extensions shall be approved by the state pollution
control agency.
   (C)   All sewer mains shall be constructed at a grade of not less than 0.4%.
   (D)   All sewer main and service line construction shall meet the air test
requirements as defined in the specifications.
   (E)   All sewer mains shall be constructed of a P.V.C. material conforming
to A.S.T.M.D. 3034, SDR 35.
(Prior Code, § 18.1-10) (Ord. 556, passed - -; Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 50.23 SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The material used in service connections shall be as follows: water,
type "K" copper; sanitary sewer, cast iron standard weight or ductile iron;
subdrain, P.V.C.
   (B)   The minimum sizes for service lines shall be as follows: water, three-
fourths inch for single unit residential, as required by the State Plumbing
Code for other than single unit residential; sanitary sewer, four-inch for one-
and two-unit residential, as required by the State Plumbing Code for other than
one- and two-unit residential; subdrain, four inch.
   (C)   A separate service line shall be constructed to each individual lot or
parcel in the city.
   (D)   The property owner shall be responsible for the maintenance of the
service connection from the building to the main.
   (E)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to fit and equip
the water service connection with a curb box, which shall be located, whenever
possible, in the boulevard adjacent to each lot or parcel. When the water curb
box cannot be located in a boulevard adjacent to each lot or parcel, the curb
box shall be placed in another location, to be approved by the city. The water
curb box shall be constructed in keeping with the State Plumbing Code. The top
of the curb box shall be level with the finish grade. No permanent improvements
shall be placed over the water curb box.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall furnish the meter for all new construction
electrical connections. The owner/developer shall furnish trenching and shall
provide the meter socket and service wire, which shall comply with city
specifications available in the office of the City Administrator and the City
Electrical Supervisor. The city shall supply the pole for connection of an
overhead electric service line. All connections shall be made under the
supervision of the Public Utility Department.
      (2)   The city shall furnish power to a pedestal or transformer upon
completion of the original installation, but shall not be responsible for
repair and/or maintenance of electrical service lines thereafter. The owner/
developer shall be responsible for dealing with all obstacles or obstructions
including, but not limited to, trees, shrubs, bushes and storage buildings. The
city shall be responsible for boulevard trees which interfere with electrical
lines.
      (3)   A fee shall be paid to the city upon request by the owner/developer
for installation of any temporary or permanent electrical hookup. The fee shall
be set by resolution of the City Council. Upon receipt by the Administrator’s
office of the appropriate fee, the Public Utility Department shall be notified
to install the temporary and/or permanent connection.
(Prior Code, § 18.1-11) (Ord. 556, passed - -; Ord. 613, passed - -; Ord. 748,
passed - -; Ord. 865, passed 11-22-2016)
§ 50.24 SIDEWALKS AND BOULEVARDS.
   Sidewalk improvements shall be constructed and financed in compliance with
the sidewalk ordinance in effect at the time of construction.
   (A)   All sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete with a minimum
thickness of four inches, a minimum width of four feet.
   (B)   Sidewalks in residential areas shall be located on the public right-
of-way one foot from the property line. Sidewalks in commercial and industrial
areas may be located immediately behind the curb.
   (C)   All sidewalks shall be constructed under the supervision of the city.
   (D)   The use of boulevards shall generally be reserved for trees, sidewalks
and utilities. Any other use shall be approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 18.1-12) (Ord. 556, passed - -; Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 50.25 STREETS.
   (A)   All streets shall generally be constructed to State Department of
Transportation standards.
   (B)   Residential streets shall be at least 36 feet in width and shall have
a minimum axle capacity of seven tons. Arterial streets shall be at least 44
feet in width and shall have a minimum axle capacity of nine tons.
   (C)   Curb and gutter in residential areas shall be the drive over type. The
City Council may elect to use M/DOT B-624 curb and gutter upon request of the
property owners. The type of curb and gutter shall be the same in any one
block. Curb and gutter in commercial areas shall be the M/DOT B-624 type.
   (D)   Ramps and other devices as recommended by the State Building Code
shall be installed on all new street construction.
(Prior Code, § 18.1-13) (Ord. 556, passed - -; Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 50.26 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   The design of storm drainage systems in the city shall generally
conform to the standards outlined in the current State Department of
Transportation Drainage Manual and to accepted engineering practice.
   (B)   Storm sewer systems shall be designed to accommodate a flow of not
less than a Q5.
   (C)   Materials for drainage systems shall meet all state department of
transportation requirements.
   (D)   A subdrain system shall be installed in all areas where possible. A
SUBDRAIN SYSTEM is defined as an underground drainage system designed to reduce
or eliminate the presence of excessive amounts of ground water.
   (E)   The hydraulic capacity of all natural waterways shall be substantially
maintained and in no case shall their capacity be reduced below a Q100 flow.
All state and federal flood regulations shall be complied with.
   (F)   The provisions of
Chapter 53 of this code shall be strictly adhered to in the design,
construction and maintenance of all drainage works.
(Prior Code, § 18.1-14) (Ord. 556, passed - -; Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 50.27 CONNECTION OF SUMP PUMP SYSTEMS TO STORM SEWER OR DRAIN TILE LINES.
   (A)   All new homes equipped with foundation drainlines and sump pump wells
shall be connected to the city storm sewer or to the city drain tile lines
where available. The connection of sump pump systems to the city storm sewer or
drain tile line system shall be made pursuant to specifications which are on
file in the office of the Administrator of the city.
   (B)   The appropriate city staff person shall inspect the connection of sump
pump systems to the city storm system or drain tile line systems. An inspection
fee at a rate set annually by resolution of the City Council shall be paid at
the time the building permit for a new home is issued.
(Prior Code, § 18.1-15) (Ord. 729, passed - -; Ord. 748, passed - -; Ord. 762,
passed - -)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 18.1-7) (Ord. 556, passed - -; Ord. 748, passed - -)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Weed Inspector
   
51.02   Open areas
Collection and Disposal Generally
   
51.20   Precollection practices; preparation of refuse
   
51.21   Refuse containers
   
51.22   Disposal generally
   
51.23   Construction wastes
   
51.24   Hazardous refuse
   
51.25   Garbage disposal units
   
51.26   Transportation of refuse
   
51.27   Open burning
Collectors
   
51.40   License required
   
51.41   Application
   
51.42   Term
   
51.43   Fees
   
51.44   Issuance and display
   
51.45   Revocation or suspension
   
51.46   Vehicles
   
51.47   Regulations generally
Cross-reference:
   Air pollution regulations, see §
95.40
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
   Water and Sewers, see
Ch. 53
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to regulate garbage and refuse disposal, see M.S. §
412.221(22)
   Rubbish disposal generally, see M.S. §§ 443.015 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 WEED INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be designated the Weed Inspector and may appoint one
or more assistant Weed Inspectors, who shall have the same power, authority and
responsibility of the Mayor in the capacity of Weed Inspector.
   (B)   Local Weed Inspectors shall examine all lands, including highways,
roads and alleys, to determine the existence of noxious and other weeds and
shall issue directives to the property owner as to proper prevention and
eradication methods.
   (C)   An Assistant Weed Inspector shall be the Public Works Director who
shall be compensated at the regular rate of pay for the Public Works Director
position.
(Prior Code, § 10-1) (Ord. 769, passed - -; Ord. 784, passed - -)
§ 51.02 OPEN AREAS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   All open areas and parts of premises shall be maintained and kept
in a reasonably clean and neat condition. This requirement shall include, but
not be limited to, the removal of dead trees, brush and weeds, garbage and
refuse, the removal of inoperable machines, appliances, fixtures and equipment
so damaged, deteriorated or obsolete as to have no substantial value and which
constitute junk; the removal of lumber piles and building materials not being
used in actual construction on the premises unless the premises are being used
by a business dealing in or requiring the use of the lumber and materials; and
the removal of tin cans, broken glass, broken furniture, mattresses, box
springs, boxes, crates, cardboard, tires and other debris. Except as part of a
managed natural landscape as defined in § 150.02, any weeds or tall grass
growing upon any lot or parcel of land in the city to a height greater than
eight inches are hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the health,
safety and good order of the city.
      (2)   Any accumulations harboring vermin. Accumulations in the open of
discarded or disused machinery, household appliances, automobiles bodies, or
other material, in a manner conducive to the harboring of rats, mice, snakes,
or vermin of any kind, or the rank growth of vegetation among the items so
accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or safety hazards from such
accumulation are hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the health,
safety and good order of the city.
      (3)   Managed natural landscapes may include plants and grasses in excess
of eight inches in height and that have gone to seed, but may not include any
noxious weeds and must be maintained. Managed natural landscapes do not include
turf-grass lawns left unattended for the purpose of returning to a natural
state.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall restrict the activities of duly
established and licensed junk yards.
   (B)   Nonconforming motor vehicles.
      (1)   MOTOR VEHICLE means every vehicle which is self-propelled.
      (2)   No person shall place, park, permit to remain, store or leave upon
an open space area of any premises any motor vehicle unless it conforms with
all of the following requirements.
         (a)   The vehicle must have affixed to it a valid current motor
vehicle license.
         (b)   The vehicle must not lack essential parts that would render it
inoperable.
         (c)   The vehicle must not be in a rusted, wrecked, partially
dismantled or junked condition.
      (3)   If a motor vehicle fails to meet any of the above requirements, the
owner or possessor of the motor vehicle shall be responsible to remove the
motor vehicle to a duly licensed junkyard or other authorized place of deposit
or storage within five working days of a demand by the city. In the event the
owner or possessor of the motor vehicle cannot be located, then it shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the premises to remove the motor vehicle to a
duly licensed junkyard or other authorized place of deposit or storage within
five working days of a demand by the city.
   (C)   Violations a public health hazard. A person in violation of divisions
(A) or (B) above of this section shall be deemed to have created in the city a
public health hazard, which is subject to abatement by the city as provided in
division (D) below.
   (D)   Abatement procedure.
      (1)   If the owner or occupant thereof fails within five days after
posting by first class mail of a notice to abate a public health hazard
contained on any property, the city by and through its authorized personnel may
enter upon the property and abate the public health hazard by any reasonable
means, including contracting with a private person to do so.
      (2)   Any expenses incurred by the city in the abatement of a public
health hazard under this section shall be the responsibility of the property
owner and, if subsequently unpaid, may be assessed against the property as
provided in M.S. § 429.101, as may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 10-1.1) (Ord. 752, passed - -; Ord. 6.1-23, passed 6-14-2023;
Ord. 10.1-23, passed 10-11- 2023)
COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL GENERALLY
§ 51.20 PRECOLLECTION PRACTICES; PREPARATION OF REFUSE.
   Person accumulating garbage, rubbish or refuse shall comply with the
following precollections procedures. Commercial establishments handling big
cardboard boxes, wooden crates or similar items which cannot be placed in
containers, as defined in §
51.21, shall keep the items indoors on an impervious surface or outdoors in
fixed large metallic containers which are easily drained and so located as to
be easily unloaded by the collector. The containers shall be kept covered at
all times.
(Prior Code, § 10-2) (Ord. 752, passed - -)
§ 51.21 REFUSE CONTAINERS.
   Refuse containers shall conform to the following regulations.
   (A)   Construction. All refuse containers shall be equipped with suitable
handles and tight-fitting covers and shall be water-tight and vermin proof.
   (B)   Conditions. Refuse containers shall be kept by the responsible tenant
in a neat, clean and sanitary condition so as to prevent insect breeding,
nuisances and unsightly conditions. The containers shall be in good repair and
free of ragged or sharp edges or other defects likely to injure or hamper the
person using or collecting the contents thereof.
   (C)   Replacement. Any refuse container which does not conform to the
provisions of this chapter shall be promptly replaced with a proper container
by the responsible tenant or collector supplying the container. Failure to
replace the improper container within ten days after receipt of written notice
from the City Administrator’s office to do so shall constitute a violation of
this chapter and shall subject the responsible tenant or collector to the
penalties provided therefor.
   (D)   Location; identification. All refuse containers shall be kept as near
the rear of the premises as practicable, at the alley if there be an alley at
the place, and shall be located so as to be easily accessible to the collector.
The containers shall be kept above the ground or on an impervious surface. Each
container shall bear the number of the property address or the name of the
commercial establishment for the purpose of enabling the collector to return
the container to the property and to correctly identify violators.
(Prior Code, § 10-3) (Ord. 752, passed - -)
§ 51.22 DISPOSAL GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect, transport or dispose of
refuse, except a responsible tenant with respect to his or her own refuse, a
contractor with respect to his or her own construction waste and a collector
licensed by the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-4) (Ord. 752, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.23 CONSTRUCTION WASTES.
   (A)   Construction wastes may be disposed of by the builder, contractor or
person responsible therefor without a license or permit in a vehicle normally
used for that purpose; provided that, when the construction wastes include
paper or other material likely to scatter, the vehicle shall be enclosed or
covered in a manner which will prevent the scattering.
   (B)   A licensed collector is not required to remove construction wastes
which have not been stored, as provided in §
51.20, or which are in excess of the quantity agreed to be removed, unless
separate arrangements therefor have been made.
(Prior Code, § 10-5) (Ord. 752, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.24 HAZARDOUS REFUSE.
   No hazardous refuse such as radioactive materials, drugs, poisons,
infectious wastes and similar materials shall be picked up by licensed
collectors, but shall be stored and transported by the owners or the person
responsible therefor to the county disposal area and disposed of in the manner
prescribed by the County Environmental Quality Office.
(Prior Code, § 10-6) (Ord. 752, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.25 GARBAGE DISPOSAL UNITS.
   Household food wastes may be disposed of by means of garbage disposal units
which discharge ground garbage into the sewage system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-7) (Ord. 752, passed - -)
§ 51.26 TRANSPORTATION OF REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to haul or transport refuse over or upon
any public street, alley or public grounds, unless it is hauled or transported
in a tightly covered vehicle or container, so constructed that the refuse
cannot fall out or be scattered in transit.
(Prior Code, § 10-8) (Ord. 752, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.27 OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall dispose of refuse by open burning or cause, suffer, allow or
permit open burning of refuse in the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-9) (Ord. 752, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
COLLECTORS
§ 51.40 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring to engage in the business of collecting refuse in the
city shall first obtain a collector's license from the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-10) (Ord. 752, passed - -)
§ 51.41 APPLICATION.
   All applications for a collector’s license shall be addressed to the City
Council and shall be made on application forms provided by the City
Administrator. The applications shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   A complete description of each vehicle to be used in connection with
the collection, including the make, model and year of the chassis and the make,
model and capacity of the body;
   (C)   The name and address of each employee of the applicant, together with
his or her chauffeur's license number, when applicable;
   (D)   A general description of the territory in which the applicant is
operating or proposes to operate;
   (E)   A statement of the applicant's insurance coverage, including the name
of the insurance company and its local agent;
   (F)   The location of the off-street parking facilities to be used by the
applicant for parking his or her vehicles when not in operation; and
   (G)   Other information as the City Administrator or Health Officer may
require.
(Prior Code, § 10-11) (Ord. 752, passed - -)
§ 51.42 TERM.
   Each collector's license granted by the City Council shall expire on March
31 following its issuance.
(Prior Code, § 10-12) (Ord. 752, passed - -)
§ 51.43 FEES.
   The license fee for each collector's license shall be based upon the number
of vehicles to be used in the collection of refuse and shall be set by
resolution of the City Council each year. The total amount of the license fee
must accompany the application for a license. In the event a collector
terminates his or her business or his or her license is canceled by the City
Council, no refund of the license fee or any portion thereof shall be made. In
the event a licensed collector sells or transfers his or her vehicles to
another or new collector, no additional fee shall be charged for the remainder
of the license period.
(Prior Code, § 10-13) (Ord. 752, passed - -)
§ 51.44 ISSUANCE AND DISPLAY.
   Whenever a collector’s license is granted by the City Council, the license
shall be issued by the City Administrator and signed by the Mayor. Each license
and certificate of license shall specify the type of refuse to be collected by
each vehicle covered.
(Prior Code, § 10-14) (Ord. 752, passed - -)
§ 51.45 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   The City Council may revoke or suspend any collector's license for cause.
Action revoking or suspending a collector's license shall be taken only after a
hearing before the City Council upon at least ten-days' written notice to the
collector.
(Prior Code, § 10-15) (Ord. 752, passed - -)
§ 51.46 VEHICLES.
   All vehicles to be used in refuse collection shall conform to the following
rules and regulations.
   (A)   Construction garbage. The bodies of all vehicles to be used for the
collection of refuse containing garbage shall be of metal construction and
shall be fully enclosed. The bodies of the vehicles shall be so constructed,
maintained and equipped that refuse cannot leak, spill or escape in any way
from the vehicles. All vehicles shall have packer-type bodies.
   (B)   Commercial rubbish. The bodies of all vehicles used for the collection
of commercial rubbish shall be so constructed and enclosed that the refuse
cannot spill or escape in any way from the vehicles.
   (C)   Cleanliness; odors. All vehicles used in the collection of refuse
shall be cleaned in a manner and at intervals as to keep the vehicles free of
offensive odor.
   (D)   Standing on street; parking. No vehicle used for the collection of
refuse shall be allowed to stand on any street, alley or public ground for any
period of time longer than is reasonably necessary to make collection; and all
refuse shall be hauled away and disposed of promptly following its collection.
Each collector shall provide off-street parking facilities in an area not zoned
or used for residential purposes, where vehicles used by him or her for the
collection of refuse shall be parked or stored when not in actual operation.
   (E)   Control of hazardous equipment. All hazardous equipment such as
packer-type bodies shall be attended while in operation.
(Prior Code, § 10-16) (Ord. 752, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.47 REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Insurance. Each licensed collector shall have and keep in force at all
times public liability insurance covering each vehicle used by him or her for
refuse collection. The limits of the insurance coverage on each vehicle shall
be minimum for bodily injury and minimum for property damage as regulated by
the state statute. Each insurance policy shall name the city as an insured and
shall provide that the policy cannot be canceled, except upon ten-days' written
notice to the city.
   (B)   Frequency and time of collections. The collection of refuse from
residences shall be made at least once every two weeks and from commercial
establishments at least once weekly. All collections shall be made between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. All such collections shall not be made on
Sundays or the following holidays unless authorized by the Health Officer: New
Year's Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving and
Christmas.
   (C)   Employees. Each collector shall employ clean, courteous and competent
employees at all times and shall investigate all complaints about employees,
equipment and service. Whenever a complaint is referred to a collector by the
City Administrator’s office, a written report shall be made by the collector to
the City Administrator’s office setting forth the investigation, findings and
action on the complaint.
   (D)   Removal of refuse for fee. Each collector shall remove refuse from
premises not served by him or her for regular refuse collection upon request of
the responsible tenant, at a reasonable charge; provided that, the removal is
within the capabilities of the employees and equipment.
   (E)   Collection during emergency and the like. Whenever an emergency or
unforeseen or extraordinary condition arises, the City Administrator’s office
may order the collection of refuse at the times and in the manner as the
circumstances require; and each collector shall abide by the order of the City
Administrator’s office.
(Prior Code, § 10-17) (Ord. 752, passed - -)
CHAPTER 52: STORM SEWER UTILITY
Section
   
52.01   Storm sewer system; statutory authority
   
52.02   Findings and determinations
   
52.03   Rates and charges
   
52.04   Adjustments of charges
   
52.05   Excluded lands
   
52.06   Supplying information
   
52.07   Estimated charges
   
52.08   Billing and collections
   
52.09   Penalties and remedies for delinquency or default in paying billings
   
52.10   Use of revenues
   
52.11   Development fees
§ 52.01 STORM SEWER SYSTEM; STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   M.S. § 444.075, as may be amended from time to time, authorizes cities to
impose just and reasonable charges for the use and availability of storm sewer
facilities ("charges"). By this section, the city elects to exercise the
authority.
(Prior Code, § 28.2-1) (Ord. 808, passed - -)
§ 52.02 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS.
   In providing for the charges, the findings and determinations set out herein
are made.
   (A)   In the exercise of its governmental authority and in order to promote
the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare, the city has
constructed, operated and maintained a storm sewer system ("the system"). This
section is adopted in the further exercise of the authority and for the same
purposes.
   (B)   The system, as constructed, heretofore has been financed and paid for
through the imposition of special assessments and ad valorem taxes. The
financing methods were appropriate to the circumstances at the time they were
used. It is now necessary and desirable to provide an alternative method of
recovering some or all of the future costs of improving, maintaining and
operating the system through the imposition of charges as provided in this
section.
   (C)   In imposing charges, it is necessary to establish a methodology that
undertakes to make them just and equitable. Taking into account the status of
completion of the system, past methods of recovering system costs, the
topography of the city and other relevant factors, it is determined that it
would be just and equitable to assign responsibility for some or all of the
future costs of operating, maintaining and improving the system on the basis of
the expected storm water runoff from the various parcels of land within the
city during a standard one-year rainfall event.
   (D)   Assigning costs and making charges based upon the typical storm water
runoff cannot be done with mathematical precision but can only be accomplished
within reasonable and practical limits. The provisions of this section
undertake to establish a reasonable and practical methodology for making the
charges.
(Prior Code, § 28.2-2) (Ord. 808, passed - -)
§ 52.03 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Residential equivalent factor. Rates and charges for the use and
availability of the system are to be determined through the use of a
"residential equivalent factor" ("REF"). For the purposes of this section, one
REF is defined as the ratio of the average volume of surface water runoff
coming from one acre of land and subjected to a particular use, to the average
volume of runoff coming from one acre of land subjected to typical single-
family residential use within the city during a standard one-year rainfall
event.
   (B)   Determination of REFs for land uses.
      (1)   The REFs for the following land uses within the city and the
billing classifications for those land uses are as follows.
 
Listed as Land Uses                      REF  Classification
Single-family and two-family residential 1.00 Classification 1
 
      (2)   Public and private schools and institutional uses, airport,
churches, multiple-family residential, commercial and industrial uses,
Classification 2, REF according to the chart below.
 
2 acres or less   REF 2
2.1 to 4.99 acres REF 3
5 acres or more   1 REF/acre of impervious surface, with a minimum of 2 REF
 
   (C)   Other land uses. Other land uses not listed in the foregoing table are
to be classified by the City Administrator by assigning them to the classes
most nearly like the listed uses, from the standpoint of probable hydrologic
response. Appeals from the City Administrator’s determination of the proper
classifications may be made to the City Council in the same manner as other
appeals from administrative determinations.
   (D)   Establishing basic rate. In determining charges, the Council may by
resolution establish a basic system rate to be charged for each REF. The charge
to be made against each parcel of land will then be determined by multiplying
the REF for the parcel's land use classification times the basic system rate.
(Prior Code, § 28.2-3) (Ord. 808, passed - -)
§ 52.04 ADJUSTMENTS OF CHARGES.
   The City Council may, by resolution, from time to time, adopt policies
providing for the adjustment of charges for parcels or grounds of parcels,
based upon hydrologic data supplied by affected property owners, demonstrating
an actual hydrologic response substantially different from the REF being used
for the parcel or parcels. The adjustment may be made only after receiving the
recommendation of the City Administrator and may not be made effective
retroactively. If the adjustment would have the effect of changing the REF for
all or substantially all of the land uses in a particular classification,
however, the adjustment must be accomplished by amending the REF table in §
52.03(B) above.
(Prior Code, § 28.2-4) (Ord. 808, passed - -)
§ 52.05 EXCLUDED LANDS.
   A charge for system availability of service will not be made against land
which is either:
   (A)   Public street right-of-way; or
   (B)   Vacant and unimproved with substantially all of its surface having
vegetation as ground cover.
(Prior Code, § 28.2-5) (Ord. 808, passed - -)
§ 52.06 SUPPLYING INFORMATION.
   The owner, occupant or person in charge of any premises must supply the city
with such information as the city may reasonably request related to the use,
development and area of the premises. Willful failure to provide the
information or to falsify it is a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 28.2-6) (Ord. 808, passed - -)
§ 52.07 ESTIMATED CHARGES.
   If the owner, occupant or person in charge of any premises fails or refuses
to provide the information requested, as provided in §
52.06 above, the charge for the premises must be estimated and billed in
accordance with the estimate, based upon information then available to the
city.
(Prior Code, § 28.2-7) (Ord. 808, passed - -)
§ 52.08 BILLING AND COLLECTIONS.
   Bills for charges for the use and availability of the system must be
rendered by the Finance Department in accordance with usual and customary
practice in rendering of water and sanitary sewer service bills. Bills must be
rendered monthly, must be payable at the office of the City Finance Department
and may be rendered in conjunction with billings for water or sanitary sewer
service, or both.
(Prior Code, § 28.2-8) (Ord. 808, passed - -)
§ 52.09 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES FOR DELINQUENCY OR DEFAULT IN PAYING BILLINGS.
   Penalties and remedies for late payments or nonpayment of billings are the
same as those applicable to billings rendered for water and sanitary sewer
service.
(Prior Code, § 28.2-9) (Ord. 808, passed - -)
§ 52.10 USE OF REVENUES.
   Revenues received from charges are to be placed in a Storm Sewer System
Enterprise Fund Account and used first to pay the normal, reasonable and
current costs of operating and maintaining the system. Revenues from time to
time received in excess of the costs may be used to finance improvements to,
and betterment of, the system.
(Prior Code, § 28.2-10) (Ord. 808, passed - -)
§ 52.11 DEVELOPMENT FEES.
   Fees for the construction of regional storm water infrastructure in newly
developing areas will be established by City Council resolution with the
revenues to be placed in a Storm Sewer Enterprise Fund Account.
(Prior Code, § 28.2-11) (Ord. 808, passed - -)
CHAPTER 53: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Leaders and connection with storm sewer required; procedure in case of
noncompliance
   
53.002   Sewer access charges and water access charges
   
53.003   Water and/or sewer fees
Water Use
   
53.020   Water service charges
   
53.021   Water connection fee for safe drinking water testing program
   
53.022   Use of water without meter; tampering with meter; deposit upon
installation of meter
   
53.023   Bills; procedure generally; procedure upon failure to pay
   
53.024   Estimated water meter reading charges
   
53.025   Water Revenue Fund
   
53.026   Water connection permit; required; application
   
53.027   Tapping fees
   
53.028   Water connection fee
   
53.029   Termination and restoration of service
   
53.030   Nonessential water usage upon critical water deficiency
Sewer Use Generally
   
53.040   Definitions
   
53.041   Authority of enforcing agent
Sewer Use Regulations
   
53.055   Disposal of waste in unsanitary manner prohibited
   
53.056   Discharge of sewage and the like to natural outlets restricted
   
53.057   Use of privies and the like restricted
   
53.058   Installation of toilet facilities and connection to public sewer
required
   
53.059   Compliance with standards required
   
53.060   Sewer connection permit; required; application
   
53.061   Building sewers; permits; fee; responsibility; and the like
   
53.062   Prohibited discharges
   
53.063   Grease, oil and sand traps
   
53.064   Control manhole
   
53.065   Owner to maintain preliminary treatment facilities and the like
   
53.066   Laboratory measurements, tests and the like to be provided
   
53.067   Damaging, tampering with and the like sewage works prohibited
   
53.068   Connection with sewer for purpose of draining roofs, underground
drains and the like
Rates and Charges
   
53.080   Charges
   
53.081   Wastewater service charges; generally; measurement of flow for
computations; formula
   
53.082   Computation of surcharges
   
53.083   Minimum charge
   
53.084   Wastewater user rate
   
53.085   Effective date
   
53.086   Bills; procedure generally; outdoor water use; liens; notice;
foreclosure
   
53.087   Disposition of revenues
   
53.088   Accounts; annual audit
   
53.089   Notice of rates
   
53.090   Access to records
Sump Pump Requirements
   
53.105   Storm water discharge prohibited
   
53.106   Sump pump discharge
   
53.107   Sump pump and drain tile system
Discharge of Surface Waters Prohibited
   
53.120   Other prohibited discharges
   
53.121   Disconnection
   
53.122   Sump pump
   
53.123   Inspection
   
53.124   Surcharge
   
53.125   Right to inspection
Backflow Prevention and Cross-Connection
   
53.135   General policy
   
53.136   Definitions
   
53.137   Cross-connection prohibited
   
53.138   Responsibility
   
53.139   Owner responsibility
   
53.140   Inspections
   
53.141   Right of entry
   
53.142   Authority to discontinue service
   
53.143   Reconnection of service
   
53.144   Emergency discontinuance of service
   
53.145   Additional protection
   
53.146   Public water supplies
   
53.147   Plumbing code
 
   
53.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing city to provide and maintain a sewer and a water works system,
see M.S. § 412.221(6), (11)
   Waterworks, sewers, drains and storm sewers generally, see M.S. §§
444.075 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 LEADERS AND CONNECTION WITH STORM SEWER REQUIRED; PROCEDURE IN CASE OF
NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Every building without a yard adequate to absorb the surface water
collected from the building shall be equipped with proper metallic leaders for
conducting water from its roof in a manner as shall protect the walls and
foundation from damage and shall be connected with a public storm sewer
whenever there is a sewer available in any abutting street or alley. The
leaders shall be so placed and the connection shall be so made that no water
flows upon any public sidewalk or damages any street or alley abutting the
building.
(Prior Code, § 23-1)
   (B)   Whenever a building does not comply with one or more of the
requirements of division (A) above, the City Administrator shall serve a notice
on the owner of the building requiring him or her to install the necessary roof
drainage facilities and to make connection with a storm sewer as required by
division (A) above. It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to comply with
the requirements of division (A) above within 30 days of the service upon him
or her of notice to do so.
(Prior Code, § 23-2)
(Ord. 430, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.002 SEWER ACCESS CHARGES AND WATER ACCESS CHARGES.
   A sewer access charge and a water access charge is hereby established to
apply to any newly platted or replatted parcel of land in the city which
hereafter is connected to the city sanitary sewer and water service. The sewer
access charge and the water access charge shall be in an amount established by
resolution of the City Council from time to time. The sewer access charge and
the water access charge shall be payable at the time of the approval of the
final plat of the subject property.
(Prior Code, § 23-3) (Ord. 776, passed - -)
§ 53.003 WATER AND/OR SEWER FEES.
   The following fees and charges shall be imposed for access to the sanitary
sewer and water systems of the city.
   (A)   Water tapping fee. See §
53.027. The water tapping fee shall be in an amount to be determined by the
City Council.
   (B)   Water connection fee. See §
53.028. The water connection fee shall be in an amount to be determined by the
City Council.
   (C)   Water access charge. See §§
53.002 and
53.026. The water access charge shall be in an amount to be determined by the
City Council.
   (D)   Sewer tapping fee. See §
53.027. The sewer tapping fee shall be in an amount to be determined by the
City Council.
   (E)   Sewer connection fee. See §
53.061(B). The sewer connection fee shall be in an amount to be determined by
the City Council.
   (F)   Sewer access charge. See §
53.002. The sewer access charge shall be in an amount to be determined by the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 23-4) (Ord. 776, passed - -)
WATER USE
§ 53.020 WATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   The minimum monthly charge to each user shall be in an amount to be
determined by the City Council. This amount shall be charged to each single-
family household and commercial customer and is subject to change by the City
Council
   (B)   The minimum monthly charge shall be multiplied by the number of units
of any multi-family household or mobile home park where there is only one
meter.
   (C)   The water user rate shall in an amount to be determined by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 23-6) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -; Ord. 788,
passed - -; Ord. 809, passed - -; Ord. 823, passed - -; Ord. 825, passed 1-28-
2008; Ord. 833, passed 11-25-2008; Ord. 836, passed 5-27-2009)
§ 53.021 WATER CONNECTION FEE FOR SAFE DRINKING WATER TESTING PROGRAM.
   Commencing with the July, 1992, water billing, a fee as set by the State
Department of Health shall be assessed to each water service connection of the
city's water supply.
(Prior Code, § 23-7) (Ord. 673, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -)
§ 53.022 USE OF WATER WITHOUT METER; TAMPERING WITH METER; DEPOSIT UPON
INSTALLATION OF METER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person having control of any premises to permit
the taking of water from the waterworks system of the city without authority or
without passing the water through an accurate water meter installed in the
service line of the premises. No person, but an authorized representative of
the city, shall open or repair any water meter of the city. It is hereby made
the duty of the owner, occupant and lessee of any premises of the city to
notify the proper city authorities of any meter failing to properly measure the
water consumed on the premises. Meters shall be installed at city expense, but
each water patron shall make a deposit, in an amount to be determined by
resolution of the City Council, unless he or she is the owner of the premises;
except that, water patrons who are seasonal in their use of water and not users
of water for a full year shall make a deposit in the same amount, unless the
patron is the owner of the premises, which deposit shall be returned upon
termination of service and surrender of the meter to the city.
(Prior Code, § 23-8) (Ord. 431, passed - -; Ord. 586, passed - -; Ord. 759,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.023 BILLS; PROCEDURE GENERALLY; PROCEDURE UPON FAILURE TO PAY.
   (A)   Bills for water service shall be rendered to the owner, lessee or
occupant of each premises connected with the systems on the first day of each
month for water and sewer service furnished during the preceding month. Bills
for water service shall be due and payable in the office of the City
Administrator on or before the fifteenth day of each month. To each bill not
paid upon or before the date, there shall be added a penalty of 10% of the
amount of the respective bills.
(Prior Code, § 23-9)
   (B)   (1)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill; and
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer's complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge as determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 23-10)
(Ord. 431, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -)
§ 53.024 ESTIMATED WATER METER READING CHARGES.
   After two consecutive meter reading estimates by the Billing Department on
any one utility customer account, a fee shall be charged, as set by resolution
of the City Council. The same fee shall be charged for each and every following
consecutive estimated meter reading. Customers wishing to avoid the estimate
charge must call in the meter reading when a request tag is left by the meter
reader.
(Prior Code, § 23-11) (Ord. 650, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -)
§ 53.025 WATER REVENUE FUND.
   There is created a separate fund of the city to be designated as the Water
Revenue Fund, into which shall be paid all water charges, water connection
charges and application and inspection fees for water service. From the Fund
shall be paid all costs of operating, maintaining, connecting premises and
inspection of the system according to sound accounting practice. Net revenues
shall be used for improvement of the system and for other city purposes as the
City Council shall from time to time determine.
(Prior Code, § 23-12) (Ord. 431, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -)
§ 53.026 WATER CONNECTION PERMIT; REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   No premises shall be connected with the waterworks of the city, except upon
written permit issued by the City Administrator or other authorized
representative of the city, which permit shall be issued only upon a written
application therefor, describing the premises to be connected, the location of
water lines to be connected, the materials to be used, the use to which the
premises is to be put, the person who is to perform the work and other
information as may be reasonably required.
(Prior Code, § 23-13) (Ord. 431, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
53.999
§ 53.027 TAPPING FEES.
   No person or persons, association, partnership, firm, corporation,
contractor or developer shall make any tap into the waterworks or sanitary
sewer systems, except when authorized by a representative of the city. For the
inspection of the sewer and water tapping, there is a special tapping
inspection fee per sewer connection and per water connection, in an amount to
be determined by resolution of the City Council, which the fee shall accompany
each application for a connection. The application shall be accompanied by a
$2,000 surety bond, certified check or cash deposit in the sum of $2,000 to
safeguard the city on the performance of the work in accordance with rules,
regulations and ordinances of the city. All costs related to the work, labor
and materials used in the making of the sewer and water tappings shall be the
responsibility of the person, association, partnership, firm, corporation,
contractor or developer.
(Prior Code, § 23-14) (Ord. 431, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-19-1975; Ord. 672,
passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.028 WATER CONNECTION FEE.
   No person shall make any connection into the waterworks system without
paying a water connection fee, in an amount to be determined by resolution of
the City Council. The water connection fee represents a charge for the
privilege of using the waterworks system of the city and is in addition to the
tapping fees set forth in §
53.027.
(Prior Code, § 23-15) (Ord. 759, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.029 TERMINATION AND RESTORATION OF SERVICE.
   No person, except an authorized representative of the city, shall turn on or
off any curbcock or corporation cock in the water main system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 23-16) (Ord. 431, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
53.999
§ 53.030 NONESSENTIAL WATER USAGE UPON CRITICAL WATER DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   Purpose. This section establishes water conservation restrictions; and
the plan will be in effect at any time the governor declares by executive order
a critical water deficiency, pursuant to M.S. § 103G.291.
   (B)   Application.  
      (1)   This section applies to all customers of public water suppliers who
own or control water use on any premises.
      (2)   No person shall make, cause, use, or permit the use of water
received from a public water supply for residential, commercial, industrial,
governmental, or any other purpose in any manner contrary to any provision in
this section.
   (C)   Mandatory emergency water conservation measures. Upon declaration of a
critical water deficiency, the following mandatory restrictions upon
nonessential water use shall be enforced:
      (1)   Outdoor irrigation of yards, gardens, golf courses, parklands, and
other non-agricultural land, except for those areas irrigated with reclaimed
water, is prohibited.
      (2)   Washing or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, tennis
courts, patios, or other paved areas with water from any pressurized source,
including garden hoses, except to alleviate immediate health or safety hazards,
is prohibited.
      (3)   The outdoor use of any water-based play apparatus connected to a
pressurized source is prohibited.
      (4)   Restaurants and other food service establishments are prohibited
from serving water to their customers, unless water is specifically requested
by the customer.
      (5)   The filling of private swimming pools, fountains, spas, or other
exterior water features is prohibited.
      (6)   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, and other types of
mobile equipment is prohibited, except at facilities equipped with wash water
recirculation systems, and for vehicles requiring frequent washing to protect
public health, safety, and welfare.
   (D)   Violation.  
      (1)   Upon discovery of a first violation, the violator shall be issued,
either personally or by mail, a warning letter that sets forth the violation
and which shall describe the remedy and the penalty for future violations.
      (2)   Upon subsequent violations at the same location, the violator shall
be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the
violation and shall describe the remedy.
   (E)   Enforcement. The City Administrator or his/her designee is authorized
to designate city employees or law enforcement personnel to enforce the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 871, passed 3-14-2018)Penalty, see §
53.999
SEWER USE GENERALLY
§ 53.040 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. The city.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen, expressed in mg/l,
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN (SANITARY). A building drain which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal (also called HOUSE CONNECTION).
      (3)   BUILDING SEWER (SANITARY). A building sewer which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (4)   BUILDING SEWER (STORM). A building sewer which conveys storm water
or other clearwater drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   CLASSES OF USERS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by waste
characteristics and process or discharge similarities.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL. Transient lodging, retail and wholesale establishments
or places engaged in selling merchandise for personal, household or industrial
consumption and/or rendering services to others.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL. Legislative, judicial, administrative and regulatory
activities of federal, state and local governments, such as courthouses, police
and fire stations, city halls and similar governmental users.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL. Manufacturing activities involving the mechanical or
chemical transformation of materials or substances into other products. These
activities occur in establishments usually described as plants, factories or
mills and characteristically use power driven machines and material handling
equipment.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL. Social, charitable, religious and educational
activities such as schools, churches, hospitals, nursing homes, penal
institutions and similar institutional users.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL. All dwelling units such as detached, semi-detached and
row houses, mobile homes, garden and standard apartments, permanent multi-
family dwellings. (Transient lodging, considered commercial in nature, is not
included.)
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat the pollutants and in fact
does remove the pollutants to a substantial degree. The term SUBSTANTIAL DEGREE
is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates removals in
the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order of 10% to
30% are not considered substantial. Examples of the additional pollutants which
may be considered compatible include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   DEPRECIATION. An annual operating cost reflecting capital consumption and
obsolescence (reduction of future service potential) of the treatment works.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the authority.
   GARBAGE. Solid waste from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the commercial handling, storage and sale of
produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including nonbiodegradable dissolved solids.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar, yard
and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges, drains
from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm
sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff, street
wash waters or drainage. INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished from,
infiltration.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a); or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. As defined for the purposes of determining
surcharge, wastewater or sewage having an average daily suspended solids
concentration of not more than 330 mg/l, and average daily BOD of not more than
280 mg/l (an average daily phosphorus concentration of 11 mg/l and containing
not more than 2.5 mg/l of Hexane soluble matter (grease and oil)).
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect (other than
debt service), necessary to ensure adequate wastewater treatment on a
continuing basis, conform with all related federal, state and local
requirements and assure optimal long term facility management. These costs
include DEPRECIATION and REPLACEMENT.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group discharging any wastewater to wastewater treatment works.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately-owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The waste from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers,
with no particle greater than three-eighths inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any governmental agency having jurisdiction by law over
construction and use of a wastewater collection or treatment facility.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer service
at which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions (including
polluted cooling water). The two most common types of SEWAGE are:
      (1)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any trade or
process carried on in that establishment; this shall include the wastes from
pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.
      (2)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRY. Any industry that will contribute greater than 10% of
the design flow or design pollutant loading of the treatment works.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants
which, upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism, will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of the works pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1284
(b).
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 550°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes required
to collect, transport and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent and accumulated residual solids.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
   WATERWORKS. All facilities for water supply, filtration plant, storage
reservoir, water lines and services and booster stations for obtaining,
treating and distributing potable water.
(Prior Code, § 23-18) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -)
§ 53.041 AUTHORITY OF ENFORCING AGENT.
   (A)   The approving authority shall be permitted to gain access to the
properties as may be necessary for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with provisions of these
regulations. Any person found to be violating any provisions of this subchapter
shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
shall be guilty of violation of the service contract and shall be summarily
disconnected from the sanitary sewer and/or water service. The disconnection
and reconnection would be at the total expense of the customer.
   (B)   Where acids and chemicals damaging to sewer lines or treatment
processes are released to the sewer causing rapid deterioration of these
structures or interfering with proper treatment of sewage, the approving
authority is authorized to immediately terminate services by the measures as
are necessary to protect the facilities.
(Prior Code, § 23-19) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
53.999
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
§ 53.055 DISPOSAL OF WASTE IN UNSANITARY MANNER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 23-21) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
53.999
§ 53.056 DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE AND THE LIKE TO NATURAL OUTLETS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this subchapter and the NPDES permit.
(Prior Code, § 23-22) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
53.999
§ 53.057 USE OF PRIVIES AND THE LIKE RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (B)   Private sewage collection and disposal systems will not be permitted
within the city limits, except individual disposal systems which may be
permitted by special permit in outlying rural areas not served by the city
sanitary sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 23-23) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
53.999
§ 53.058 INSTALLATION OF TOILET FACILITIES AND CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER
REQUIRED.
   The owner of any house, building or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located any public sanitary sewer of the city is hereby required
at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect the facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter within 90 days after date of official notice
to do so.
(Prior Code, § 23-24) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
53.999
§ 53.059 COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS REQUIRED.
   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except those
discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the
federal act and more stringent state and local standards.
(Prior Code, § 23-25) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
53.999
§ 53.060 SEWER CONNECTION PERMIT; REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   No premises shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use,
alter or disturb an public sewer or appurtenance thereto except upon written
permit issued by the City Administrator or other authorized representative of
the city, which permit shall be issued only upon a written application
therefor, describing the premises to be opened or connected, the location of
sewer lines, the materials to be used, the use to which the premises is to be
put, the person who is to perform the work and other information as may be
reasonably required.
(Prior Code, § 23-26) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
53.999
§ 53.061 BUILDING SEWERS; PERMITS; FEE; RESPONSIBILITY; AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
            1.   For residential and commercial service; and
            2.   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
         (b)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the City Council. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the City Council. The
industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide information
describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics and type of activity.
      (2)   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
(Prior Code, § 23-27)
   (B)   No premises shall be connected with the sanitary sewer system of the
city, except upon the payment of a connection charge as determined by
resolution of the City Council. The connection charge shall be paid to the City
Administrator at the time when application for a permit to connect with the
sanitary sewer system is made. The connection charge shall be returned to the
applicant should the application be refused.
(Prior Code, § 23-28)
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 23-29)
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building.
(Prior Code, § 23-30)
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the city, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 23-31)
   (F)   (1)   All sewer construction shall conform to the State Plumbing Code.
      (2)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by a means which
is approved in accordance with division (F)(1) above and discharged to the
building sewer.
      (3)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
      (4)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 23-32)
   (G)   All building drains which have backup problems shall have a backwater
valve installed at the owner's expense and it shall be the owner's
responsibility to see that the backwater valve is kept clean and workable. The
city will assume no liability for any damages resulting from backup.
(Prior Code, § 23-33)
(Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.062 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm
water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer.
      (2)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged
to such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the city. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged, on approval of the city, to a storm sewer or natural
outlet.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; and/or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the city that the wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream;
or can otherwise endanger life, limb or public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming the opinion as to acceptability of these wastes, the city
will give consideration to the factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies. The
substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0°
and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the city;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong, acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to a degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the city for the materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in concentrations as may exceed limits as established by
the city in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the city in compliance with applicable state
and federal regulations;
      (10)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as
permitted by the city in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations;
      (11)   Material which exerts or causes:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works;
and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs", as defined herein.
      (12)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to a degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent
cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to
the receiving waters.
   (D)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (C) of this section and/or which are
in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in Chapter 1, EPA Rules
and Regulations, subchapter D, Water Programs Part 128 Pretreatment Standards,
Federal Register Volume 38, No. 215, Thursday, 11-8-1973, and any amendments
thereto, and which in the judgment of the city may have a deleterious effect
upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city
may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and
treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the
provisions hereof.
      (2)   If the city permits the pretreatment of equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the city and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 23-34) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -)
§ 53.063 GREASE, OIL AND SAND TRAPS.
   Grease, oil and sand traps shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing
grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful
ingredients; except that, the traps shall not be required for private living
quarters or dwelling units. All traps shall comply with the State Plumbing Code
and shall be so located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
(Prior Code, § 23-35) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -)
§ 53.064 CONTROL MANHOLE.
   When required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole
together with necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. The manhole,
when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed
in accordance with the plans approved by the city. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or
her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 23-36) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -)
§ 53.065 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES AND THE LIKE.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 23-37) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -)
§ 53.066 LABORATORY MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND THE LIKE TO BE PROVIDED.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this subchapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge. The number, type and frequency of laboratory
analyses to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city, but
no less than once per year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the
constituents of the wastewater. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at the times and in a manner
as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses and reporting required by the city. At such times as
deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to take measurements and samples
for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
   (B)   (1)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association.
      (2)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of health hazards.
(Prior Code, § 23-38) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -)
§ 53.067 DAMAGING, TAMPERING WITH AND THE LIKE SEWAGE WORKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment
which is a part of the sewage works.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under a charge of disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 23-39) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
53.999
§ 53.068 CONNECTION WITH SEWER FOR PURPOSE OF DRAINING ROOFS, UNDERGROUND
DRAINS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall directly or indirectly connect with or make use of, in
any manner or nature, the public sanitary sewer of the city for the purpose of
draining roof drains, underground drains or wastewater of any nature.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates this section by directly or indirectly
connecting with the sanitary sewer system will have upon notice from the city
90 days to disconnect or discontinue the direct or indirect use into the
sanitary sewer.
      (2)   If, at the end of the 30 days, the connection is not terminated,
disconnected or discontinued, the City Superintendent shall disconnect,
discontinue or terminate in any manner necessary the unlawful use of the
sanitary sewer, at the expense of the owner of the real estate. The cost and
expense of the removal shall be assessed against and shall be a lien upon the
property.
   (C)   Any removal of a direct or indirect hookup performed by the City
Superintendent pursuant to this section shall be reported to City Council
indicating the property where the removal took place and the cost and expenses
incurred because of the removal.
   (D)   Any levy and assessment upon and against property pursuant to this
section shall be done in accordance with the rules and regulations governing
assessments by the city.
(Prior Code, § 23-40) (Ord. 431, passed - -; Ord. passed 8-16-1971; Ord. 759,
passed - -; Am. Ord. 875, passed 3-11-2020) Penalty, see §
53.999
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.080 CHARGES.
   Every residential household, commercial complex, commercial business or
industry shall pay to the city the amount set forth under this subchapter for
the proper operation of the sewage treatment plant and collection system. Any
building which is privately owned, whether occupied or not, shall be subject to
this payment. Any established multi-dwelling or mobile home park shall make
payment based on the number of units as established by the system of payment.
The payment shall be applied to each unit on the system, including those who
disconnect for a period of time.
(Prior Code, § 23-41) (Ord. 759, passed - -)
§ 53.081 WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES; GENERALLY; MEASUREMENT OF FLOW FOR
COMPUTATIONS; FORMULA.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for
service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the city shall consist of a
basic user charge for operation and maintenance plus replacement, a debt
service charge and a surcharge, if applicable.
         (b)   The debt service shall be computed by dividing the annual debt
service of all outstanding loans by the number of users. Through further
divisions, the monthly debt service charges can be computed.
         (c)   The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded
by water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following normal
concentration:
            1.   A five-day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand of 280 mg/l; and
            2.   A suspended solids (SS) content of 330 mg/l.
      (2)   It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs, plus
replacement and shall be computed as follows:
         (a)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories;
         (b)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons for normal sewage strength; and
         (c)   Compute surcharge costs per 1,000 gallons per mg/l in excess of
normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
      (3)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the
maximum concentrations for BOD (280 mg/l) and SS (330 mg/l). The surcharge will
be based on water meters and/or sewage meters for all wastes which exceed the
280 mg/l, 330 mg/l, BOD and SS, respectively. Division (C) below specifies the
procedure to compute a surcharge.
      (4)   (a)   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be
reviewed annually by the City Administrator for the city in the annual audit
report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect
a change in debt service or a change in operation and maintenance costs
including replacement costs.
         (b)   The city shall revise the user charges to accomplish the
following:
            1.   Maintain the proportionate distributions, operation and
maintenance costs among users and user classes as required herein; and
            2.   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and
maintenance costs necessary to properly operate and maintain the treatment
works.
         (c)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the
cost of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year
and adjust the rate accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 23-42)
   (B)   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and
surcharges shall be the metered water consumption of each defined unit for each
corresponding month to the lowest even increment of 1,000 gallons. For
residential customers only, the city shall set, by resolution, the maximum
number of gallons of water per month a unit may consume and still qualify for
the basic user charges and surcharges.
      (1)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures
any part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the public
waterworks system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers,
the person shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a
type approved by the city for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
      (2)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be
required by the city if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered water consumption records.
      (3)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, the meters may not be removed, unless service is cancelled,
without the consent of the city.
(Prior Code, § 23-43)
   (C)   The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following
formula:
TC = DS + AF + UR + SC
      (1)   TC = Total amount of wastewater charges ($) per billing period.
      (2)   DS = Debt service charge, if any.
      (3)   AF = Administrative fee for all related administrative costs.
      (4)   UR = User rate for operation, maintenance and replacement (§
53.083).
      (5)   SC = Amount of surcharge (§
53.082).
      (6)   Bc = $0.11/BOD5.
      (7)   Sc = $0.0.06/# suspended solids.
      (8)   B = BOD5 - 280 mg/l.
      (9)   S = SS - 330 mg/l.
(Prior Code, § 23-44)
(Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -; Ord. 786, passed - -)
§ 53.082 COMPUTATION OF SURCHARGES.
   (A)   The rates of surcharges for BOD5 and SS shall be as follows:
CS = (Bc(B) + Sc(S)Vu)
   (B)   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the city and shall be binding as a basis for
surcharges.
(Prior Code, § 23-45) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -)
§ 53.083 MINIMUM CHARGE.
   (A)   The minimum monthly charge to each user regardless of usage shall be
in an amount to be determined by City Council. This amount shall be charged to
each single-family household and commercial customer and is subject to change
by City Council.
   (B)   The minimum monthly charge shall be multiplied by the number of units
of any multi-family household or mobile home park where there is only one
meter.
   (C)   The sanitary sewer rate shall be in an amount to be determined by the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 23-48) (Ord. 759, passed - -; Ord. 798, passed - -; Ord. 815,
passed - -; Ord. 823, passed - -; Ord. 825, passed 1-28-2008; Ord. 833, passed
11-25-2008; Am. Ord. 837, passed 11-12-2009; Am. Ord. 839, passed 5-26-2010)
§ 53.084 WASTEWATER USER RATE.
   (A)   The wastewater user rate will be in an amount to be determined by City
Council.
   (B)   This rate will be effective 12-15-2008, with the January, 2009,
billing reflecting the new rate.
(Prior Code, § 23-49) (Ord. 786, passed - -; Ord. 788, passed - -; Ord. 798,
passed - -; Ord. 815, passed - -; Ord. 823, passed - -; Ord. 825, passed 1-28-
2008; Ord. 833, passed 11-25-2008; Am. Ord. 837, passed 11-12-2009; Am. Ord.
839, passed 5-26-2010)
§ 53.085 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The rate shall be effective with the July 1, 2010, billing.
(Prior Code, § 23-50) (Ord. 759, passed - -; Ord. 798, passed - -; Ord. 815,
passed - -; Ord. 823, passed - -; Ord. 825, passed 1-28-2008; Ord. 833, passed
11-25-2008; Am. Ord. 837, passed 11-12-2009; Am. Ord. 839, passed 5-26-2010)
§ 53.086 BILLS; PROCEDURE GENERALLY; OUTDOOR WATER USE; LIENS; NOTICE;
FORECLOSURE.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility
service to customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a
meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city's form for
application for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the
title, address, room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of
billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
            1.   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill; and
            2.   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
            3.   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing, and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
         (b)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be
entertained; only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.
In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing
procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified,
but in no event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30
days.
         (c)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge as set out in the city rate ordinance.
      (2)   The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the
service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for service to the
premises and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only upon the
condition that the owner of the premises, occupant or user of the services are
jointly and severally liable therefor to the city.
(Prior Code, § 23-51)
   (B)   Sewer billing for outdoor water use through the primary meter for
residential customers shall be billed in the same manner as all other water
usage. All other customers shall be required to purchase a separate meter to
offset the cost of water not passing through the public sewage system. The cost
of a second meter, installation and remoting shall be borne by the property
owner.
(Prior Code, § 23-52)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for 45
days after it has been rendered, the City Administrator shall file with the
County Recorder a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the
legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill and a
notice that the city claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges
subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
         (b)   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the
premises and the City Administrator has notice of this, notice shall be mailed
to the owner of the premises if his or her address is known to the
Administrator, whenever the bill remains unpaid for the period of 45 days after
it has been rendered.
         (c)   The failure of the City Administrator to record the lien or to
mail the notice or the failure of the owner to receive the notice shall not
affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in the
foregoing section.
      (2)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay
the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. The foreclosure shall be by bill-in-equity in the name of the
city. The City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute the
proceedings in the name of the city in any court having jurisdiction over the
matters against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid 45 days
after it has been rendered.
(Prior Code, § 23-53)
(Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -; Ord. 786, passed - -; Ord. 836,
passed 5-27-2009)
§ 53.087 DISPOSITION OF REVENUES.
   (A)   All revenues and money derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be deposited in the Sewerage Account of the Sewerage Fund. All
revenues and money shall be held by the City Administrator separate and apart
from his or her private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of
the city. There shall be two separate funds, one for operation, maintenance and
replacement and one for debt service.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall receive all revenues from the sewerage
system and all other funds and money incident to the operation of the system as
the same may be delivered to him or her and deposit the same in the amount of
the Fund designated as the Sewerage Fund of the city. The Administrator shall
administer the Fund in every respect in the manner provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 23-54) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -)
§ 53.088 ACCOUNTS; ANNUAL AUDIT.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system and,
at regular annual intervals, he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges do in fact meet these regulations. In this regard, the financial
information to be shown in the audit report shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed;
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system;
      (5)   Number of nonmetered users; and
      (6)   A list of users discharging nondomestic wastes (industrial users)
and volume of waste discharged.
(Prior Code, § 23-55) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -)
§ 53.089 NOTICE OF RATES.
   (A)   Each user shall be notified at least annually, in conjunction with the
regular billing, of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are
attributable to wastewater treatment services.
   (B)   A copy of the rates and charges, properly certified by the City
Administrator, shall be filed in the office of the County Register of Deeds and
shall be deemed notice to all owners of real estate of the charges of the
sewerage system of the city on their properties.
(Prior Code, § 23-56) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -)
§ 53.090 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The United States Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized
representative shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of
the city which are applicable to the city system of user charges for the
purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and transactions thereof to
ensure compliance with the terms of the special and general conditions to any
federal grant.
(Prior Code, § 23-57) (Ord. 554, passed - -; Ord. 759, passed - -)
SUMP PUMP REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.105 STORM WATER DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant or user of any premises
to direct into or allow any storm water, ground water, roof run-off, pond
overflow, well water or water from residential, industrial or commercial air
conditioning systems to drain into the sanitary sewer system of the city.
   (B)   No rainspout, or other form of surface drainage and no foundation
drainage or sump pump shall be connected or any substance other than sanitary
sewage discharged into any sanitary sewer, except as provided herein.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person or residence to discharge any water from
roof, surface, drain tile, footing tiles, swimming pools, hot tubs or other
natural precipitation into the sanitary sewer or adjoining properties.
(Prior Code, § 23-61) (Ord. 817, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.106 SUMP PUMP DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Dwellings, buildings and structures may use a permanently installed
sump pump and discharge line to the outside to prevent the inflow infiltration
of clear water into the sanitary sewer, except as provided herein.
   (B)   A permanent installation shall provide for year-round discharge
capability, to the outside of the building, connected to a storm sewer or
discharged through the curb to the street.
   (C)   The discharge line from the sump pump shall be of rigid construction
without valves or quick connection for altering the path of the discharge.
   (D)   No discharge shall direct so as to impact neighboring properties or
any city street, sidewalk or right-of-way. The city may allow installation of a
locked "winter/summer" valve in individual circumstances to abate nuisance
icing where no subdrain/storm sewer and other reasonable alternative exists,
only with review and express permission of the city.
(Prior Code, § 23-62) (Ord. 817, passed - -; Am. Ord. 875, passed 3-11-2020)
Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.107 SUMP PUMP AND DRAIN TILE SYSTEM.
   A drain tile, sump basket, pump, electrical receptacle and pipe connection
to the outside may be installed in any existing building and new buildings
within the city, provided the design and installation complies with the
provisions of this section and passes inspection by the Building Official.
(Prior Code, § 23-63) (Ord. 817, passed - -)
DISCHARGE OF SURFACE WATERS PROHIBITED
§ 53.120 OTHER PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, ground
water, roof run-off, yard drainage, yard fountain, pond overflow or any
substance other than sanitary sewage into the sanitary collection system.
(Prior Code, § 23-71) (Ord. 817, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.121 DISCONNECTION.
   Any person, firm or corporation having a roof drain, sump pump, swimming
pool discharge, cistern overflow pipe or any surface drain now connected and/or
discharging into the sanitary sewer system shall disconnect and/or remove same
prior to 5-31-2006. Any disconnects or openings in the sanitary sewer shall be
sealed.
(Prior Code, § 23-72) (Ord. 817, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.122 SUMP PUMP.
   Sump pumps shall have a discharge system installed to the outside wall of
the building. The pipe attachment shall be a permanent fitting such as PVC pipe
with glued fittings. The discharge shall extend at least three feet outside of
the foundation wall. When a sump pit exists in any building, it shall have a
pump installed: no empty pits shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 23-73) (Ord. 817, passed - -; Am. Ord 875, passed 3-11-2020)
Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.123 INSPECTION.
   Every person owning improved real estate that discharges into the city’s
sanitary sewer system shall allow the city employees, or their designees, to
inspect the buildings to confirm that there is no sump pump or other prohibited
discharge into the sanitary sewer system. Any person refusing to allow his or
her property to be inspected shall immediately become subject to the surcharge
hereinafter provided for. The owner of any such property may meet the
requirements of this section by contracting with a licensed plumber who is
authorized to do business in the city to perform such inspection. Such plumber
shall inspect the owner's property and shall complete, sign and return an
inspection form to the city, documenting the results of the inspections. The
inspection form shall be furnished to the property owner or licensed plumber
upon request. All costs associated with an inspection by a licensed plumber
retained by the property owner under this section shall be the responsibility
of the property owner. The owner of any improved real estate shall have a
period of 30 days from the date the city sends a written notice to the owner
requesting admittance to the owner's property for an inspection, to either
allow a city inspection of the property, or to contract with a licensed plumber
to perform the inspection, and notify the city of the results thereof. Such
inspection, whether performed by the city inspection, or by the licensed
plumber hired by the property owner, shall be completed within said 30-day
period. Upon completion of city inspection of a property, or upon the city's
receipt of an inspection form from the licensed plumber hired by the owner of
the property, if the city shall determine whether any such property is
improperly discharging storm water into city sanitary sewer system, then the
owner shall have a period of 90 days from the date the city sends such written
notice to the owner, to obtain a plumbing permit, and to disconnect owner's
sump pump or other prohibited discharge into the city sanitary sewer system and
to request-reinspection, certifying that all work necessary to disconnect the
owner's sump pump or other prohibited discharge from said property into the
city sanitary sewer system has ben completed. All work that is necessary to
comply with the provisions of this division which requires the insurance of any
plumbing, building, or other permit under this code shall be inspected by the
city.
(Prior Code, § 23-74) (Ord. 817, passed - -; Am. Ord. 875, passed 3-11-2020)
Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.124 SURCHARGE.
   A surcharge in an amount to be determined by City Council is hereby imposed
and shall be added to every sewer billing mailed, to property owners who are
not in compliance with this section, and to property owners who have refused
entry to city employees, or their designees, to determine compliance. Said
surcharge shall commence on the first day of the month following the expiration
of the 30-day period set forth for inspection, or the 90-day period set forth
for correction of deficiencies, as applicable, when either the property owner
has failed to timely allow city inspection or has failed to timely correct any
illegal connections to the city sanitary sewer system. The surcharge shall be
added every month, until the property is in compliance. The imposition of the
surcharge shall, in no way, limit the right of the city to seek relief under §
53.068 or to seek an injunction in District Court ordering the property owner
to discontinue the nonconforming connection to the sanitary sewer system or
from pursuing other legal remedies available. This monthly surcharge is
intended to offset the added cost to the city associated with having the city
wastewater collection, conveyance and treatment systems process clear or clean
water (inflow/infiltration) unnecessarily, when the status of the property
owner's connection or non-connection to the city sanitary sewer system cannot
be ascertained, or when the owner has failed to timely disconnect any discharge
of storm water to the city sanitary sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 23-75) (Ord. 817, passed - -; Ord. 824, passed - -; Am. Ord.
875, passed 3-11-2020)
§ 53.125 RIGHT TO INSPECTION.
   Upon verified compliance with this section, the city reserves the right to
inspect the property at least yearly to verify continuing compliance herewith.
(Prior Code, § 23-76) (Ord. 817, passed - -)
BACKFLOW PREVENTION AND CROSS-CONNECTION
§ 53.135 GENERAL POLICY.
   The purpose of this subchapter is:
   (A)   To protect the health and welfare of users of the public potable water
supply from the possibility of contamination or pollution of the potable water
system(s) under the direct authority of the public water utility.
   (B)   To promote for the control and/or elimination of existing cross
connections (actual or potential) between the customer's potable water system
(s) and other environment containing substance(s).
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water system(s) under the direct
authority of the public water utility (PWU).
(Ord. 2670, passed - -)
§ 53.136 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW. The undesirable flow of water or mixtures of water and other
liquids, gases or other substances under positive or reduced pressure into the
Water Utility (hereinafter "Utility") potable supply of water from any source.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION. A means designed to prevent backflow caused by
backpressure or back-siphonage; most commonly categorized as air gap, reduced
pressure principle assembly, double check valve assembly, pressure vacuum
breaker assembly, back siphonage vacuum breaker (spill resistant vacuum
breaker) assembly, atmospheric vacuum breaker, hose connection vacuum breaker,
hose connection backflow preventer, backflow preventer with intermediate
atmospheric vent, and barometric loop.
   BACKPRESSURE. An elevation of pressure in the downstream piping system
(i.e., pump, elevation of piping, or steam and/or air pressure) above the
utility supply pressure, which would cause or tend to cause a reversal of the
normal direction of flow.
   BACK-SIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
into the utility's potable water supply system from any source caused by the
sudden reduction of pressure in the utility's potable water supply system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate systems, one of which contains potable water from the
Utility, and the other containing water from a private source, water of unknown
or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals, whereby there may be a
flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow depending on the
pressure differential between the two systems.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL MANUAL. Policies for cross connection control and
backflow prevention for the city.
(Ord. 2670, passed - -)
§ 53.137 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or permit
to be maintained any cross-connection. No interconnection shall be established
whereby potable water from a private, auxiliary or emergency water supply,
other than the public water supply of the utility, may enter the potable water
supply of the utility, unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water
supply and the method of connection and use of such supply shall have been
approved by the utility and the State of Minnesota.
(Ord. 2670, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.138 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Department of Public Water and Utilities Department shall be responsible
for the protection of the public potable water distribution system from
contamination or pollution due to the backflow of contaminants or pollutant.
The utility shall charge fees according to the utilities cross-connection
control manual for maintaining a comprehensive cross connection control
protection plan.
(Ord. 2670, passed - -)
§ 53.139 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The property owner shall be responsible for the protection of customer's
potable water system. For the elimination of or protection from all cross
connection on their premises. The owner shall, at their expense, install,
maintain, and test any and all backflow preventers on their premises in
compliance with Department of Public Water and the Utilities Cross Connection
Control Manual. The property owner shall have corrected any malfunction,
revealed by periodic testing, of any backflow preventer on their premises. The
property owner shall inform the utility of any proposed or modified cross-
connections and also any existing cross-connections that are not protected by
an approved backflow prevention means. The property owner shall not install a
by-pass around any backflow preventer unless there is a backflow preventer of
the same type in the by-pass. Property owners who cannot shut down operation
for testing of the backflow prevention assembly must supply additional assembly
necessary to allow testing to take place. In the event the properly owner
installs potable water using fixtures, equipment or appurtenances upstream of a
backflow preventer, such must have its own approved backflow prevention means.
The property owner is required to follow the protection practices described in
the American Water Works Association publication AWWA M14 titled Recommended
Practice for Backflow Prevention and Cross-Connection Control, United States
Environmental Protection Agency titled Cross Connection Control Manual and the
Utilities Cross Connection Control Manual; unless the utility requires or
authorizes other means of protecting the potable water system. These
requirements or authorizations will be at the discretion of the utility.
(Ord. 2670, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.140 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the utility to cause inspection to be made of all
properties serviced by the utility where cross-connection with the public water
system is deemed possible. Residential properties serviced by the utility shall
be inspected on a 15-year interval. The utility may, but is not required to,
perform the cross-connection inspection of the owner's property. If, in the
opinion of the utility, the utility is not able to perform the inspection the
property owners must, at their own expense, have the plumbing inspected for
cross-connections by a certified cross-connection control inspector/surveyor.
All non-residential properties serviced by the utility shall be inspected on a
two-year interval. The utility may, but is not required to, perform the cross-
connection inspection of the owner's property. If, in the opinion of the
utility, the utility is not able to perform the inspection, the property owners
must, at their own expense, have the plumbing inspected for cross-connections
by a certified cross-connection control inspector/surveyor who is a state
certified plumber. The frequency of required inspections and re-inspections,
based on potential health hazards involved, may be shortened by the utility.
(Ord. 2670, passed - -)
§ 53.141 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of credentials, representatives of the utility shall have
the right to request entry at any reasonable time to examine any property
served by a connection to the public potable water system of the utility for
cross-connections. If entry is refused, such representatives shall obtain a
special inspection warrant. The utility shall charge the property owner a fee
to be determined by the City Council per day for refusal to allow entry to
examine any property. Upon request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any
property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system on such property.
(Ord. 2670, passed - -)
§ 53.142 AUTHORITY TO DISCONTINUE SERVICE.
   The Utility is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of this section exists and
to take such other precautionary measures deemed necessary to eliminate any
damage of contamination of the potable water system. Water service shall be
discontinued if the means of backflow prevention required by the utility is not
installed, tested, maintained, and repaired in compliance with this subchapter,
Department of Public Utilities and the Utilities Cross Connection Control
Manual, or if it is found that the means of backflow prevention required by
this subchapter has been removed or bypassed. Water service shall be
discontinued only after reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing except as
provided in §
53.144.
(Ord. 2670, passed - -)
§ 53.143 RECONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   Water service to any property discontinued under the provisions of this
subchapter shall not be restored until the cross-connection has been eliminated
or a backflow prevention means approved by the Utility has been installed in
compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2670, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.144 EMERGENCY DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   If it is determined by the utility that a cross-connection or an emergency
endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires immediate action,
service may be immediately discontinued. The owner, lessee, or occupant shall
have an opportunity for a hearing within ten days of such emergency
discontinuance. Such hearing shall be before the City Water Department and
shall conform to all existing due process requirements.
(Ord. 2670, passed - -)
§ 53.145 ADDITIONAL PROTECTION.
   In the case of premises having a:
   (A)   Internal cross-connections that cannot be permanently corrected or
controlled; or
   (B)   Intricate plumbing and piping arrangements or where entry to all
portions of the premises is not readily accessible for inspection purposes,
making it impracticable or impossible to ascertain whether or not dangerous
cross-connections exist, the public water system shall be protected against
backflow from the premises by installing an approved backflow preventer in the
service line. In the case of any premises where there is any material dangerous
to health that is handled in such a manner that, in the opinion of the utility,
could create an actual or potential hazard to the public water system, an
approved air-gap separation or an approved reduced-pressure principle assembly
shall protect the public water system. Examples of premises where these
conditions will exist include sewage treatment plants, hospitals, mortuaries,
plating plants, and car wash establishments. In the case of any premises where,
in the opinion of the utility, an undue health threat is posed because of the
presence of toxic substances, the utility may require an approved air gap or
reduced pressure principle assembly at the service connection to protect the
public water system. This requirement will be at the discretion of the utility.
(Ord. 2670, passed - -)
§ 53.146 PUBLIC WATER SUPPLIES.
   This section does not supersede the State of Minnesota Water Supplies Code,
but is supplementary to it.
(Ord. 2670, passed - -)
§ 53.147 PLUMBING CODE.
   This section does not supersede the State of Minnesota Chapter 4715, but is
supplementary to it.
(Ord. 2670, passed - -)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions
of §§
53.020 through
53.029 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to
misdemeanor penalties. Each day that the violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 23-17)
   (C)   Any person violating any provisions of §
53.041 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to
misdemeanor penalties. Each day of each violation shall be deemed a separate
offense. Any person violating any of the provisions of §
53.041 shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the city by reason of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 23-19)
   (D)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
53.055 through
53.068, except §
53.067, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations. The city may revoke any permit for
sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of §§
53.055 through
53.068.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (D)(1) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be subject to the maximum penalties provided by the law for a misdemeanor
conviction.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
53.055 through
53.068 shall be liable to the city for any and all damages caused by the
violation.
(Prior Code, § 23-20)
   (E)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
53.080 through
53.090 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor offense and, upon conviction, be
subject to misdemeanor penalties.
(Prior Code, § 23-58)
(Ord. 538, passed - -; Ord. 554, passed - -; Res. 623, passed - -; Ord. 759,
passed - -)
CHAPTER 54: ELECTRICITY AND NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
Section
Rates and Charges for Electrical Service
   
54.01   Rates and regulations; Council to establish
   
54.02   Payment; failure to pay
   
54.03   To become lien on land
   
54.04   Deposits; billing; notice required for certain service
   
54.05   Return of deposit upon termination of service and payment of bill
   
54.06   Service fee may be charged upon change in ownership, possession of
premises or disconnection
   
54.07   Rolling average budget plan
   
54.08   Estimated electric meter reading charges
   
54.09   Test meter charges and regulations established
   
54.10   Protection of electrical facilities
   
54.11   Load management controllers
Franchise Granted to Peoples Natural Gas
   
54.25   Franchise granted
   
54.26   Term
   
54.27   Governing rules and regulations
   
54.28   Construction
   
54.29   Maintenance
   
54.30   Extension of company facilities
   
54.31   Relocation of company facilities
   
54.32   Confidential information
   
54.33   Force majeure
   
54.34   Hold harmless
   
54.35   Notices
 
   
54.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire protection generally, see
Ch. 91 of this Code
   Interference with transmission lines by trees, see §
93.10
   Water and sewers generally, see
Ch. 53 of this Code
Statutory reference:
   Electricity and electricians generally, see M.S. §§ 326.241 to 326.248
   For state law as to authority of city to regulate construction of buildings,
see M.S. § 412.221(28)
   Public utilities generally, see M.S. §§ 412.321 to 412.391
RATES AND CHARGES FOR ELECTRICAL SERVICES
§ 54.01 RATES AND REGULATIONS; COUNCIL TO ESTABLISH.
    The City Council shall set the rates and the time of payment for electrical
service from time to time. The City Council may also establish regulations by
resolution concerning the use, availability, furnishing of electrical energy in
the city and fees in conjunction therewith. By reference see
Ch. 50, Public Works Generally, as amended by Ordinance 682, passed 2-17-1993
and Ordinance 684, passed 5-19-1993, §§
50.04(B) and (C).
(Prior Code, § 7-16) (Ord. 439, passed 8-29-1967; Ord. 684, passed 5-19-1993)
§ 54.02 PAYMENT; FAILURE TO PAY.
    The user of electrical energy furnished and provided by the city shall be
liable and responsible for the payment of all charges and rates in connection
with such use, and upon default of payment of such charges and rates within the
time permitted, the city shall have the right and is hereby granted the right
to discontinue furnishing electrical energy to such user, and when such
electrical energy is discontinued, no person shall thereafter reestablish such
connection without authorization from the city, nor until the service fee
established by §
54.06 is paid and payment in full of the overdue electrical bill has been
received by the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-18) (Ord. 439, passed 8-29-1967; Ord. 515, passed - -; Ord.
624, passed - -)
§ 54.03 TO BECOME LIEN ON LAND.
   In the event the user or users of such electrical energy fail to pay for
such electrical energy when due and payable, the delinquent account shall be
certified to the county auditor and levied against the lands in question and
assessed against such land or lands in the form of taxes.
(Prior Code, § 7-19) (Ord. 439, passed 8-29-1967)
§ 54.04 DEPOSITS; BILLING; NOTICE REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN SERVICE.
   (A)   Deposits shall be made in the city office by all customers who are not
bona fide owners of premises occupied at a rate set annually by resolution of
the City Council.
   (B)   Bills shall be mailed on the first day of the month. Penalties shall
be attached after the fifteenth of the month without special notice. Service
shall be disconnected if bills are not paid by the twenty-fifth of the month. A
service fee will be made in accordance with §
54.06.
   (C)   Prior notice must be given for:
      (1)   New three phase service.
      (2)   Single phase service for 200 amperes or more.
      (3)   Electricians, developers or contractors to furnish meter socket in
accordance with recommended list provided by Kasson Public Utilities, a copy of
which is available at the City Administrator's office and at the office of the
utilities superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 7-20) (Ord. 439, passed 8-29-1967; Ord. 515, passed - -; Ord.
640, passed - -; Ord. 653, passed - -; Ord. 762, passed - -)
§ 54.05 RETURN OF DEPOSIT UPON TERMINATION OF SERVICE AND PAYMENT OF BILL.
   All customer deposits as required by this subchapter shall be subject to the
following:
   (A)   Upon termination of service with all bills paid, the deposit shall be
returned to the customer within 45 days, less than deductions made in
accordance with division (C).
   (B)   Interest shall be paid on deposits in excess of $20 at the rate of 6%
per year. The city may, at its option, pay the interest at intervals it chooses
but at least annually, by direct payment, or as a credit on bills.
   (C)   At the time the deposit is made, the city shall furnish the customer
with a written receipt specifying the conditions, if any, upon which the
deposit will be diminished upon return.
   (D)   Advance payments or prepayments shall not be construed as being a
deposit.
(Prior Code, § 7-21) (Res. 169, passed - -)
§ 54.06 SERVICE FEE MAY BE CHARGED UPON CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP, POSSESSION OF
PREMISES, OR DISCONNECTION.
   When there is a change in ownership, possession of residential or commercial
property or disconnection, and unless arrangements are made in advance with the
City Administrator's office, the City shall have the option of terminating
electrical service to such property and of charging a service fee for the
reinstatement of such services:
   (A)   Service fee for reinstatement of electrical services during city
business hours, 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, at a rate set by
the City Council.
   (B)   No services shall be reinstated from 3:30 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. and no
services shall be reinstated on weekends or holidays.
(Prior Code, § 7-22) (Ord. 515, passed - -; Ord. 623, passed - -; Ord. 762,
passed - -)
§ 54.07 ROLLING AVERAGE BILLING PLAN.
   A budget billing plan is hereby established for city public utilities
customers who request the plan, subject to the following rules and regulations:
   (A)   All current billing charges must be paid in full to be eligible for
the plan.
   (B)   Enrollment shall be subsequent to the next billing cycle.
   (C)   Billing is based on an average usage for the previous 13 months and
amounts due will vary slightly with each billing.
   (D)   If budget plan accounts are delinquent two times in a calendar year,
they will be removed from the plan, and must establish a good payment record
for one year before being eligible for the plan again.
   (E)   The due date for budget plan accounts shall be the same as that
established for regular monthly billing customers.
(Prior Code, § 7-23) (Res. 912, passed - -)
§ 54.08 ESTIMATED ELECTRIC METER READING CHARGES.
   After two consecutive meter reading estimates by the billing department on
any one utility customer account, a fee at a rate set annually by the City
Council shall be charged. A fee at a rate set annually by the City Council
shall be charged for each every following consecutive estimated meter reading.
Customers wishing to avoid the estimate charge must call in the meter reading
when a request tag is left by the meter reader.
(Prior Code, § 7-24) (Ord. 650, passed - -; Ord. 762, passed - -)
§ 54.09 TEST METER CHARGES AND REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED.
   A fee at a rate set annually by the City Council, paid in advance, at the
public utility office shall be charged to the user or users of electrical
energy requesting installation of a test meter for the purpose of evaluating
accuracy of an inplace meter. Accuracy shall be determined within a 5% range or
actual KWH's metered by the test meter. Kasson public utilities shall replace
the inplace meter should there be a variance of over five KWH low or high from
actual KWH's as calibrated by the test meter.
(Prior Code, § 7-25) (Res. 1382A, passed - -; Ord. 762, passed - -)
§ 54.10 PROTECTION OF ELECTRICAL FACILITIES.
   The customer shall use reasonable diligence to protect the facilities of
Kasson public utilities used on the customer's premises, and to prevent
tampering or interference with such facilities. Kasson public utilities may
disconnect service in cases where the electrical meter and/or wiring on the
customer's premises have been tampered with or energy is unmetered. In cases of
such unauthorized use of service, the Kasson public utilities will continue
service only after the customer has agreed to pay for the unmetered energy
used, pay all costs of discovery and investigation, and make provisions and pay
charges for metering charges as may be required by Kasson public utilities.
Failure to enter into and to comply with such an agreement shall be cause to
discontinue service.
(Prior Code, § 7-26) (Ord. 749, passed - -)
§ 54.11 LOAD MANAGEMENT CONTROLLERS.
   The Kasson Electric Utility shall require load management controllers on new
houses permitted after January 1, 2014 with central air conditioner units; and,
on replacement central air conditioner units permitted after January 1, 2014.
Conservation Improvement Program incentives shall be available to all houses
utilizing load management controllers on central air conditioner units.
(Ord. 858, passed 1-13-2016)
FRANCHISE GRANTED TO PEOPLES NATURAL GAS
§ 54.25 FRANCHISE GRANTED.
    The City of Kasson, Minnesota (hereinafter referred to as "grantor"),
hereby grants a nonexclusive franchise to Peoples Natural Gas, a division of
UtiliCorp United Inc., a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called "grantee"),
its lessees, successors and assigns. This repeals the franchise previously
granted by Ordinance No. 492. Grantee is hereby granted the right, privilege,
franchise, permission, and authority to construct, maintain, operate and extend
in the present and future streets, alleys, avenues, bridges, public rights-of-
way and public places as are now within the present or future limits of said
grantor, a natural gas distribution system for the purpose of supplying natural
gas or processed gas for all purposes to the inhabitants of said grantor and
consumers in the vicinity thereof, and for the distribution of natural gas from
or through said grantor to points beyond the limits thereof. Grantor further
grants grantee the right, permission and authority to lay, install, maintain,
and operate over, across and along all of the streets, avenues, alleys,
bridges, public rights-of-way and public places of grantor all mains, services,
pipes, conduits, and appliances necessary or convenient for transmitting,
transporting, distributing, and supplying natural gas for all purposes for
which it may be used, and to do all other things necessary and proper in
providing natural gas service to the inhabitants of grantor and in carrying on
such business.
(Prior Code, § 7-28) (Ord. 781, passed - -)
§ 54.26 TERM.
   The rights and privileges granted by this subchapter shall remain in effect
for a period of 25 years from the effective date of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-29) (Ord. 781, passed - -)
§ 54.27 GOVERNING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   This subchapter is granted subject to all conditions, limitations, and
immunities now provided for, or as hereafter amended, and applicable to the
operations of a public utility, by the laws of the State of Minnesota. The
rates to be charged by grantee for service within the present or future
corporate limits of grantor and the rules and regulations regarding the
character, quality and standards of service to be furnished by grantee shall be
under the jurisdiction and control of such regulatory body or bodies as may,
from time to time, be vested by law with authority and jurisdiction over the
rates, regulations and quality and standards of service to be supplied by
grantee. Provided, however, should any judicial, regulatory or legislative
body, having proper jurisdiction, take any action that precludes grantee from
recovering from its customers any cost associated with services provided
hereunder, then grantee and grantor shall renegotiate the terms of this
subchapter in accordance with the action taken, so as to allow grantee to be
made whole economically. In determining the rights and duties of the grantee,
the terms of this franchise subchapter shall take precedence over any
conflicting terms or requirements contained in any other article enacted by the
grantor
(Prior Code, § 7-30) (Ord. 781, passed - -)
§ 54.28 CONSTRUCTION.
   Any pavements, sidewalks or curbing taken up and any and all excavations
made shall be done in such a manner as to cause only such inconvenience to the
inhabitants of grantor and to the general public as is reasonably necessary;
and repairs and replacements shall be made promptly by grantee; leaving such
properties in as good condition as existed immediately prior to excavation.
(Prior Code, § 7-31) (Ord. 781, passed - -)
§ 54.29 MAINTENANCE.
   Grantee agrees that for the term of this grant, it will use its best efforts
to maintain facilities and equipment sufficient to meet the current and future
energy requirements of grantor, its inhabitants and industries. While
maintaining its facilities and equipment, grantee shall obtain permits as
required by ordinance, except that in emergency situations, grantee shall take
immediate unilateral actions as it determines are necessary to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare; in which case, grantee shall notify grantor
as soon as reasonably possible.
(Prior Code, § 7-32) (Ord. 781, passed - -)
§ 54.30 EXTENSION OF COMPANY FACILITIES.
   Upon receipt and acceptance of a valid application for service, grantee
shall, subject to its own economic feasibility criteria, make reasonable
extensions of its distribution facilities to serve customers located within the
current or future corporate limits of grantor. No obligation shall extend to,
or be binding upon, grantee to extend its facilities if grantee is, for any
reason, unable to obtain and deliver an adequate energy supply.
(Prior Code, § 7-33) (Ord. 781, passed - -)
§ 54.31 RELOCATION OF COMPANY FACILITIES.
   If grantor elects to change the grade of or otherwise alter any street,
alley, avenue, bridge, public right-of-way or public place for a public
purpose, grantee, upon reasonable notice from grantor, shall remove and
relocate its facilities or equipment situated in the public rights-of-way, if
such removal is necessary to prevent interference and not merely for the
convenience of the grantor, at the cost and expense of grantee. If grantor
orders or requests grantee to relocate its facilities or equipment primarily
for non-public purposes or the primary benefit of a commercial or private
project, or as a result of the initial request of a commercial or private
developer or other nonpublic entity, and such removal is necessary to prevent
interference and not merely for the convenience of the grantor or other right-
of-way user, grantee shall receive reimbursement for the cost of such
relocation as a precondition to relocating its facilities or equipment. Grantor
shall consider reasonable alternatives in designing its public works projects
so as not arbitrarily to cause grantee unreasonable additional expense in
exercising its authority under this section. Grantor shall also provide a
reasonable alternative location for grantee's facilities.
(Prior Code, § 7-34) (Ord. 781, passed - -)
§ 54.32 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Grantor acknowledges that certain information it might request pursuant to
this franchise may be of a proprietary and confidential nature. If grantee
requests that any information provided by grantee to grantor be kept
confidential due to such proprietary or commercial value, grantor and its
employees, agents, and representatives shall maintain the confidentiality of
that information. If grantor is requested or required by legal or
administrative process to disclose any such confidential information, grantor
shall promptly notify grantee of such request or requirement so that grantee
may seek an appropriate protective order or other relief. Grantor shall use all
reasonable efforts to ensure that the confidentiality of grantee's confidential
information is maintained.
(Prior Code, § 7-35) (Ord. 781, passed - -)
§ 54.33 FORCE MAJEURE.
   It shall not be a breach or default under this franchise if either party
fails to perform its obligations hereunder due to force majeure. Force majeure
shall include, but not be limited to, the following: (1) physical events such
as acts of God, landslides, lightning, earthquakes, fires, freezing, storms,
floods, washouts, explosions, breakage or accident or necessity of repairs to
machinery, equipment or distribution or transmission lines; (2) acts of others
such as strikes, work-force stoppages, riots, sabotage, insurrections or wars;
(3) governmental actions such as necessity for compliance with any court order,
law, statute, ordinance, executive order, or regulation promulgated by a
governmental authority having jurisdiction; and any other causes, whether of
the kind herein enumerated or otherwise not reasonably within the control of
the affected party to prevent or overcome. Each party shall make reasonable
efforts to avoid force majeure and to resolve such event as promptly as
reasonably possible once it occurs in order to resume performance; provided,
however, that this provision shall not obligate a party to settle any labor
strike.
(Prior Code, § 7-36) (Ord. 781, passed - -)
§ 54.34 HOLD HARMLESS.
Grantee, during the term of this subchapter, agrees to save harmless grantor
from and against all claims, demands, losses and expenses arising directly out
of the negligence of grantee, its employees or agents, in the constructing,
operating, and maintaining of distribution and transmission facilities or
appliances of grantee; provided, however, that grantee need not save harmless
grantor from claims, demands, losses and expenses arising out of the negligence
of grantor, its employees or agents.
(Prior Code, § 7-37) (Ord. 781, passed - -)
§ 54.35 NOTICES.
   Any notices required to be given hereunder shall be sent to the following:
   (A)   If to grantee: Vice President, Customer Operations, UtiliCorp United
Inc., 20 W. Ninth Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64105.
   (B)   If to grantor: City Administrator, 401 Fifth Street SE, Kasson,
Minnesota 55944-2204.
(Prior Code, § 7-38)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is set out shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
54.01 to
54.10 above is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7-27) (Ord. 749, passed - -)
CHAPTER 55: PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
Right-of-Way Management
   
55.01   Election to manage the public rights-of-way
   
55.02   Definitions
   
55.03   Permit requirement
   
55.04   Permit applications
   
55.05   Issuance of permits; conditions
   
55.06   Permit fees
   
55.07   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
55.08   Supplementary applications
   
55.09   Denial of permit
   
55.10   Installation requirements
   
55.11   Inspection
   
55.12   Work done without a permit
   
55.13   Supplementary notification
   
55.14   Revocation of permits
   
55.15   Mapping data
   
55.16   Location facilities
   
55.17   Pre-excavation facilities location
   
55.18   Damage to other facilities
   
55.19   Right-of-way vacation
   
55.20   Indemnification and liability
   
55.21   Abandoned and unusable facilities
   
55.22   Appeal
   
55.23   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
§ 55.01 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the city hereby elects, pursuant M.S.
§ 237.163 subd. 2(b), to manage rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions included in M.S. § 237.162, Minnesota Rules 7810.0100,
subps. 1 through 25 are hereby adopted by reference and are incorporated into
this chapter as if set out in full.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.03 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no
person may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained
the appropriate right-of-way permit from the city to do so.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required to excavate
that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and to hinder free and
open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of right-of-way by placing
equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the extent and for the
duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not required if a person
already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same project.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless (i) such person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of-way permit before the expiration
of the initial permit, and (ii) a new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minnesota Rule 7819.1000, subp. 3
and notwithstanding division (B) of this section, the city shall establish and
impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation,
obstruction, patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established
from time to time by City Council resolution.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.04 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit is made to the city. Right-of-way permit
applications shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon
compliance with, the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities, and the following information:
      (1)   Each permittee's name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and email address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      (2)   The name, address and email address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times.
      (3)   A certificate of insurance of self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
permitee by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Minnesota, or a form of self-insurance acceptable to the city.
         (b)   Verifying that the permittee is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
            1.   Use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the permittee, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees; and
            2.   Placement and use of facilities and equipment in the right-of-
way by the permittee, its officers, agents, employees and permittees,
including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising from
completed operations, damage of underground facilities and collapse of
property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancelation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term;
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the city in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
         (f)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
         (g)   A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have such certificate
from said commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs and other management
costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the city;
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the city shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, state and federal laws, including but not limited to
M.S. §§ 216D.01 - .09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and Minnesota
Rules Chapter 7560.
   (C)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to Horizontal Directional Drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 216D and Minnesota Rules Chapter 7560, and shall
require potholing or open cutting over existing underground utilities before
excavating as determined by the city.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.06 PERMIT FEES.
   The city shall establish permit fees in an amount sufficient to recover
public expense and/or development fees in connection with the consideration of
the application.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall establish an Excavation permit
fee in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs;
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the city management
costs.
   (C)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay such fees within 30 days of billing.
   (D)   Nonrefundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the city
has revoked for a breach as stated in §
55.14 are not refundable.
   (E)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. Permittee shall patch its own work. The city
may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If, following such
restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee's improper backfilling, the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, all costs
associated with correcting the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minnesota
Rule 7819.3000.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
patching and restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the city and shall comply with Minnesota Rule 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee
upon notification from the city, shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the city. Said work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the city,
not including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonable or
unreasonable.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city at its option may do such work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights under the
construction performance bond.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.08 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must, before working in that greater
area:
      (1)   Make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby; and
      (2)   Be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.09 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.10 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minnesota Rules
7819.1100 and 7819.5000 and other applicable local requirements, in so far as
they are not inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163. Installation of
service laterals shall be performed in accordance with Minnesota Rules Chapter
7560 and these ordinances. Service lateral installation is further subject to
those requirements and conditions set forth by the city in the applicable
permits and/or agreements referenced in §
55.03(B).
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.11 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minnesota Rule 7819.1300.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work-site available to the
city and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The director may issue an order to the permittee for any work that
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the director that
to the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented
within the required time, the director may revoke the permit pursuant to §
55.23.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.12 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations. Each registrant shall immediately notify the
director of any event regarding its facilities that it considers to be an
emergency. The owner of the facilities may proceed to take whatever actions are
necessary to respond to the emergency. Excavators' notification to Gopher State
One Call regarding an emergency situation does not fulfill this requirement.
Within two business days after the occurrence of the emergency, the owner shall
apply for the necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill
the rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with
this chapter for the actions it took in response to the emergency. If the city
becomes aware of an emergency regarding facilities, the city will attempt to
contact the local representative of each facility owner affected, or
potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the city may take
whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost of
which shall be borne by the person whose facilities occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by the
city code, deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to
the right-of-way, and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.13 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the city of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.14 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee's control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
55.11.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit, the city shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, which will cure the breach. Permittee's failure to so
contact the city, or permittee's failure to timely submit an acceptable plan,
or permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit. Further, permittee's failure to
so contact the city, or permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
automatically place the permittee on probation for one full year.
   (D)   Automatic revocation. If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, permittee's permit will automatically be revoked and
permittee will not be allowed further permits for one full year, except for
emergency repairs.
   (E)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with such revocation.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.15 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required. Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the city in accordance with Minnesota Rules
7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Within 90 days following completion of any work
pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the director accurate maps
and drawings certifying the "as-built" location of all equipment installed,
owed and maintained by the permittee. Such maps and drawings shall include the
horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and equipment and shall be
provided consistent with the city's electronic mapping system, when practical
or as a condition imposed by the director Failure to provide maps and drawings
pursuant to this division shall be grounds for revoking the permit holder's
registration.
   (B)   Service laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minnesota Rules
7560.0150 subpart 2, shall require the permittee's use of appropriate means of
establishing the horizontal locations of installed service laterals and the
service lateral vertical locations in those cases where the director reasonably
requires it. Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the director
evidence satisfactory to the director of the installed service lateral
locations. Compliance with this division and with applicable Gopher State One
Call law and Minnesota Rules governing service laterals installed after
December 31, 2005 shall be a condition of any city approval necessary for:
      (1)   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project
including those under M.S. Chapter 429; and
      (2)   City approval under development agreements or other subdivision or
site plan approval under M.S. Chapter 462. The city shall reasonably determine
the appropriate method of providing such information. Failure to provide prompt
and accurate information on the service laterals installed may result in the
revocation of the permit issued for the work or future permits to the offending
permittee or its subcontractors.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.16 LOCATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must comply with the
Act, with other applicable law, and with Minnesota Rules 7819.3100, 7819.5000
and 7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise
available to cities.
   (B)   (1)   Corridors. The city may assign a specific area within the right-
of-way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facilities that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
      (2)   Any registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position
at variance with the corridors established by the city shall, no later than at
the time of the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the
facilities are located, move the facilities to the assigned position within the
right-of-way, unless this requirement is waived by the city for good cause
shown, upon consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the
facilities, public safety, customer service needs and hardship to the
registrant.
   (C)   Nuisance. One year after the passage of this chapter, any facilities
found in a right-of-way that have not been registered shall be deemed to be a
nuisance. The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in
equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or taking
possession of the facilities and restoring the right-of-way to a useable
condition.
   (D)   Limitation of space. To protect health, safety, and welfare, or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the city shall have
the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional facilities
within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the city shall strive to the
extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-
of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest,
the public's needs for the particular utility service, the condition of the
right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the
protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and future city plans
for public improvements and development projects which have been determined to
be in the public interest.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.17 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. 216D.01-.09 ("One
Call Excavation Notice System") before the start date of any right-of-way
excavation, each registrant who has facilities or equipment in the area to be
excavated shall mark the horizontal and vertical placement of all said
facilities. Any registrant whose facilities are less than 20 inches below a
concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work closely with the excavation
contractor to establish the exact location of its facilities and the best
procedure for excavation.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.18 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move a registrant's facilities to protect it, the city
shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to the facility owner and must be
paid within 30 days from the date of billing. Each facility owner shall be
responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which
it or its facilities damage. Each facility owner shall be responsible for the
cost of repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused
during the city's response to an emergency occasioned by that registrant's
facilities.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.19 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   Reservation of right. If the city vacates a right-of-way that contains
facilities, the facility owner's rights in the vacated right-of-way are
governed by Minnesota Rules 7819.3200.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.20 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By applying for and accepting a permit under this chapter, a permittee
agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance with the provisions of
Minnesota Rule 7819.1250.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.21 ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the city must provide
information satisfactory to the city that the registrant's obligations for its
facilities in the right-of-way under this chapter have been lawfully assumed by
another registrant.
   (B)   Removal. Any person who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-way
shall remove them from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with other
right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement is
waived by the city.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.22 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that: (1) has been denied registration; (2) has been
denied a permit; (3) has had a permit revoked; (4) believes that the fees
imposed are not in conformity with M.S. § 237.163, Subd. 6; or (5) disputes a
determination of the city regarding §
55.11 may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or decision reviewed,
upon written request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act on a
timely written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting. A decision by
the City Council affirming the denial, revocation, or fee imposition will be in
writing and supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of
the decision.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
§ 55.23 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee's rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
city to adopt and enforce general ordinances as necessary to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 870, passed 11-22-2017)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
         
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   State Highway Traffic Regulation Act adopted
   
70.02   Abandoned and junked motor vehicles or parts therefrom
Stopping, Standing and Parking
   
70.20   Definition
   
70.21   Parking restrictions generally
   
70.22   Obstructing traffic, endangering health and the like
   
70.23   Parking on Main Street between 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.
   
70.24   Special permit
   
70.25   Parking of certain vehicles restricted
   
70.26   Special parking zones
   
70.27   Enforcement
Vehicle Operation
   
70.40   Unreasonable acceleration
   
70.41   Through traffic prohibited on certain streets
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing city to adopt state law by reference, see M.S. Ch. 471
   Motor vehicles generally, see M.S. Chs. 168 to 171
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATION ACT ADOPTED.
   (A)   The regulatory provisions of M.S. Chs. 168, 169 and 171, as may be
amended from time to time, are hereby adopted as a traffic ordinance regulating
the use of highways, streets and alleys within the city and are hereby
incorporated in and made a part of this chapter as if set out here in full.
(Prior Code, § 13-1)
   (B)   Any violation of the statutes adopted by reference in division (A)
above is a violation of this chapter when it occurs within the city. Any person
thus violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and
shall be punished by a penalty as is prescribed by the statutes, except where a
different penalty is prescribed in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-2)
(Ord. 470, passed - -)
§ 70.02 ABANDONED AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES OR PARTS THEREFROM.
   No person shall place, park, permit to remain, store or leave upon any
premises, other than a duly established and licensed junkyard, any motor
vehicle which does not have affixed thereto a valid current motor vehicle
license, or any portion thereof or part therefrom, when the motor vehicle,
portion thereof or part therefrom is in a rusted, wrecked, partially dismantled
or junked condition or in an inoperative or abandoned condition, whether
attended or not; and the owner of the motor vehicle, portion thereof or part
therefrom, and the owner and occupant of the premises upon which the same is
located, shall be obligated to remove the same to a duly licensed junkyard or
other authorized place of deposit or storage.
(Prior Code, § 13-2.1) (Ord. 579, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
§ 70.20 DEFINITION.
   As used in this subchapter, the word VEHICLE shall mean every device in,
upon or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon
a street or alley, except devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 13-3) (Ord. 463, passed - -; Ord. 464, passed - -)
§ 70.21 PARKING RESTRICTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Angle and parallel parking. Angle parking shall be required on West
Main Street between Mantorville Avenue and Third Avenue northwest. On the
street, every vehicle parked shall be parked with the front of the vehicle
facing the curb at an angle of approximately 45 degrees. On all other streets,
cars shall be parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway in accordance
with law.
   (B)   No parking, stopping or standing zones. No vehicle shall be parked in
a no parking zone during hours when parking is prohibited; except that, a
vehicle may be parked temporarily in the zone for the purpose of forming a
funeral procession, and a truck may be parked temporarily between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on any business day for the purpose of loading or
unloading where access to the premises is not otherwise available.
   (C)   Time limit parking zones and 24-hour parking on all city streets. The
City Council shall determine the location and duration of time limit parking
zones by resolution and shall direct the City Administrator to mark the zones
with appropriate signs. No person shall park a vehicle in any limited parking
zone for a longer period than is so specified by the sign. No person shall park
a vehicle in any one parking space on any street within the corporate limits
for a period of longer than 24 hours.
   (D)   Impoundment. Any police officer or designated agent may remove a
vehicle from a street to an appropriate place, when the vehicle is left
unattended and constitutes an obstruction to traffic or hinders snow removal or
street improvement or maintenance operations. The vehicle shall not be released
until the fees for towing and storage are paid, in addition to any fine imposed
for violation of this section. The city shall not be responsible for damage to
vehicles so removed.
   (E)   Prima facie violation. The presence of any motor vehicle, when
standing or parked in violation of this section, is prima facie evidence that
the registered owner of the vehicle committed or authorized the commission of
the violation.
(Prior Code, § 13-3.1) (Ord. 509, passed - -; Ord. 570, passed - -; Ord. 806,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC, ENDANGERING HEALTH AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall stop, stand, park or leave any vehicle, machinery, equipment
or other device or property of any nature upon any public street, highway,
alley, sidewalk or boulevard within the city in a manner so as to obstruct or
encumber the free movement of traffic or endanger the health, welfare or safety
of the community.
(Prior Code, § 13-4) (Ord. 464, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 PARKING ON MAIN STREET BETWEEN 2:00 A.M. AND 5:00 A.M.
   No person shall stop, stand, park or leave any vehicle, machinery, equipment
or other device or property of any nature upon Main Street within the city
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 13-5) (Ord. 463, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 SPECIAL PERMIT.
   If it becomes necessary for any person to stand, park or leave any device or
property upon Main Street between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. or upon
any public street, highway, alley, sidewalk or boulevard of the city, the
person shall make application to the Police Department in writing stating in
detail his or her reasons therefor, and if the Police Department shall find
sufficient reason in fact exists, and that no obstruction, hazardous condition
or encumbrance will be created thereby, the Police Department may issue a
special permit allowing the person to stop, stand, park or leave the device or
property upon the street, highway, alley, sidewalk or boulevard for an
additional period as the Police Department deems reasonable. Construction
trailers may be parked on city streets only when being used in conjunction with
an adjacent construction project for which all required permits have been
issued, and only while attended.
(Prior Code, § 13-6) (Ord. 463, passed - -; Ord. 464, passed - -; Ord. 860,
passed 8-10-2016)
§ 70.25 PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall park any of the following described vehicles on any
street or alley for more than one hour unless the street or alley has been
otherwise posted to the contrary:
      (1)   Dump trucks, tractors, truck-tractors, semitrailers or any heavy
machinery;
      (2)   Any truck, trailer or semitrailer which is being used for the
transportation of livestock or has been used for the transportation of
livestock and has not been cleaned;
      (3)   Trucks of a capacity of more than one ton, according to
manufacturer’s rating.
   (B)   Vehicles that can be parked on any street or alley for no more than 24
hours unless the street or alley has been otherwise posted to the contrary:
      (1)   Trailers, boats and boat trailers, recreational vehicles, campers,
truck campers, snowmobile trailers, ATV trailers; and
      (2)   Trucks having an overall length of more than 24 feet or width at
any point of more than eight and a half feet.
(Prior Code, § 13-6.1) (Ord. 536, passed - -; Ord. 762, passed - -; Ord. 860,
passed 8-10-2016) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26 SPECIAL PARKING ZONES.
   No person, excepting a person authorized to do so, shall park a vehicle on
any street, alley or publicly-owned parking lot where the Council has
established a special parking zone. The Council may establish special parking
zones wherever the convenience or necessity of the public requires or wherever
necessary in the proper exercising of the police power.
(Prior Code, § 13-6.2) (Ord. 698, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any vehicles, machinery, equipment or other devices or property of any
nature which shall be left parked or standing in violation of this subchapter
may be summarily removed without notice to the owner or operator by officers of
the Police Department of the city or persons employed or designated by it and
stored in any appropriate place. All necessary costs and expenses of towing,
removing and storage of the vehicles shall be first paid to the person by the
person claiming the vehicles before release of the same.
   (B)   The city shall not be responsible for any damage to the vehicles,
machinery, equipment or other devices or property of any nature removed in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-7) (Ord. 463, passed - -; Ord. 464, passed - -)
VEHICLE OPERATION
§ 70.40 UNREASONABLE ACCELERATION.
   No person shall start, accelerate or turn any motor vehicle with an
unnecessary exhibition of speed on any public or private way within the city.
Prima facie evidence of the unnecessary exhibition of speed shall be squealing
or screeching sounds emitted by the tires, the throwing of sand or gravel by
the tires or the abrupt turning or swaying of the vehicle, or a combination of
the above.
(Prior Code, § 13-8) (Ord. 507, passed - -; Ord. 762, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
70.99
§ 70.41 THROUGH TRAFFIC PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to drive a vehicle down any street properly posted with
a sign which provides "No Through Traffic".
(Prior Code, § 13-9) (Ord. 570, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating §
70.21 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 13-3.1)
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
70.25 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and be punishable as defined by
law.
(Prior Code, § 13-6.1)
   (D)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
70.40 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punishable as defined by law.
(Prior Code, § 13-8)
   (E)   Any person convicted of violating §
70.41 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 13-9)
(Ord. 509, passed - -; Ord. 536, passed - -; Ord. 570, passed - -; Ord. 762,
passed - -; Ord. 806, passed - -)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles
   
71.01   State regulations adopted
   
71.02   Operation regulations
Special Vehicles
   
71.10   Motorized golf carts; utility task vehicles; Class 1 all-terrain
vehicles and mini-trucks
   
71.11   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
71.12   Motorized foot scooters
   
71.13   Medium-speed electric vehicles and neighborhood electric vehicles
   
71.14   All-terrain vehicles; operation regulations
Motorhomes and Travel Trailers
   
71.50   Definition
   
71.51   Parking and use on public streets and grounds
   
71.52   Use or occupancy on private property
   
71.53   Sewer and toilet facilities
   
71.54   Deposit of garbage, rubbish and the like; removal of wheels
 
   
71.99   Penalty
SNOWMOBILES
§ 71.01 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   M.S. §§ 84.81 to 84.89, as may be amended from time to time, are hereby
adopted as the snowmobile regulations of the city and are hereby made a part of
this subchapter as if fully set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 19-1)
§ 71.02 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   When regulated. No person shall operate a snowmobile within the city
limits upon public property or upon private property after the hours of 10:00
p.m. or before 9:00 a.m., Sunday through Thursday. On Friday and Saturday, no
person shall operate a snowmobile within the city limits upon public property
or upon private property after midnight or before 9:00 a.m. The operation of
snowmobiles within the city limits during the hours allowed shall be strictly
limited to travel by the shortest and most direct route to and from the
operator's home to areas outside of the city limits. The City Council may, at
its discretion, allow snowmobiles to be operated outside of the hours allowed
for special events. Permission for snowmobile groups and clubs to operate
snowmobiles outside of the hours allowed shall be obtained only from the City
Council at a regular meeting thereof. Snowmobiles may not be operated at any
time within the city limits in a manner other than as provided above.
(Prior Code, § 19-2)
   (B)   Where permitted; limitations.
      (1)   During the hours enumerated in division (A) above, the operation of
snowmobiles will be limited to the following streets:
         (a)   Veteran's Memorial Highway west from Second Avenue southwest to
Eighth Avenue southwest;
         (b)   Second Avenue southwest from CSAH 34 southerly;
         (c)   Eighth Avenue southwest and northwest;
         (d)   Fifth Street northwest from Fourth Avenue southwest westerly;
         (e)   Fourth Avenue northwest from Fifth Street northwest to Seventh
Street northwest;
         (f)   Seventh Street northwest and northeast; and
         (g)   First Avenue northeast from Main Street to Seventh Street
northeast.
      (2)   No snowmobile shall cross Main Street between Eighth Avenue
northwest and First Avenue northeast.
      (3)   It is unlawful to operate a snowmobile upon private property
without written permission of the owner or person entitled to possession and
use of the property and upon any school grounds, park property, playgrounds or
recreation area or any other public property.
      (4)   All snowmobiles operated on the above described streets shall only
use that portion of the roadway ordinarily used for vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 19-3)
   (C)   Right-of-way; obedience to state law. Snowmobiles shall, at all times,
yield the right-of-way at every intersection and shall be operated in
accordance with the state traffic laws and the provisions of this code and
other ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 19-4)
   (D)   Speed limits. It is unlawful to operate a snowmobile within the
corporate city limits at a rate of speed greater than 15 mph.
(Prior Code, § 19-5)
(Ord. 645, passed - -; Ord. 755, passed - -; Ord. 793, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
71.99
SPECIAL VEHICLES
§ 71.10 MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS; UTILITY TASK VEHICLES; CLASS 1 ALL-TERRAIN
VEHICLES AND MINI-TRUCKS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart, utility task
vehicle, all-terrain vehicle, or mini-truck without obtaining a permit as
provided herein.
      (2)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by
the city and shall contain all of the following information:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The nature of the applicant's physical handicap, if any;
         (c)   Model name, make, and year and number of the motorized golf
cart, all-terrain vehicle, or mini-truck;
         (d)   Current driver's license or reason for not having a current
license; and
         (e)   Other information as the city may require.
      (3)   The permit fee shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule, as may be
amended from time to time.
      (4)   Permits may be granted for a period of one to 36 months and may be
renewed.
      (5)   No permit shall be granted or renewed unless the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   The applicant must demonstrate that he or she currently holds or
has held a valid Minnesota driver's license;
         (b)   The applicant may be required to submit a certificate signed by
a physician that the applicant is able to safely operate a motorized golf cart,
mini-truck, utility task vehicle or all-terrain vehicle on the roadways
designated;
         (c)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance
with the provisions of Minnesota Statutes concerning insurance coverage for the
golf cart, utility task vehicle, all-terrain vehicle, or mini-truck; and
         (d)   The applicant has not had his or her driver's license revoked as
the result of criminal proceedings.
      (6)   Motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles, all-terrain vehicles,
and mini-trucks are permitted to operate only on city streets, not state or
federal highways, except to cross at designated intersections. No motorized
golf cart, mini-truck, utility task vehicle, or all-terrain vehicle shall drive
along Main Street between Eighth Avenue Northwest and First Avenue Northeast,
nor drive along State Highway 57, nor upon County Highway 34 or County Highway
21 while those roads run in city limits.
      (7)   Motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles and all-terrain
vehicles not equipped with headlights and taillights may only be operated on
designated roadways from sunrise to sunset. Motorized golf carts with
operational, manufacturer installed or commercially available retrofitted
headlights and tail lights shall be permitted to operate on city streets. They
shall not be operated in inclement weather conditions or at any time when there
is insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (8)   Motorized golf carts shall display the slow-moving vehicle emblem
provided for in M.S. § 169.045, as may be amended from time to time, when
operated on designated roadways.
      (9)   Motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles, all-terrain vehicles,
and mini-trucks shall be equipped with a rear-view mirror to provide the driver
with adequate vision from behind as required by M.S. § 169.70, as may be
amended from time to time.
      (10)   The operator of a motorized golf cart, utility task vehicle, all-
terrain vehicle, or mini-truck may cross any street or highway intersecting a
designated roadway. It is unlawful to operate upon private property without
written permission of the owner or person entitled to possession and use of
such property, and upon any school grounds, park property, playgrounds or
recreation area or any other public property.
      (11)   Every person operating a motorized golf cart, a utility task
vehicle, an all-terrain vehicle, or a mini-truck under permit on designated
roadways has all the rights and duties applicable to the driver of any other
vehicle under the provisions of M.S. Ch. 169, as may be amended from time to
time, except when these provisions cannot reasonably be applied to motorized
golf carts or mini-trucks and except as otherwise specifically provided in M.S.
§ 169.045, subd. 7, as may be amended from time to time.
      (12)   The City Council may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder
upon a finding that the holder thereof has violated any of the provisions of
this section or M.S. Ch. 169, as may be amended from time to time, or if there
is evidence that the permit holder cannot safely operate the motorized golf
cart, utility task vehicle, all-terrain vehicle, or mini-truck on the
designated roadways.
      (13)   The number of occupants on the golf cart, utility task vehicle,
all-terrain vehicle, or mini-truck may not exceed the design occupant load.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motorized vehicle with: (1) not less than three, but not more
than six low pressure or non-pneumatic tires; (2) a total dry weight of 2,000
pounds or less; and (3) a total width from outside of tire rim to outside of
tire rim that is 65 inches or less. ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE includes a class 1 all-
terrain vehicle and class 2 all-terrain vehicle.
         (b)   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE does not include an electric-assisted
bicycle, golf cart, mini-truck, dune buggy, or go-cart, or a vehicle designed
and used specifically for lawn maintenance, agriculture, logging, or mining
purposes.
      DRIVER. The person driving and having physical control over the motorized
golf cart, utility task vehicle, all-terrain vehicle, or mini-truck and being
the licensee.
      MOTORIZED GOLF CART. Any passenger conveyance being driven with four
wheels with four low-pressure tires that is limited in engine displacement of
less than 800 cubic centimeters and total dry weight less than 800 pounds.
      UTILITY TASK VEHICLE. As defined by M.S. § 169.045, subd. 1 (3), as may
be amended from time to time, a side-by-side, four-wheel drive, off-road
vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an internal combustion engine
with a piston displacement capacity of 1,200 cubic centimeters or less, and has
a total dry weight of 1,800 but less than 2,600 pounds.
      MINI-TRUCK. As defined in M.S. § 169.011, subd. 40(a), as may be amended
from time to time, a motor vehicle that has four wheels; is propelled by an
electric motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal
combustion engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters
or less; has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds; contains an enclosed
cabin and a seat for the vehicle operator; commonly resembles a pickup truck or
van, including a cargo area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle; and was
not originally manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards
required of motor vehicles in C.F.R., Title 49, §§ 571.101 to 571.404, and
successor requirements. A mini-truck does not include: a neighborhood electric
vehicle or a medium-speed electric vehicle as defined by § 73.11; or a motor
vehicle that meets or exceeds the regulations in C.F.R., Title 49, § 571.500,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Authorized government staff may operate permitted motorized golf
carts, utility task vehicles, all-terrain vehicles, and mini-trucks without
obtaining a permit within the city when conducting city business.
   (D)   Mini-truck equipment requirements:
      (1)   A mini-truck may be operated under permit on designated roadways if
it is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   At least two headlamps;
         (b)   At least two tail lamps;
         (c)   Front and rear turn-signal lamps;
         (d)   An exterior mirror mounted on the driver's side of the vehicle
and either an exterior mirror mounted on the passenger's side of the vehicle or
an interior mirror;
         (e)   A windshield;
         (f)   A seat belt for the driver and front passenger; and
         (g)   A parking brake.
(Ord. 872, passed 6-13-2018; Ord. 8.2-23, passed 8-23-2023)
§ 71.11 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing device
with two non-tandem wheels, designed to transport not more than one person, and
operated by an electric propulsion system that limits the maximum speed of the
device to 15 miles per hour.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a person operating an electric
personal assistive mobility device has the rights and responsibilities of a
pedestrian.
   (C)   Operation.
      (1)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may be operated on a
bicycle path.
      (2)   No person may operate an electric personal assistive mobility
device on a roadway, sidewalk, or bicycle path at a rate of speed that is not
reasonable and prudent under the conditions. Every person operating an electric
personal assistive mobility device on a roadway, sidewalk, or bicycle path is
responsible for becoming and remaining aware of the actual and potential
hazards then existing on the roadway or sidewalk and must use due care in
operating the device.
      (3)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may be operated on a
roadway only under the following circumstances:
         (a)   While making a direct crossing of a roadway in a marked or
unmarked crosswalk;
         (b)   Where no sidewalk is available;
         (c)   Where a sidewalk is so obstructed as to prevent safe use;
         (d)   When so directed by a traffic control device or by a peace
officer;
         (e)   Temporarily in order to gain access to a motor vehicle; and
         (f)   As provided in division (7) below by Council resolution.
      (4)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may not be operated
at any time on a roadway with a speed limit of more than 35 miles per hour
except to make a direct crossing of the roadway in a marked crosswalk.
      (5)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may not be operated
at any time while carrying more than one person.
      (6) Designated exclusive city streets. The City Council may, by
resolution, designate exclusive city streets within its jurisdiction where the
operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices is not permitted,
provided that any street so designated has a speed limit of more than 35 miles
per hour.
      (7)   A person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device
on a sidewalk must yield the right-of-way to pedestrians at all times. A person
operating an electric personal assistive mobility device on a bicycle path must
yield the right-of-way to bicycles at all times.
      (8)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may not be operated
unless the device bears reflectorized material on the front, back, and wheels,
visible at night from 600 feet when illuminated by the lower beams of headlamps
of a motor vehicle.
(Ord. 872, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 71.12 MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTERS.
   (A)   MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTER. A device with handlebars designed to be stood
or sat upon by the operator, and powered by an internal combustion engine or
electric motor that is capable of propelling the device with or without human
propulsion, and that has no more than two 12-inch or smaller diameter wheels
and has an engine or motor that is capable of a maximum speed of 15 miles per
hour on a flat surface with not more than one-percent grade in any direction
when the motor is engaged. An electric personal assistive mobility device, a
motorized bicycle, an electric-assisted bicycle, or a motorcycle is not a
MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTER.
   (B)   Operation of a motorized foot scooter on city bicycle paths, bicycle
lanes, bicycle trails, or bikeways is prohibited except as provided in division
(C) below.
   (C)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate specific bicycle paths,
bicycle lanes, bicycle trails, or bikeways as available for use by motorized
foot scooters.
   (D)   Every person operating a motorized foot scooter shall have all rights
and duties applicable to the operator of a bicycle, except in respect to those
provisions relating expressly to motorized foot scooters and in respect to
those provisions of law that by their nature cannot reasonably be applied to
motorized foot scooters.
   (E)   No person may operate a motorized foot scooter upon a sidewalk, except
when necessary to enter or leave adjacent property. No person may operate a
motorized foot scooter that is carrying any person other than the operator.
   (F)   No person under the age of 12 years may operate a motorized foot
scooter.
   (G)   No person under the age of 18 years may operate a motorized foot
scooter without wearing properly fitted and fastened protective headgear that
complies with standards established by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   (H)   A motorized foot scooter must be equipped with a headlight and a
taillight that comply with standards established by the commissioner of Public
Safety if the vehicle is operated under conditions when vehicle lights are
required by law.
   (I)   A person operating a motorized foot scooter on a roadway shall ride as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except in
the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction.
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn, in which case the operator shall
stop and dismount at the right-hand curb or right edge of the roadway, and
shall complete the turn by crossing the roadway on foot, subject to
restrictions placed by law on pedestrians.
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid impediments or conditions that
make it unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge, including, but
not limited to, fixed or moving objects, vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals, surface hazards or narrow lanes.
(Ord. 872, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 71.13 MEDIUM-SPEED ELECTRIC VEHICLES AND NEIGHBORHOOD ELECTRIC VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   MEDIUM SPEED ELECTRIC VEHICLE. An electrically powered four-wheeled
motor vehicle, equipped with a roll cage or crushproof body design, that can
attain a maximum speed of 35 miles per hour on a paved level surface, is fully
enclosed and has at least one door for entry, has a wheelbase of 40 inches or
greater and a wheel diameter of ten inches or greater, and except with respect
to maximum speed, otherwise meets or exceeds regulations in C.F.R., Title 49, §
571.500, and successor requirements.
      (2)   NEIGHBORHOOD ELECTRIC VEHICLE. An electrically powered motor
vehicle that has three or four wheels, and has a speed attainable in one mile
of at least 20 miles per hour, but not more than 25 miles per hour on a paved
level surface.
   (B)   Operation of neighborhood electric vehicles on city streets is
prohibited except as provided in division (C) below.
   (C)   Use on designated exclusive city streets. The City Council may, by
resolution, designate exclusive city streets within its jurisdiction where the
operation of neighborhood electric vehicles or medium-speed electric vehicles
is permissible, provided that no street so designated has a speed limit of more
than 35 miles per hour.
   (D)   A neighborhood electric vehicle or a medium-speed electric vehicle may
be operated on public streets and highways only if it meets all equipment and
vehicle safety requirements in C.F.R, Title 49, § 571.500, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (E)   Authorized city staff may operate city owned neighborhood electric
vehicles and medium-speed electric vehicles within the city on city streets,
sidewalks, trails, rights-of-way, and public property when conducting city
business.
(Ord. 872, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 71.14 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   When prohibited. No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle within
the city limits upon public property or upon private property after the hours
of 10:00 p.m. or before 7:00 a.m., Sunday through Thursday, and after the hours
of midnight or before 7:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday.
(Prior Code, § 19.1-2)
   (B)   Where permitted; limitations.
      (1)   During the hours enumerated in the preceding section, the operation
of all-terrain vehicles will be limited to the following streets:
         (a)   Second Avenue Southwest from CSAH 34 southerly to Fifth Street
southwest;
         (b)   CSAH 34 from Third Avenue southwest to Eighth Avenue southwest;
         (c)   Eighth Avenue southwest and northwest;
         (d)   Fifth Street northwest from Fourth Avenue northwest to the
corporate city limits;
         (e)   Fourth Avenue northwest from Fifth Street northwest to Seventh
Street;
         (f)   Seventh Street northwest and northeast;
         (g)   First Avenue northeast from Main Street to Seventh Street
northeast;
         (h)   Fifth Street from Second Avenue southwest to Second Avenue
southeast;
         (i)   Commerce Drive southeast;
         (j)   Third Street southeast;
         (k)   Eighth Avenue southeast from CSAH 34 to Third Street southeast;
         (l)   Fifth Avenue northeast from Seventh Street northeast to
Sixteenth Street northeast;
         (m)   Sixteenth Street northeast from Fifth Avenue northeast to the
corporate city limits;
         (n)   Mantorville Avenue south from Fifth Street to the corporate city
limits;
         (o)   Eighth Street southwest; and
         (p)   West Main Street from Eighth Avenue northwest to the corporate
city limits.
      (2)   No all-terrain vehicle shall cross Main Street between Eighth
Avenue northwest and First Avenue northeast.
      (3)   It is unlawful to operate an all-terrain vehicle upon private
property without written permission of the owner or person entitled to
possession and use of the property, and upon any school grounds, park property,
playgrounds or recreation area or any other public property.
      (4)   All all-terrain vehicles operated on the above-described streets
shall only use that portion of the roadway ordinarily used for vehicular
traffic.
(Prior Code, §19.1-3)
   (C)   Right-of-way; obedience to state law.
      (1)   All-terrain vehicles shall, at all times, yield the right-of-way at
every intersection and shall be operated in accordance with the state traffic
laws and the provisions of this code and other ordinances of the city.
      (2)   Anyone operating an all-terrain vehicle in the city must have a
valid driver’s license and insurance.
(Prior Code, §19.1-4)
   (D)   Speed limits. It is unlawful to operate an all-terrain vehicle within
the corporate city limits of the city at a rate of speed greater than 25 mph.
(Prior Code, §19.1-5)
(Ord. 804, passed --; Ord. 827, passed 6-11-2008; Ord. 872, passed 6-13-2018)
Penalty, see §
71.99
MOTORHOMES AND TRAVEL TRAILERS
§ 71.50 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTORHOME AND TRAVEL TRAILER. Any vehicle or structure designed and
constructed in a manner as will permit the use or occupancy thereof as sleeping
or living quarters for one or more persons, and so designed or constructed that
it is or may be mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on highways and
streets, whether propelled or drawn by its own or other motive power. It
includes a TRAILER COACH or TRAILER.
(Prior Code, § 21-5) (Ord. 454, passed - -; Ord. 868, passed 8-23-2017)
§ 71.51 PARKING AND USE ON PUBLIC STREETS AND GROUNDS.
   No motorhome or travel trailer shall be used or occupied as living or
sleeping quarters while on the public streets, alleys or public grounds in the
city, except for loading and unloading purposes and except on public grounds
designated or authorized for use or occupancy by motorhomes or travel trailers.
Parking of motorhomes or trailers shall be in accordance with the parking
ordinances of the city as now or hereafter adopted.
(Prior Code, § 21-6) (Ord. 454, passed - -; Ord. 868, passed 8-23-2017)
§ 71.52 USE OR OCCUPANCY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No motorhome or travel trailer shall be used or occupied as living or
sleeping quarters for more than three days in any 12-month period while located
on any private premises in the city other than a licensed trailer coach park.
(Prior Code, § 21-7) (Ord. 454, passed - -; Ord. 868, passed 8-23-2017)
§ 71.53 SEWER AND TOILET FACILITIES.
   No motorhome or travel trailer shall be used or occupied as living or
sleeping quarters while parked on any public or private premises in the city at
any time unless sewer, water and toilet facilities are available 24 hours on
the premises where the motorhome or travel trailer is located or are available
within ten feet of the trailer on premises immediately adjoining the premises
where the trailer is located.
(Prior Code, § 21-8) (Ord. 454, passed - -; Ord. 868, passed 8-23-2017)
§ 71.54 DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND THE LIKE; REMOVAL OF WHEELS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or the owner of any motorhome or
travel trailer to permit or allow any person to deposit or cast upon any
street, alley, upon the surface of any public grounds or upon the surface of
any private premises in the city any rubbish, garbage or other refuse or any
waste water or waste from any sink, shower or other fixture in a motorhome or
travel trailer. All rubbish, garbage or other refuse shall be placed in proper
containers and disposed of as required by this code or other ordinances of the
city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or the owner of any motorhome or
travel trailer to permit any person to remove the wheels or running gear.
(Prior Code, § 21-9) (Ord. 454, passed - -; Ord. 868, passed 8-23-2017)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
71.02 is a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 19-6)
   (C)   Violation of §
71.41 is a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 19.1-6)
(Ord. 645, passed - -; Ord. 804, passed - -)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
         
91.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
         
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
93.   TREES
         
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
95.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
         
96.   FAIR HOUSING; RENTAL HOUSING
         
97.   CEMETERY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Dog license required; tags
   
90.03   Keeping or harboring prohibited
   
90.04   Animals at large
   
90.05   Barking, nuisances, property damage and fecal clean-up
   
90.06   Rabies control
   
90.07   Dangerous and potentially dangerous animals
   
90.08   Dangerous animals
   
90.09   Potentially dangerous animals
   
90.10   Animal biting; quarantine
   
90.11   Animals subject to impoundment
   
90.12   Redemption
   
90.13   Disposition of unredeemed animals
   
90.14   Interference with officers
   
90.15   Service animals
   
90.16   Kennels; license required
Chickens
   
90.30   Definitions
   
90.31   Purpose and intent
   
90.32   Permit required; number limited
   
90.33   Conditions and restrictions
   
90.34   Confinement
   
90.35   Sanitary conditions
   
90.36   Inspections
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the
following words shall be defined to mean:
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The city staff charged with the duty of picking up
and impounding unlicensed dogs, strays, and abandoned animals as herein
provided.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the city for the purpose or
impounding or caring for animals held under the authority of this chapter.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner, or other competent person, by leash not exceeding eight feet in length.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal that has:
      (1)   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a human
being on public or private property; or
      (2)   Killed or caused substantial bodily harm to a domestic animal
without provocation while off the owner's property; or
      (3)   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner has
notice that the animal is potentially dangerous, the animal aggressively bites,
attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals; or
      (4)   Been declared a dangerous dog pursuant to Minnesota Statutes by the
animal control authority of another jurisdiction.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any various non-venomous animals domesticated so as to live
and breed in a tame condition. Domestic animals do not include any animal
considered NON-DOMESTIC as defined by this section. DOMESTIC ANIMALS are
limited to:
      (1)   Dogs;
      (2)   Cats;
      (3)   Rabbits;
      (4)   Ferrets;
      (5)   Any of the class of Aves (birds) that are caged and otherwise kept
inside the residence, specifically excluding poultry;
      (6)   Any of the order of Rodentia such as mice, rats, gerbils, hamsters,
chinchillas and guinea pigs;
      (7)   Any of the class of Reptilia such as snakes, lizards, and turtles
excepting those meeting the NON-DOMESTIC ANIMAL definition; and
      (8)   Any of the class of Amphibian such as salamanders, frogs, toads
excepting those meeting the NON-DOMESTIC ANIMAL definition.
   KENNEL. Any place, building, tract of land, abode, or vehicle where four or
more dogs over the age of six months are kept and maintained. KENNEL does not
include a veterinarian licensed to practice in the State of Minnesota who
keeps, congregates or confines dogs in the normal pursuit of the practice of
veterinary medicine. KENNEL does not include an animal shelter owned and
operated by any political subdivision of the state or providing animal
sheltering services under contract with any political subdivision of the state.
   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Those animals considered to be naturally wild and not
naturally trained or domesticated; or which are considered to be farm animals
or inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of people. Unless
otherwise defined, NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS shall include:
      (1)   Any member of the cat family (Felidae) including, but not limited
to, lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding those
recognized as domesticated house cats.
      (2)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (Canidae) including,
but not limited to, wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding
those recognized as domesticated dogs.
      (3)   Any hybrid or crossbreeds between an animal defined in divisions
(1) or (2) and a domestic animal and offspring from all subsequent generations
of those hybrids or crosses, such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog.
      (4)   Any member or relative of the mammal family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, or squirrel, but excluding those members
otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
      (5)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting (when snake is of size
causing inherent risk to humans), or inherently dangerous member of the reptile
or amphibian families including, but not limited to, rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
      (6)   Goats, pigs (including pot bellied pigs), poultry, horses, cattle,
llama, bison.
      (7)   Any other animal that is not explicitly listed above but which can
be reasonably defined by the terms of this section including, but not limited
to exotic animals, human primates, bear, deer, elk, ducks, and game fish.
   OWNER. Any person, keeper, custodian or legal entity owning, harboring or
keeping an animal, whether temporary or permanent.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
      (1)   When unprovoked, bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or
private property; or
      (2)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person, including a person
on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private property,
other than the animal owner's property, in an apparent attitude of attack; or
      (3)   A known history or propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
while unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans
or domestic animals; or
      (4)   Been declared a potentially dangerous dog pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes by the animal control authority of another jurisdiction.
   PREMISES. Any building, structure, shelter or land whereupon animals are
kept or confined.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and
providing protection from the elements for the animal. A proper enclosure does
not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure
that would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or
structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the
only obstacles that prevent the animal from exiting.
   PROVOCATION. An act that an adult could reasonably expect may cause an
animal to attack or bite.
   SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM. Bodily injury which involves a temporary but
substantial disfigurement, or which causes a temporary but substantial loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ, or which causes a
fracture of any bodily member.
   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely agitated or
disturbed. It is a rebuttable presumption that any attack on a child 14 years
of age or younger for which a reasonable person connotes an intent to inflict
bodily harm will be considered to be unprovoked unless the child is engaged in
the commission of a crime or illegal activity, including activities classified
under Minnesota Statutes as cruelty to animals.
(Ord. 857, passed 10-14-2015; Ord. 869, passed 9-13-2017; Ord. 6.2-2021, passed
6-23-2021)
§ 90.02 DOG LICENSE REQUIRED; TAGS.
   (A)   License required. It will be unlawful for any person to own, keep or
harbor any dog or dogs over six months of age within the city, without having
obtained a license.
      (1)   Dog licenses. No license will be issued for any dog unless the
applicant presents proof of vaccination from a licensed veterinarian as proof
that the dog has been immunized as required by §
90.06.
      (2)   Information required. The owner is required to state the dog's
name, sex, breed, color and any other information required by the Chief of
Police on each license application.
      (3)   Date of payment of license fee. It is the duty of the owner of a
dog required to be licensed to pay the license fee on or before January 1 of
each year, or upon acquiring ownership or possession of an unlicensed dog, or
upon establishing residence in the city. All licenses will expire on the last
day of December of the same calendar year following its issuance, unless a
lifetime license is purchased. If any owner does not obtain a license for his/
her dog by this date, a late license fee will be added onto the regular dog
license fee.
      (4)   Non-refundable. No refunds will be made on any dog license fee
because of the removal of the dog from the city or because of the death of the
dog before the expiration of the license period.
   (B)   Tags.
      (1)   Generally. Upon approval of a dog license application, the
applicant will be provided with a tag which shall be permanently fastened to
the collar of the dog in such manner that the tag may be seen easily, and the
tag will be worn constantly by such dog.
      (2)   Duplicate tags. When any dog tag is lost, a duplicate may be issued
upon presentation of a receipt showing the payment of the license fee for the
then current year. Fees for duplicate tags will be established by City Council.
      (3)   Offenses involving tags. It is unlawful to counterfeit, or attempt
to counterfeit, the tags provided for in this section or to remove from any dog
a tag legally placed upon it with the intent of placing it upon another dog, or
to place such tag upon another dog. It is unlawful for any person to transfer
any tag issued, or to place a tag upon any dog other than the one for which it
was issued, provided a tag may be transferred with the dog for which it was
issued.
(Ord. 857, passed 10-14-2015; Ord. 866, passed 6-14-2017)
§ 90.03 KEEPING OR HARBORING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No residential address shall own, care for, have custody or
control of more than three dogs within the city limits.
      (2)   No person shall own, care for, have custody or control of, within
the city limits, any non-domestic animal as defined in this chapter.
      (3)   Exceptions. An exception may be made to this prohibition for the
following: non-domestic animals within the City's Agricultural Zoning District
as specifically provided within the city's Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   Restrictions on food and drink establishments. It is unlawful for the
owner or operator of any establishment wherein the selling, handling,
processing or preparation of food is done to permit any animal in such
establishment except as allowed by Minnesota Statutes.
(Ord. 857, passed 10-14-2015; Ord. 6.2-2021, passed 6-23-2021)
§ 90.04 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   It will be unlawful for any person having or maintaining any animal to
permit the animal to be at large or to be upon any premises other than as
provided in the permit whether or not a permit for such animal has been issued
as provided under the licensing and permit provisions of this chapter or other
ordinances of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any owner to allow a domestic animal to be at large
at any time.
   (C)   Dog parks. Dogs are permitted to be unleashed in off leash dog park
areas as designated by the city under the following conditions:
      (1)   The dog owner or owner's designee as allowed by park rules must be
present; and
      (2)   The dog must be under the voice control of the owner at all times;
and
      (3)   Feces must be properly removed and disposed of; and
      (4)   A dog deemed a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal under this
chapter is not permitted to use off leash areas.
(Ord. 857, passed 10-14-2015)
§ 90.05 BARKING, NUISANCES, PROPERTY DAMAGE AND FECAL CLEAN-UP.
   (A)   Barking. No person will keep or harbor a dog which habitually barks,
cries, howls or whines for a period of six or more minutes out of a ten
consecutive minute period.
   (B)   Nuisance noise. It is unlawful for any owner to maintain at any place
within the city any animals which, by their habitual whining, barking, howling
or other disagreeable noises, disturbs the people in the locality where kept.
   (C)   Damage to property by animals prohibited. No person having the custody
or control of a dog, cat or other animal will permit the animal to damage any
lawn, garden or other property, public or private, or to defecate on private
property, without the consent of the property owner.
   (D)   (1)   Fecal clean-up. It is the duty of each person having the custody
or control of a dog, cat or other animal to voluntarily and promptly remove any
feces left by such dog or animal on any sidewalk, gutter, street, park land or
other public property, or any public area, and to dispose of the feces in a
sanitary manner and to have in immediate possession a device or equipment for
the picking up and removal of feces. For the purpose of this division, PUBLIC
AREA will include any property open for public use or travel, even though it is
privately owned.
      (2)   Exception. The provisions of this division do not apply to a guide
dog or service animal accompanying a blind person or to a dog when used in
police or rescue activities by or with the permission of the city. This
division will not be construed by implication or otherwise to allow dogs to be
where they are otherwise prohibited by the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 857, passed 10-14-2015)
§ 90.06 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   (1)   Dogs and cats rabies immunization required. All dogs and cats
over the age of six months harbored or maintained within the city shall be
immunized against rabies by a licensed veterinarian. The vaccines used and
their duration of immunity against rabies will be as recommended by the
National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians (NASPHV) in their
current Compendium of Animal Rabies Prevention and Control.
      (2)   Exceptions. No dog or cat need be vaccinated when a licensed
veterinarian has examined the animal and certified that, at such time,
vaccination would endanger its health because of its age, infirmity, debility,
illness, or other medical consideration; and such exception certificate is
presented to the city. The animal shall be vaccinated against rabies as soon as
its health and age permit.
   (B)   Exposure. Dogs, cats or other animals known to have been bitten by or
exposed to a rabid animal must be euthanized or the animal's owner must adhere
to procedures as described in the NAHSPV Compendium of Animal Rabies Prevention
and Control. Notification of exposure shall be made immediately to the city.
Costs associated with exposure are incurred at the animal owner's expense.
   (C)   Disposition of diseased dogs, cats or other animals. If a dog, cat or
other animal quarantined under §
90.10 is found to be sick or diseased, the operator of the quarantine facility
will immediately report in writing to the city on the condition of the dog or
animal. The city may then take possession of the dog, cat or animal for the
purpose of submitting it to determine if it is suffering from rabies. A
diseased dog, cat or animal may be euthanized, if the city determines such
action necessary for the protection of public health and safety, or as
recommended by a licensed veterinarian.
(Ord. 857, passed 10-14-2015)
§ 90.07 DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Designation as a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal. The Animal
Control Officer or their designee will designate any animal as a dangerous or
potentially dangerous animal upon receiving evidence that such animal meets the
definition set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Exemption. Animals may not be designated as dangerous or potentially
dangerous if the threat, injury, or damage was sustained by a person who was:
      (1)   Committing, at the time, a willful trespass or other tort upon the
premises occupied by the owner of the animal;
      (2)   Provoking, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal or who can
be shown to have repeatedly, in the past, provoked, tormented, abused, or
assaulted the animal; or
      (3)   Committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   (C)   Notification and procedure. When an animal is declared dangerous or
potentially dangerous, the owner(s) of the dangerous or potentially dangerous
animal shall be notified in writing that such animal is dangerous or
potentially dangerous.
      (1)   Notice of right to appeal. This notice shall state the date, time,
place, the animal bit, chased, attacked or threatened, and shall advise the
owner that they have 14 days to appeal the determination by requesting a
hearing before the independent hearing officer.
      (2)   The owner of the animal must immediately comply with the proper
enclosure requirements, as defined in this chapter, even if appealing the
designation.
      (3)   Written notice of the designation may either be mailed by first
class US mail or by personally delivering the notice to the owner of the animal
declared as dangerous or potentially dangerous.
   (D)   Noncompliance of order. If an owner of a dangerous or potentially
dangerous animal fails to comply with any conditions for dangerous or
potentially dangerous animals specified in this chapter and fails to request a
hearing within 14 days of the designation, the animal shall be seized.
      (1)   Notice shall be provided to the owner of the basis for the seizure
and the right to request a hearing before an independent hearing officer to
determine whether the conditions were violated.
      (2)   A request for hearing must be made within 14 days of the seizure.
If the owner fails to request a hearing within 14 days, or after a hearing, is
found to have violated the conditions, the Animal Control Officer may order the
animal destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the
costs of confining the animal. If the owner is found not to have violated the
conditions, the owner may reclaim the animal.
   (E)   An owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal must notify
the Police Chief in writing within 14 days of any transfer to a new owner or
location, or death of the animal. This notification shall include proof of
death or the complete name, address and telephone number of the person to whom
the dog has been transferred or the address where the dog has been relocated.
   (F)   Review of designation. Beginning six months after an animal's
dangerous or potentially dangerous designation, an owner may request in writing
that the designation be reviewed by the Animal Control Officer or their
designee. The owner must also provide evidence that the dog's behavior has
changed and that no violation of this chapter has occurred during that time
period. The city may use discretion in determining whether any conditions which
have been ordered are still required.
   (G)   Limitation on additional animals. After an owner has had an animal
designated as dangerous or potentially dangerous, the owner will not be
eligible for additional animal permits or licenses until documentation is
provided to the Police Chief that the dangerous/potentially dangerous animal
has either died, has been relocated to another suitable owner, or had the
designation removed.
(Ord. 857, passed 10-14-2015)
§ 90.08 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Disposition of dangerous animals.  The Community Service Officer or
Police Officer, after designation of an animal as dangerous has the authority
to determine the disposition of the dangerous animal.
      (1)   The dangerous animal will be euthanized; or
      (2)   The dangerous animal will be subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Housed in a proper enclosure. Proper enclosure means securely
confined indoors or in a securely locked pen or structure suitable to prevent
the animal from escaping and to provide protection for the animal from the
elements. A proper enclosure does not include a porch, patio, or any part of a
house, garage, or other structure that would allow the animal to exit of its
own volition, or any house or structure in which windows are open or in which
door or window screens are the only barriers which prevent the animal from
exiting. Such enclosure will not allow the egress of the animal in any manner
without human assistance. A pen or kennel for a dog designated as dangerous
will meet the following minimum specifications:
            1.   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
            2.   Sidewalls will have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire will not exceed
two inches, support posts will be one and one-quarter inch or larger steel pipe
buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided,
the sidewalls will be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
            3.   A cover over the entire pen or kennel will be provided. The
cover will be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and will also have no openings greater than two inches.
            4.   An entrance/exit gate will be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and will also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate will be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and will be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel; and
         (b)   Insurance. The owner provides and shows proof annually of public
liability insurance paid in full in the minimum amount of $500,000. If the
animal is impounded, proof of insurance must be demonstrated prior to the
animal's release; and
         (c)   Posting. Post the front and rear of the premises with clearly
visible warning signs including a warning symbol to inform children, that there
is a dangerous animal on the property as specified in M.S. § 347.51; and
         (d)   Muzzle. If the animal is a dog and is outside the proper
enclosure, the dog must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or
leash not to exceed six feet in length and be under the physical restraint of a
person 18 years of age or older. The muzzle must be of such design as to
prevent the dog from biting any person or animal, but will not cause injury to
the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration; and
         (e)   Microchip identification required. The owner of a dangerous
animal is required to have a microchip installed or injected on the animal, to
the extent that the species of the animal allows placement of the chip. The
microchip will be installed in or injected under the skin of the animal by a
licensed veterinarian and will be designed so that, when scanned by an
electronic reader, it is capable of providing the identification of the
animal's owner. The identification number and microchip manufacturer shall be
provided to the Animal Control Officer. The owner shall maintain current
address information with the manufacturer. All costs related to the
installation and maintenance of the chip are the responsibility of the owner.
If the animal is impounded, the microchip will be installed or injected prior
to its release; and
         (f)   Annual registration fee. The owner of a dangerous dog is
required to complete an annual registration form and pay annual registration
fee as set by the City Council, in addition to the annual dog license. If the
dog is impounded the fee will be paid prior to the animal's release; and
         (g)   Spay/neuter. If the animal is a dog or cat, the owner shall
provide proof of spay or neuter; and
         (h)   Tag. A dangerous dog registered under this section must have a
standardized, easily identifiable tag identifying the dog as dangerous and
containing the uniform dangerous dog symbol, affixed to the dog's collar at all
times; and
         (i)   Obedience class. The owner of a dog shall be required to
complete an approved dog obedience class.
   (B)   Appeal. Appeal of the animal control officer's dangerous animal
designation will be a hearing before an independent hearing examiner not more
than 14 days after receipt of the appeal request. At the time of the hearing,
the animal owner may appear and present any evidence which the animal owner may
deem material to the investigation. The hearing officer will make findings of
fact as to whether a violation of the provisions of this section has been
committed. The hearing officer will affirm or reject the dangerous animal
designation or may impose other sanctions as warranted. The hearing officer's
decision shall issue within ten days of the hearing. If the declaration is
upheld, the actual expenses of the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000 will be
the responsibility of the animal's owner.
(Ord. 857, passed 10-14-2015)
§ 90.09 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   Animal subject to conditions. An animal that has been determined to be
potentially dangerous shall do the following:
   (A)   The animal shall be required to be restrained by leash not to exceed
six feet in length, and/or muzzled, and under the control of a person 18 years
of age or older at all times it is outdoors and not inside a proper enclosure;
   (B)   Spay/neuter. If the animal is a dog or cat, the owner shall provide
proof of spay or neuter;
   (C)   Obedience class. The owner of a dog shall be required to complete an
approved dog obedience class; and
   (D)   Microchip identification required. The owner of a potentially
dangerous animal shall have a microchip installed or injected on the animal, to
the extent that the species of the animal allows placement of the chip. The
microchip will be installed in or injected under the skin of the animal by a
licensed veterinarian and will be designed so that, when scanned by an
electronic reader, it is capable of providing the identification of the
animal's owner. The identification number and microchip manufacturer shall be
provided to the Animal Control Officer. The owner shall maintain current
address information with the manufacturer. All costs related to the
installation and maintenance of the chip are the responsibility of the owner.
If the animal is impounded, the microchip will be installed or injected prior
to its release.
(Ord. 857, passed 10-14-2015)
§ 90.10 ANIMAL BITING; QUARANTINE.
   (A)   Animal biting. Whenever any animal capable of transmitting the rabies
virus has bitten any person or domestic animal, the owner or custodian of the
biting animal, upon being notified by the Animal Control Officer, will
immediately cause the animal to be quarantined at the animal shelter, or by a
veterinarian licensed to practice in the State of Minnesota and approved by the
city, for a period of ten days after the bite incident. The Animal Control
Officer may allow the owner to quarantine the animal if proof of current rabies
vaccination is provided. All expenses related to any quarantine will be the
responsibility of the animal owner.
   (B)   (1)   Release from quarantine. At the end of ten days, a licensed
veterinarian shall examine the animal to ascertain whether symptoms of rabies
exist. If the veterinarian diagnoses the animal to be free of the signs of
rabies, the animal shall be released from quarantine.
      (2)   If a quarantined animal sickens or dies, it shall be sent to the
Minnesota Department of Health for rabies testing. The owner of the animal is
responsible for the cost of quarantine, veterinary fees and testing.
   (C)   Noncompliance of order. If an owner fails to comply with any portion
of the quarantine, the animal shall be seized and impounded for the remainder
of the quarantine period. The animal may be reclaimed by the owner as set forth
in this chapter.
(Ord. 857, passed 10-14-2015)
§ 90.11 ANIMALS SUBJECT TO IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Dogs. The Animal Control Officer or any duly authorized assistant may
impound any dog found in the city without the currently effective tag provided
for in this chapter; or any dog found at large at any time within the city.
   (B)   Cats. It will be lawful for the Animal Control Officer or any duly
authorized assistant to take up and impound any cat found in the city without a
currently effective rabies vaccination as provided for in this chapter; or any
cat found at large at any time within the city.
   (C)   Other animals. Any animal considered at large is subject to
impoundment.
(Ord. 857, passed 10-14-2015)
§ 90.12 REDEMPTION.
   Animals may be redeemed from the animal shelter by the owner any time,
during office hours, within five business days after seizure and impounding,
upon a statement of ownership, proof that a license has been issued for a dog,
and proof of payment to the city of the impounding fee, including the cost of
caring for the animal during the impound period. The animal will be released to
the owner, unless it is being held for rabies observation or for potentially
dangerous or dangerous dog designation. The amount of the fee will be the
amount established by the City Council.
(Ord. 857, passed 10-14-2015)
§ 90.13 DISPOSITION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMALS.
   Any animal that is not redeemed by the owner becomes the property of the
city. Suitable animals may be placed for adoption.
(Ord. 857, passed 10-14-2015)
§ 90.14 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to break open the animal shelter,
or to attempt to do so, or to take or let out any animal, or to take, or
attempt to take, from any Animal Control Officer any animal taken by them in
compliance with this chapter, or in any manner to interfere with or hinder such
Animal Control Officer in the discharge of their duties under this chapter.
(Ord. 857, passed 10-14-2015)
§ 90.15 SERVICE ANIMALS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit:
   (A)   The right of a person with disabilities to access places of public
accommodation while accompanied by a service animal as provided in Minnesota
Statutes; or
   (B)   The lawful use of a service animal by a licensed peace officer.
(Ord. 857, passed 10-14-2015)
§ 90.16 KENNELS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person will maintain a kennel within the city except in a location
permitted by the zoning and subdivision code as a commercial kennel. The kennel
license fee will be fixed from time to time by the Council and will be obtained
in the same manner as the dog license. The license will expire annually on the
last day of December of each year.
(Ord. 857, passed 10-14-2015; Ord. 6.2-2021, passed 6-23-2021)
CHICKENS
§ 90.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, unless the context otherwise indicates,
the following terms shall be defined to mean:
   CHICKEN COOP. A stationary or movable structure made of wood or other
durable construction materials that provides shelter from the elements
exclusively for chickens.
   CHICKEN RUN. A fenced, outside area for keeping chickens.
(Ord. 864, passed 1-10-2018)
§ 90.31 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is recognized that the ability to cultivate one's own food is a
sustainable activity that can also be a rewarding pastime. Therefore, it is the
purpose and intent of this subchapter to permit the keeping and maintenance of
chicken hens for eggs in a clean and sanitary manner that is not a nuisance to,
or detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare of the community, the
keeping of other poultry is prohibited.
(Ord. 864, passed 1-10-2018)
§ 90.32 PERMIT REQUIRED; NUMBER LIMITED.
   No person shall keep or harbor chickens on any premises within the City of
Kasson unless the city has granted them a permit. No permit shall be issued for
the keeping of any more than six hen chickens on any premises up to 15,840
square feet in area. No permit shall be issued for the keeping of any more than
12 hen chickens on any premises over 15,840 square feet. No permit shall be
issued for the keeping of a rooster on any premises. No permit is required in
the AG District. No permit shall be issued for other than a single-family
detached unit. Permits under this section shall expire one year from the date
the permit is issued. Permits must be renewed on an annual basis.
(Ord. 864, passed 1-10-2018)
§ 90.33 CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The permit shall be subject to all terms and conditions of this subchapter
and any additional conditions deemed necessary by the City Council to protect
the public health, safety and welfare. The necessary permit applications will
be available in the city's Animal Control Office. An initial fee and/or a
renewal fee, which the City Council may establish from time to time, shall be
charged for each permit. Permits shall be effective for one year and may be
renewed for additional one-year periods. The city may revoke any permit issued
under this subchapter if the person holding the permit refuses or fails to
comply with this subchapter, with any regulations promulgated by the City
Council pursuant to this subchapter, or with any state or local law governing
cruelty to animals or the keeping of animals. Any person whose permit is
revoked shall, within ten days thereafter humanely dispose of all chickens
being owned, kept or harbored by such person, and no part of the permit fee
shall be refunded. Dead chickens must be disposed of according to the Minnesota
Board of Animal Health rules which, require chicken carcasses to be disposed of
as soon as possible after death, usually within 48 to 72 hours. Legal forms of
chicken carcass disposal include burial, offsite incineration or rendering, or
offsite composting. Slaughtering of chickens on the property is prohibited.
(Ord. 864, passed 1-10-2018)
§ 90.34 CONFINEMENT.
   Chickens must be confined at all times in a chicken coop or chicken run.
Chicken coops and chicken runs shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   The location of the chicken coop or run shall comply with the setback
requirements for accessory structures in the zoning district in which the
property lies; and shall be located in the rear or side yard of the property
and all chickens must be kept in a manner that does not constitute a nuisance
to the occupants of adjacent properties.
   (B)   Whether moveable or stationary chicken coops shall not exceed 60
square feet (by outside dimensions) or six feet in height and must provide at
least two square feet per chicken. Coops must be elevated with a clear, open
space of at least 24 inches between the ground and the floor or framing of the
coop.
   (C)   Chicken runs must not exceed 120 square feet or six feet in height and
must be completely enclosed with woven wire or wood.
   (D)   Chicken feed must be stored in rodent and raccoon-proof containers.
(Ord. 864, passed 1-10-2018)
§ 90.35 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   The premises where chickens are kept must be maintained in a healthy and
sanitary condition and in a manner that will prevent noxious or offensive odors
from being carried to adjacent properties.
(Ord. 864, passed 1-10-2018)
§ 90.36 INSPECTIONS.
   Any chicken coop or run may be inspected at any reasonable time by the city
Animal Control Officer to determine compliance with this subchapter and the
applicable permit.
(Ord. 864, passed 1-10-2018)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this subchapter is a misdemeanor. Any person violating any
conditions of the permit or this subchapter shall reimburse the city for all
costs borne by the city to enforce the conditions of the permit including but
not limited to the pickup and impounding of chickens.
(Ord. 857, passed 10-14-2015;Ord. 864, passed 1-10-2018)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
Dangerous Liquids
   
91.01   Definition
   
91.02   Permit required; issuance; fee; term; revocation
   
91.03   Gasoline or benzine receptacles
   
91.04   Storage generally
   
91.05   Aboveground tanks
   
91.06   Underground tanks
   
91.07   Service stations
   
91.08   Garages
   
91.09   Miscellaneous regulations
   
91.10   Inspection of installations and the like
Statutory reference:
   Power of city to establish fire department and prevent fires, see M.S. §
412.221(17)
DANGEROUS LIQUIDS
§ 91.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS LIQUIDS. Gasoline, naphtha, benzol and liquified petroleum gas.
(Prior Code, § 9-6) (Ord. 479, passed - -)
§ 91.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; ISSUANCE; FEE; TERM; REVOCATION.
   (A)   No person shall transport, or possess, more than six gallons of any
dangerous liquids in any building or more than 12 gallons outside of any
building without a permit.
(Prior Code, § 9-7)
   (B)   Any person desiring a permit for the transportation or possession of
dangerous liquids shall apply therefor to the City Administrator on a form
provided at the City Hall. The application shall be approved by the Fire Chief
or the Fire Marshal if, upon inspection, it shall be determined that the
granting of a permit will not materially cause or increase a fire hazard. Upon
receipt of an approved permit application and the payment of a permit fee in an
amount determined by City Council, the City Administrator shall issue a permit
to the applicant for the purpose stated in the application. The permit shall be
valid for one year from its issuance, subject to revocation by the City Council
upon 30 days’ notice and hearing if, at any time in the judgment of the City
Council or Fire Chief or Fire Marshal, its continuance would endanger public
safety.
(Prior Code, § 9-8)
(Ord. 479, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 GASOLINE OR BENZINE RECEPTACLES.
   No person shall sell, place or cause to be sold or placed any gasoline or
benzine in quantities greater than one pint and less than six gallons in any
receptacles, other than attached vehicular tanks, except receptacles of a
bright red color labeled in large plain letters with the name of the contents,
or sell or place any other liquid in a receptacle.
(Prior Code, § 9-9) (Ord. 479, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 STORAGE GENERALLY.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the storage of dangerous
liquids shall be outside buildings, in underground or aboveground tanks.
(Prior Code, § 9-10) (Ord. 479, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 ABOVEGROUND TANKS.
   (A)   Location. All aboveground tanks shall be constructed at a reasonable
distance, as determined by the Fire Chief or the Fire Marshal from adjoining
property lines, other storage tanks and railroad tracks, as well as at least 50
yards from places of human inhabitation and public assembly.
   (B)   Fences; dikes. Fences to keep loiterers away and dikes to confine
escaping liquids, in case of collapse or leakage of storage tanks, may be
required to be built around aboveground storage tanks as public safety demands
in the judgment of the City Council, the Fire Chief or the Fire Marshal.
   (C)   Construction; warning signs; height. All aboveground tanks shall be
built on a firm, fireproof foundation; shall be electrically grounded; shall be
painted with rust resisting paint; shall be conspicuously marked in letters at
least three inches high, "Inflammable, Keep Flames Away"; and shall be fitted
with safety valves. No vertical tank shall extend more than 30 feet above
ground.
(Prior Code, § 9-11) (Ord. 479, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 UNDERGROUND TANKS.
   All underground tanks shall conform to the following regulations.
   (A)   Location. All underground tanks shall be constructed at a reasonable
distance, to be determined by the Fire Chief or the Fire Marshal, from
adjoining property lines, other tanks, railroad tracks and places of human
inhabitation and public assembly.
   (B)   Depth; generally. All underground tanks shall be buried with the tip
of the tank at least three feet under the surface of the ground and below any
piping to which the tank may be connected.
   (C)   Under buildings. When located underneath a building, underground tanks
shall be buried with the top of the tank not less than two feet below the level
of the basement floor. The floor above the tank shall be of reinforced concrete
at least nine inches thick extending 12 inches beyond the outline of the tank
in all directions.
   (D)   Placement under streets and the like prohibited. No underground tank
may be installed under any street, alley, public ground or sidewalk.
   (E)   Foundation. Underground tanks shall be set on a firm foundation,
enclosed in and surrounded with, soft earth or sand well tamped into place or
enclosed in concrete.
   (F)   Pumps.
      (1)   All pumps, other than service station pumps, connected to
underground tanks shall be protected by a barrier equivalent to two-inch pipe.
      (2)   The barrier shall extend above the surface of the ground at least
three feet and below the surface of the ground at least two feet. Barriers must
be approved by the Fire Chief or Fire Marshal.
   (G)   Venting; electrical ground. Underground tanks shall be, upon the
approval of the Fire Chief or Fire Marshal, properly vented and all electrical
connections shall be properly grounded.
(Prior Code, § 9-12) (Ord. 479, passed - -)
§ 91.07 SERVICE STATIONS.
   (A)   Underground tanks required. All tanks used for the storage of
dangerous liquids at stations maintained for giving service to motor vehicles
shall be underground tanks.
   (B)   Delivery to tanks. Delivery of dangerous liquids from tank wagons or
cars to the underground storage tank shall be made solely through the filling
pipe of the tank wagon or car.
   (C)   Delivery from tanks. Delivery of dangerous liquids from the storage
tank shall be made through pumps, mechanically perfect and so constructed as to
prevent leaking or splashing.
   (D)   Construction generally; heating facilities. Buildings used as service
stations shall be constructed of fire resistant materials and heated by steam
or hot water, the heating plant to be enclosed within a fireproof room. Service
stations already constructed shall not be obliged to comply with this
requirement, but in no event shall they be heated by stoves.
   (E)   Delivery to vehicle with running motor prohibited. No person shall
dispense any dangerous liquids to a motor vehicle while the motor of the
vehicle is running.
   (F)   Maximum volume allowed. The maximum amount of storage of dangerous
liquids permitted in any service station must comply with state code or
regulations promulgated by state agencies.
(Prior Code, § 9-13) (Ord. 479, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 GARAGES.
   (A)   Generally. The storage of dangerous liquids in and near garages for
use therein or to be dispensed therefrom shall conform to the requirements
hereinabove set forth and the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Maximum volume allowed above ground. The maximum amount of gasoline
permitted aboveground in the work room of a garage is one quart unless the same
shall be in the attached tank of a motor vehicle and securely capped.
   (C)   Sand traps; grease traps. All garages shall be equipped with sand
traps and grease traps which shall be cleaned with sufficient frequency to keep
any sand or dangerous liquids or grease from entering the sewers.
(Prior Code, § 9-14) (Ord. 479, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.09 MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Open flames, smoking and the like in storage or handling areas. No
person shall allow any flames or open fires on any premises where dangerous
materials are stored or handled; nor allow any combustible material to collect
on the premises nor smoke within 50 feet of the premises.
   (B)   Starting or feeding open flames; use of benzine or gasoline for fuel
oil thinner. No person shall use dangerous liquids in starting or feeding any
open flames, except in specially designed burners, nor use benzine or gasoline
as a thinner in fuel oil.
   (C)   Storage or handling in multi-family buildings. No person shall store
or handle any dangerous liquids in any building housing more than one family,
nor allow any dangerous liquids to be fed to any stationary internal combustion
engines or to the burner in any heating system, except by a pump.
   (D)   Location of fuel oil tanks. Fuel oil storage tanks for domestic use
shall be located outside of buildings and underground where practicable; when
located inside a building the above ground storage tank for fuel oil shall not
exceed 275 gallons. When used under the constant direction of an attendant,
fuel oil storage in a commercial building shall not exceed 5,000 gallons, and
in a fire resistant building, 10,000 gallons.
(Prior Code, § 9-15) (Ord. 479, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.10 INSPECTION OF INSTALLATIONS AND THE LIKE.
   The fire chief or fire marshal shall inspect all installations of tanks and
other equipment designed to handle dangerous liquids before the same are placed
in operation; and no person shall use any installation or cover or cause any
such installation to be covered from view before the same has been inspected.
The fire chief or fire marshal shall also make an inspection of all premises
which are under permit and shall require compliance with the terms of this
chapter in all cases by written order which shall state the time within such
compliance shall be made.
(Prior Code, § 9-16) (Ord. 479, passed - -)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Park hours
   
92.02   Bicycles, skateboards, skates and scooters prohibited from certain park
facilities
Park Board
   
92.15   Established; composition; terms of office; vacancies
   
92.16   Removal
   
92.17   Officers; bylaws
   
92.18   Monthly reports
   
92.19   Legal counsel
   
92.20   Statement of receipts and disbursements
   
92.21   Council liaison
   
92.22   Power and duties generally
   
92.23   Planning duties
   
92.24   Budget
   
92.25   Meetings; minutes
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to establish, maintain and the like parks, parkways and
recreational facilities, see M.S. § 412.491
   Park board, see M.S. §§ 412.501 to 412.521
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 PARK HOURS.
   All city parks shall be open to the public from 6:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. each
day of the week. No person, except police officers and city employees, shall be
allowed in any park between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. each day.
Public streets, roadways and parking areas in, through or abutting upon a city
park shall be considered park property and shall be subject to the closing
hours mentioned hereinabove. Specifically, those portions of the Seventh Street
northwest right-of-way and Fourth Avenue northwest right-of-way (including
sidewalks) shall be considered part of Veterans' Memorial Park and shall be
subject to the hours mentioned hereinabove. Public roadways abutting city
parkways shall be open to motor vehicular traffic passing over the rights-of-
way 24 hours per day. However, no person shall loiter about the rights-of-way
(including sidewalks) abutting city parks between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m. each day. The ordinance codified in this section shall take effect
and be enforced from and after its passage and publication.
(Prior Code, § 15.1-1) (Ord. 734, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, SKATES AND SCOOTERS PROHIBITED FROM CERTAIN PARK
FACILITIES.
   Bicycles, skateboards, skates, scooters and other wheeled recreational
devices are prohibited from tennis courts, basketball courts and all other park
structures including, but not limited to, gazebos, picnic shelters, stairways,
ramps and bleachers. The above-mentioned recreational devices may be used on
parkway structures specifically designed for use with the recreational devices.
(Prior Code, § 15.1-2) (Ord. 796, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
PARK BOARD
§ 92.15 ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION; TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   By declaration of the full Council, the original Park Board consisting of
five members established pursuant to M.S. § 412.501, as may be amended from
time to time, is hereby increased to seven members. One member of the original
Board shall serve a term of one year, one member of the original Board shall
serve a term of two years and one member of the original Board shall serve a
term of three years. In addition, one new member shall be appointed for an
initial term of two years and one new member shall be appointed for a term of
three years. As the terms of the Board members expire, members shall be
appointed for terms of three years. The number of members may be increased or
decreased within the permitted numbers of three, five, seven or nine by
subsequent resolution or ordinance. No action to change the size of the Board
shall be taken, however, except upon two-thirds vote of all members of the City
Council and no action shall be taken until at least three years after
establishment of the Board or until at least three years after the last
resolution or ordinance modifying the size of the Board. Any vacancies on the
Board shall be filled for the remainder of the original terms.
(Prior Code, § 15.1-6) (Ord. 543, passed - -; Ord. 646, passed - -)
§ 92.16 REMOVAL.
   Any Park Board member shall be automatically terminated from the appointed
position upon three consecutive absences from a regularly scheduled Park Board
meeting without due cause. Advance notice of a member’s inability to attend a
regularly scheduled meeting must be received by the Administrator’s office by
noon of the day prior to the meeting date unless an unforeseen emergency
arises.
(Prior Code, § 15.1-8) (Ord. 543, passed - -; Ord. 704, passed - -)
§ 92.17 OFFICERS; BYLAWS.
   The Board shall choose one of its members as Chair, to be elected at the
annual meeting of the Board. It may select a Secretary either from among its
own members or otherwise and fix the Secretary's compensation at an amount not
to exceed that set by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 15.1-9) (Ord. 764, passed - -)
§ 92.18 MONTHLY REPORTS.
   Monthly written reports of activities shall be submitted to the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 15.1-10) (Ord. 543, passed - -)
§ 92.19 LEGAL COUNSEL.
   The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the Park Board.
(Prior Code, § 15.1-11) (Ord. 543, passed - -)
§ 92.20 STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS.
   The monthly statement of park and recreation receipts and disbursements
shall be a part of the Administrator’s financial statement distributed to the
Mayor and Council every month. The year-end report shall also be included with
the Administrator’s annual financial statement.
(Prior Code, § 15.1-12) (Ord. 543, passed - -)
§ 92.21 COUNCIL LIAISON.
   One member of the City Council shall be appointed each year to the Park
Board Committee and shall act as liaison between the Park Board and Council.
The City Council member shall be a voting member of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 15.1-13) (Ord. 668, passed - -)
§ 92.22 POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The powers and duties of the Park Board are as follows.
   (A)   Land acquisition and control. The Park Board, with Council approval,
may acquire land for park purposes. The Park Board shall have full, absolute
and exclusive control over all property set aside for park purposes, subject
only to Council budgetary consent.
   (B)   Employment. The Park Board shall make recommendations to the Council
for employing necessary personnel and shall also recommend their compensation.
   (C)   Construction: contracts. With Council approval, the Park Board may
construct necessary structures and make improvements in the park areas. The
Board may, with the consent of the Council, make contracts and leases for
construction and operation of park facilities upon terms agreeable and in the
best interest of the city. Every contract and lease shall provide that the
facilities be operated for the public use and convenience and that the charges
shall be reasonable, and it shall reserve to the Park Board the power to
prescribe reasonable rules and regulations from time to time for the conduct of
the privileges.
   (D)   Purchase of supplies, equipment and services. The Park Board may
purchase all necessary materials, supplies, equipment and services as set forth
in the budgeting procedures for all departments in the city, subject to and
with Council approval.
   (E)   Entertainment. The Park Board may provide musical entertainment and
other free entertainment for the general public.
   (F)   Skating and hockey. The Park Board may regulate all areas of ice
skating and their facilities in any park.
   (G)   Additional powers. The Park Board may perform whatever other acts are
reasonable, necessary and proper to carry out the powers specified herein for
the operation, maintenance and management of parks, parkways and recreational
facilities, subject to Council approval as specified herein.
(Prior Code, § 15.1-14) (Ord. 543, passed - -)
§ 92.23 PLANNING DUTIES.
   The Park Board shall be in charge of and have the following planning duties:
   (A)   To do long-range planning regarding the future of the existing parks
and recreational facilities within the city;
   (B)   To develop additional programs for recreation within the city;
   (C)   To study the immediate and long-range park needs of the city;
   (D)   To make recommendations concerning the types of parks to be included
within future developments within the city; and
   (E)   To submit reports and recommendations to the City Council as are
herein required or as may be requested by the City Council concerning the
preceding subjects or other related subjects.
(Prior Code, § 15.1-15) (Ord. 543, passed - -)
§ 92.24 BUDGET.
   The Park Board shall submit a yearly budget to the City Administrator on or
before a date to be specified each year. The budget shall be reviewed in the
same manner as all department budgets within the General Fund. Upon approval by
the City Council, the entire budget shall be certified to the County Auditor
for the annual levy. All claims and disbursements of the Park and Recreation
Department shall be deducted from the approved annual appropriated amount. The
Administrator, upon the request of the Park Board, shall furnish a budget
comparison showing budget appropriations, expenditures and unexpended balance.
All claims for payment of Park Department purchases shall be approved and
initialed by the Park and Recreation Director prior to audit and payment
authorized by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 15.1-16) (Ord. 543, passed - -)
§ 92.25 MEETINGS; MINUTES.
   The Park Board shall hold at least one regular meeting each month, which
shall be on the third Tuesday of the month at 6:30 p.m. A record shall be kept
of resolutions, transactions and findings, and that record shall be available
to the public.
(Prior Code, § 15.1-17) (Ord. 756, passed - -)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
92.01 shall be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 15.1-1) (Ord. 734, passed - -)
CHAPTER 93: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Superintendent; authority over public areas
   
93.02   Certain trees declared nuisances
   
93.03   Permitting nuisance to remain
   
93.04   Inspection of premises by Superintendent
   
93.05   Entry on premises by Superintendent
   
93.06   Abatement of nuisances; procedure; cost
   
93.07   High value elms; spraying
   
93.08   Elm wood; permit required for transportation
   
93.09   Certain species prohibited
   
93.10   Transmission lines; interference prohibited
   
93.11   State regulations adopted; stockpiling certain wood restricted
Boulevard Trees
   
93.25   Definition
   
93.26   Responsibilities; Park and Recreation Board; Council; homeowners
   
93.27   Ordinary care
   
93.28   Permits; planting; tree work
   
93.29   Public Utilities Department; rights
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to regulate and protect trees and shrubs, see M.S. §
412.221(8)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 SUPERINTENDENT; AUTHORITY OVER PUBLIC AREAS.
   The City Superintendent shall have the exclusive jurisdiction and
supervision over all trees, other plants and grassy areas planted or growing in
public places.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 453, passed - -)
§ 93.02 CERTAIN TREES DECLARED NUISANCES.
   The following things are hereby declared to be public nuisances wherever
they may be found within the city:
   (A)   Any living or standing possible diseased tree infected with Dutch elm
disease, fungus ceratocystis ulmi or which harbors any of the tree parasites,
Scolytus multistriatus or hylurgopinus rufipes; and
   (B)   Any dead diseased tree or part thereof, including logs, branches,
stumps, firewood or other diseased material from which the bark has not been
removed and destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 22-2) (Ord. 453, passed - -)
§ 93.03 PERMITTING NUISANCE TO REMAIN.
   No person shall permit any public nuisances, as defined in §
93.02, to remain on any premises owned or controlled by the person within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 22-3) (Ord. 453, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 INSPECTION OF PREMISES BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   The City Superintendent shall inspect, or cause to be inspected, all
premises and places within the city at least twice a year to determine whether
any public nuisance, as defined in §
93.02, exists thereon. He or she shall also inspect any elm tree reported or
suspected to be infected with tree parasites.
(Prior Code, § 22-4) (Ord. 453, passed - -)
§ 93.05 ENTRY ON PREMISES BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   The City Superintendent shall have the authority to enter upon private
premises at all reasonable times for carrying out the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 22-5) (Ord. 453, passed - -)
§ 93.06 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES; PROCEDURE; COST.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the City Council or the City Superintendent finds with
reasonable certainty that a public nuisance, as defined in§
93.02, exists, he or she shall cause it to be sprayed, removed, burned or
otherwise abated in a manner as to destroy or prevent as fully as possible the
spread of Dutch elm disease or the insects known to carry this disease. A
notice shall be given the owner that the nuisance shall be abated within a
specified time, which shall be not less than ten days from the date of the
notice, unless the Superintendent shall find that immediate action is necessary
to prevent the spread of infection. If the owner fails to comply, the
Superintendent shall cause the abatement thereof.
      (2)   No damage shall be awarded the owner for destruction, pursuant to
this section, of any possible diseased tree, elm wood, elm material or any part
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 22-6)
   (B)   (1)   The entire cost of abating any public nuisance, as defined in §
93.02, or of spraying any possible diseased tree in accordance with division
(A) above may be charged to or assessed against the parcel or lot abutting on
the street, alley, boulevard or parkway upon or in which the tree is located or
the parcel or lot on which the tree stands. The cost of abating the nuisance
which is located in or upon any park or public grounds shall be borne by the
city.
      (2)   If the cost of remedying a condition is not paid within 30 days
after receipt of a statement from the City Administrator, the cost shall be
levied against the property as a special assessment and shall be collected in
the same manner as other taxes against the property.
(Prior Code, § 22-7)
(Ord. 453, passed - -)
§ 93.07 HIGH VALUE ELMS; SPRAYING.
   Whenever the City Superintendent shall determine that any possible diseased
tree or material is infected with Dutch elm disease, he or she may cause to be
sprayed all high value elms within a 500-foot radius thereof with an effective
tree parasite destroying concentrate. Before spraying of any possible diseased
tree on private property, the owner shall be notified.
(Prior Code, § 22-8) (Ord. 453, passed - -)
§ 93.08 ELM WOOD; PERMIT REQUIRED FOR TRANSPORTATION.
   No person shall transport within the city any bark bearing elm wood without
first securing the written permission of the City Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 22-9) (Ord. 453, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 CERTAIN SPECIES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be the duty of any person growing a tree on property abutting
public places to refrain from planting any of the following species: Chinese
Elm, Poplar, Box Elder or Cottonwood.
(Prior Code, § 22-10) (Ord. 453, passed - -)
§ 93.10 TRANSMISSION LINES; INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   All persons shall refrain from planting trees of any species that would
interfere with overhead, electric or transmission lines.
(Prior Code, § 22-11) (Ord. 453, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED; STOCKPILING CERTAIN WOOD RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Sections 1.0109 through 1.0111 of 3 State Code of Agency Rules,
Department of Agriculture, Shade Tree Program (1978 Edition), together with
amendments thereof to date, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this section as if set out in full, except as hereinafter provided. A copy of
the agency rules herewith incorporated is on file in the Administrator’s
office.
   (B)   The stockpiling of bark-bearing elm wood within the city limits shall
be permitted during the period from September 15 through April 1 of any given
year. Any wood not utilized by April 1 of any year must then be removed and
disposed of as provided by this section and the regulations incorporated
hereby.
   (C)   Where the provisions of this section conflict or are inconsistent with
any other ordinance of the city, the provisions of this section shall supersede
except in instances where one regulation is more restrictive than another, in
which case the more restrictive shall apply and control.
(Prior Code, § 22-11.1) (Ord. 516, passed - -; Ord. 762, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
93.99
BOULEVARD TREES
§ 93.25 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOULEVARD TREE. Any tree that falls within the city street right-of-way
(city street right-of-way is normally 33 feet from the centerline on most
residential streets).
(Prior Code, § 22-12) (Ord. 497, passed - -)
§ 93.26 RESPONSIBILITIES; PARK AND RECREATION BOARD; COUNCIL; HOMEOWNERS.
   (A)   Park and Recreation Board. The Park and Recreation Board of the city
shall have charge, custody and control of all trees growing in any boulevard
area, along any public street or avenue, and in any park or public area of the
city. The power to supervise, plant, care for, remove or have removed and
otherwise maintain the trees shall be given to the Park and Recreation Board.
(Prior Code, § 22-13)
   (B)   City Council. Until such time as the City Council allocates funds for
the trimming, planting and caring for boulevard trees (other than ordinary
care), the Park and Recreation Board will not be required to trim or prune the
trees, unless specifically ordered by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 22-14)
   (C)   Homeowners. The abutting property owners shall give ordinary care and
protection to the trees and grass in any boulevard area to ensure full growth
of the trees and grass. Boulevard areas shall, at all times, be graded, seeded
or sodded, and shall be used for no other purpose than the growing of grass and
trees, or for public walks, except under special permit.
(Prior Code, § 22-15) (Ord. 497, passed - -)
§ 93.27 ORDINARY CARE.
   ORDINARY CARE shall be defined as that care needed and required to ensure
the full growth of a tree, including spading and trimming of the grass around a
tree, and removal of such growth as small twigs and branches from the side of a
tree between ground level and the first major limb. Sidewalks must be kept open
from head obstructions.
(Prior Code, § 22-16) (Ord. 497, passed - -)
§ 93.28 PERMITS; PLANTING; TREE WORK.
   (A)   Before cutting, moving, trimming, pruning or performing any
maintenance (other than ordinary care) on a boulevard tree, a written permit
must be obtained from the Park and Recreation Board.
(Prior Code, § 22-17)
   (B)   Any new tree planted on a city street right-of-way that would
constitute a boulevard tree must first be approved by the Park and Recreation
Board. A written permit stating exact location and variety of tree must be
obtained before planting. The Park and Recreation Board will have at the office
of the Director of the Park and Recreation Board a recommended list of
boulevard trees. Boulevard trees must be planted at least 25 feet apart and
four to five feet from the curb or edge of the road.
(Prior Code, § 22-18)
(Ord. 497, passed - -)
§ 93.29 PUBLIC UTILITIES DEPARTMENT; RIGHTS.
   The Department of Public Utilities shall have the absolute right to trim,
remove or have removed any tree or shrubbery that interferes with overhead
lines, underground lines or poles. No trees, shrubs, fences, flowerbeds, etc.,
may be placed on any city utility easement without the written consent of the
City Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 22-19) (Ord. 497, passed - -)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, association, partnership, firm or corporation, by himself,
herself or itself, by his, her or its agent or employees, who knowingly
violates the provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be subject to the maximum misdemeanor penalties provided by the law.
(Prior Code, § 22-20)
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of §
93.11 shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be punishable as defined by law.
(Prior Code, § 22-11.1)
(Ord. 497, passed - -; Ord. 516, passed - -; Ord. 762, passed - -)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Sidewalks Generally
   
94.001   Snow and ice removal; responsibility
   
94.002   Bicycles, skateboards, roller blades, roller skates and the like on
Main Street
   
94.003   Removal by city
   
94.004   Construction
Maintenance and Repair of Sidewalks
   
94.020   Definitions
   
94.021   Existing sidewalks; maintenance; inventory
   
94.022   Unsafe sidewalks to be repaired
   
94.023   Specifications
   
94.024   Maintenance and repair; responsibility
   
94.025   Areas of city without existing sidewalks
   
94.026   Damage or destruction of sidewalks prohibited; liability
   
94.027   Review of areas for new sidewalks
Excavations
   
94.040   Permits required
   
94.041   Applications for permits
   
94.042   Surety bond required
   
94.043   Issuance and display of permit
   
94.044   Records of permits
   
94.045   Work requirements; liability of city
   
94.046   Barricades and lanterns required; placement
Snow Removal
   
94.060   Definition
   
94.061   Commencement of removal efforts
   
94.062   Parking during snow removal period prohibited
   
94.063   Parking prohibition exemptions
   
94.064   Towing of vehicles; violation and piling of snow
Uniform Naming and Numbering System
   
94.080   Sections established
   
94.081   New streets
   
94.082   Numbering system established; distribution of numbers generally
   
94.083   Assignment of numbers to properties; powers and duties of
Administrator; prerequisite to issuance of building permit
 
   
94.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to require snow removal from sidewalks, see M.S. § 412.221
(6)
   Authorizing city to regulate streets and sidewalks, see M.S. § 412.221(6)
   Hazardous excavations, see M.S. § 463.25
   Power of city to name and number streets, see M.S. § 412.221(18)
   Roads generally, see M.S. Ch. 160
SIDEWALKS GENERALLY
§ 94.001 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL; RESPONSIBILITY.
   All snow, ice, dirt and rubbish remaining on a public sidewalk more than 24
hours after its deposit thereon is a public nuisance. The owner and the
occupant of any property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use due diligence
to keep the walks safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow,
ice, dirt or rubbish to remain on the sidewalk longer than 24 hours after its
deposit thereon.
(Prior Code, § 20-1) (Ord. 647, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.002 BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER BLADES, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE ON
MAIN STREET.
   (A)   No person shall ride bicycles, skateboards, roller blades, unicycles,
"hot wheels", scooters and any other nonmotorized vehicles or recreational
devices on Main Street between Second Avenue East and Fifth Avenue West or on
the public sidewalk adjacent to that portion of Main Street mentioned above.
   (B)   Bicycles must be walked upon the sidewalks adjacent to Main Street
between Second Avenue East and Fifth Avenue West.
   (C)   Persons riding, operating or using bicycles, skateboards, roller
blades or roller skates upon city streets or sidewalks running perpendicular to
Main Street may cross Main Street at any intersection.
   (D)   The riding, operating or use of bicycles, skateboards, roller blades
and roller skates on all other city streets and sidewalks is permitted.
   (E)   Persons operating bicycles, skateboards, roller blades and roller
skates upon any city sidewalk where permitted or crossing a street on a cross-
walk shall yield right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give an audible
signal when necessary before overtaking and passing any pedestrian.
   (F)   The use of motor scooters, motorcycles or other motor vehicles upon
city sidewalks is prohibited.
   (G)   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the use
by a disabled person of a wheelchair or other wheeled device designed to assist
the disabled on the sidewalks, public parking lots or public streets of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 20-1.1) (Ord. 744, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.003 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   The city may remove from all public sidewalks all snow, ice, dirt and
rubbish beginning 24 hours after any matter has been deposited thereon or after
the snow has ceased to fall. The city shall keep a record showing the cost of
the removal adjacent to each separate lot and parcel and shall deliver the
information to the Administrator. The owner of property adjacent to which snow,
ice, dirt or rubbish has been removed by the city shall be personally liable
for the cost of service. As soon as the service has been completed and the cost
determined, the Administrator shall prepare a bill and mail it to the owner and
thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the
Administrator. On or before October 15 of each year, the Administrator shall
list the total unpaid charges for the removal of snow, ice, dirt or rubbish
from sidewalks for each separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable
under this article. The City Council may then spread the charges against
property benefitted as a special assessment under M.S. § 429.01, as may be
amended from time to time, and other pertinent statutes for certification to
the County Auditor and collection the following year along with current taxes.
(Prior Code, § 20-2) (Ord. 647, passed - -)
§ 94.004 CONSTRUCTION.
   All sidewalks hereafter built or replaced in the city shall be built of
cement.
(Prior Code, § 20-2.1) (Ord. 647, passed - -)
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS
§ 94.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. Pursuant to the authority conferred by M.S. § 462.357, Laws of
1965, as may be amended from time to time, the ordinance codified in this
section is enacted.
   EXISTING SIDEWALK. Sidewalks which are presently in place even though they
do not conform to the specifications hereinafter provided for.
   PERSON(S). Any natural person, firm, corporation, partnership, organization
or legal entity whatsoever, including the entities that are acting through
employees, servants, agents or others.
   SIDEWALK. An improved area made of concrete designed for pedestrian traffic
and located upon the public boulevards within the dedicated streets of the city
in accordance with §
94.023.
(Prior Code, § 20-21) (Ord. 723, passed - -; Ord. 763, passed - -; Ord. 828,
passed 6-11-2008)
§ 94.021 EXISTING SIDEWALKS; MAINTENANCE; INVENTORY.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council declares that the retention, repair and
replacement of existing sidewalks within the city is in the public interest and
that the existing sidewalk system should be maintained, repaired and replaced.
      (2)   The City Council declares that sidewalk shall be present in all
residential subdivisions approved after 2008, in new retail areas, and along
all newly constructed (not reconstructed) streets.
(Prior Code, § 20-22)
   (B)   The City Administrator shall maintain a permanent file as to the
location of past and existing sidewalks within the city and shall update this
map as required to depict changes in the location of sidewalks, including the
addition or the removal thereof. The map shall be color-coded to illustrate the
sidewalk(s).
(Prior Code, § 20-23)
(Ord. 723, passed - -; Ord. 763, passed - -; Ord. 828, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 94.022 UNSAFE SIDEWALKS TO BE REPAIRED.
   Any sidewalks within the city which are determined to be deteriorated or
otherwise in a condition unsafe or unfit for use shall be remedied by
replacement or repair according to the provisions of this subchapter, and
according to the specifications for the replacement or repair of sidewalk
provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 20-24) (Ord. 723, passed - -; Ord. 828, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 94.023 SPECIFICATIONS.
   Sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in strict conformance with
current acceptable engineering standards, a copy of which is on file in the
City Administrator’s office.
(Prior Code, § 20-25) (Ord. 723, passed - -; Ord. 763, passed - -; Ord. 828,
passed 6-11-2008)
§ 94.024 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR; RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The cost of maintenance and repair of sidewalks within the city shall
be the responsibility of the city.
   (B)   The City Council shall have the discretion to expend city funds for
the installation, maintenance and repair of sidewalks, under circumstances as
the City Council deems fair and just. The determination shall be at the sole
and exclusive discretion of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 20-26) (Ord. 723, passed - -; Ord. 763, passed - -; Ord. 810,
passed - -; Ord. 828, passed 6-11-2008)
§ 94.025 AREAS OF CITY WITHOUT EXISTING SIDEWALKS.
   Any resident of an area of the city, depicted on the sidewalk inventory map,
to be without past or existing sidewalk, may petition the city for sidewalk
installation. The requests will conform to the improvement petition process.
(Prior Code, § 20-27) (Ord. 723, passed - -; Ord. 763, passed - -; Ord. 828,
passed 6-11-2008)
§ 94.026 DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED; LIABILITY.
   No person shall remove, deface, damage, destroy or otherwise alter the
condition of any sidewalk within the city without the express written
authorization of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 20-28) (Ord. 828, passed 6-11-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.027 REVIEW OF AREAS FOR NEW SIDEWALKS.
   The City Council shall have, in its discretion, the right to determine
whether sidewalks would not be appropriate. The discretion shall not prevent
the Council from enforcing the other provisions of this subchapter requiring
the repair, replacement or maintenance of sidewalks in other areas of the city.
As new residential subdivisions and retail areas of the city are developed, the
developer as part of the platting process shall make provisions for
installation of sidewalks or future sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be made part of
all newly constructed (not reconstructed) streets, except in areas of
industrial or large commercial development. The cost of initial installation of
sidewalks in new subdivisions and retail areas and along new streets shall be
the sole responsibility of the abutting owner.
(Prior Code, § 20-29) (Ord. 723, passed - -; Ord. 763, passed - -; Ord. 810,
passed - -; Ord. 828, passed 6-11-2008)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 94.040 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Unless acting under a contract with the city, it shall be unlawful for any
person, other than a duly authorized city official or employee in the course of
his or her employment, to make, cause or permit to be made any excavation or
opening in or under the surface or pavement of any street, alley, sidewalk or
other public place within the limits of the city, without first having obtained
and having in force a permit to do so.
(Prior Code, § 20-3) (Ord. 419, passed - -; Ord. 431, passed - -; Ord. 459,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.041 APPLICATIONS FOR PERMIT.
   Any person desiring to procure a permit as herein provided shall file with
the City Administrator, at least 24 hours before the time proposed to begin the
work, a written application upon a blank form prepared and provided by the
city. The application shall state the name and business or residence address of
the applicant, the name of the street, alley, sidewalk or public place in or
under which it is desired to make the excavation or opening, the kind of
pavement or sidewalk thereon, the purpose, size and location of the proposed
excavation or opening, the name and business or residence address of the person
for whose benefit the work is to be done and the time during which it is
desired opening is to be permitted. When required by the City Administrator the
application shall be accompanied by a plat or pencil tracing or sketch showing
the location, character and dimensions of the proposed excavation or opening
for the installation of new work, or the location and character of the
alterations involving the location of pipes, conduits, wires or other
conductors.
(Prior Code, § 20-4) (Ord. 431, passed - -; Ord. 459, passed - -)
§ 94.042 SURETY BOND REQUIRED.
   The application shall be accompanied by a surety bond, cash or certified
check in the sum of $500 to safeguard the public, conditioned on the faithful
performance of the work in accordance with the rules, regulations and
ordinances of the city, within the time fixed by the city in the permit and for
the restoration of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in which
the excavation or opening shall be made by the person, to its original
condition and to the satisfaction of the city and for the maintenance of the
condition for the length of time as shall be required by the city and that the
persons will indemnify and save harmless the city against and from any and all
damages or claims for damages, losses, costs, charges or expenses that may be
brought against it by any person, for or on account of injury to persons or
property resulting from or occasioned by operating in or using any of the
streets under a franchise. Any person who, in the pursuit of his or her regular
calling, has request in any public places may file a bond in the sum of $2,000
conditioned as above to cover all excavations made by him or her for a period
of two years from the date of filing, but permits for all excavations must be
applied for and issued as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 20-5) (Ord. 431, passed - -; Ord. 459, passed - -)
§ 94.043 ISSUANCE AND DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   The City Administrator, upon the filing of the application and bond and the
payment of a fee at a rate set annually by resolution of the City Council and
the deposit herein required, shall issue a permit which shall state the name
and address of the applicant, the location, nature, purpose and extent of the
excavation or opening, the kind or kinds of pavement to be disturbed, the
amount of the deposit paid by the applicant and the dates of granting and
expiration of the permit. All permits shall be consecutively numbered and shall
be made in triplicate, one copy to be given to the applicant, one copy to be
delivered to the Street Commissioner and one copy to remain on file in the
office of the City Administrator. The permit shall, at all times, be in the
possession of a competent person actually on the work and shall be shown upon
demand to a police officer or properly authorized officer or employee of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 20-6) (Ord. 431, passed - -; Ord. 459, passed - -)
§ 94.044 RECORDS OF PERMITS.
   The City Administrator shall prepare and keep a record of permits issued,
numbered in the order in which they were issued; name and address of persons to
whom issued; location, nature, purpose and extent of excavation or opening;
time in which the street is to be restored; fee and amount of deposit paid; and
other and further items as will enable anyone to obtain a complete history of
each permit from its issuance to its termination. The copies of the permits
kept by the City Administrator, if properly bound, may be used as a basis for
the record.
(Prior Code, § 20-7) (Ord. 431, passed - -; Ord. 459, passed - -)
§ 94.045 WORK REQUIREMENTS; LIABILITY OF CITY.
   All work under a permit shall be under the supervision of the Street
Commissioner and in conformity with the following requirements.
   (A)   Execution. All work shall be started within 24 hours after the receipt
of the permit and shall be pursued diligently and continuously until completed.
When in consequence of the weather or any process of the law or any other
unexpected obstacle, the work shall be stopped for so long a time that public
travel shall be obstructed, the excavation or opening shall be refilled and re-
paved as if the work contemplated in a permit were actually completed.
   (B)   Amount of surface removed. In no case shall a person open or remove a
greater area of surface and at no other location than that specified in the
original or supplementary application; provided that, if at the time of
actually doing the work, it shall be necessary to open or remove a greater area
of surface than originally applied for, the applicant shall first notify and
procure the consent of the Street Commissioner to do so upon the express
condition that he or she will, before noon of the following business day, file
a supplementary application for the making of an additional excavation.
   (C)   Opening of streets at intersection; interference with fire hydrants
and the like; snow and the like removal. At the intersection of cross streets,
no more than one-half of the width of the street shall be opened at one time;
the other half shall remain untouched for the accommodation of traffic until
the first half is restored for safe use. All work shall be prosecuted so as not
to interfere with easy access to fire houses, fire hydrants and United States
mail boxes. The permittee must remove within 24 hours all snow and ice that may
fall or form upon the street within three feet upon either side of the opening
and keep the space free from snow and ice until the opening is properly
refilled.
   (D)   Inspection. The installation of all service lines shall be inspected
by a duly authorized city employee before any backfilling takes place.
   (E)   Backfilling. All excavations shall be backfilled and compacted to
original density or to 95% of standard proctor density. The broken edges of the
original surfacing shall be cut away with a saw. All backfilling and sawing
shall be inspected by a duly authorized city employee before any resurfacing is
done.
   (F)   Resurfacing. The backfilled and compacted excavation shall be
resurfaced using the same material as the original. This shall include all
subbase, base and surfacing courses encountered. The restoration and
resurfacing shall be completed within 45 days from issuance of the permit for
the street opening and shall be the responsibility of the signed applicant
whose cash deposit and/or surety bond filed in accordance with regulations set
forth in §
94.042.
   (G)   Restoration of curb and gutter. Any portion of the curb and gutter
that is damaged in the course of construction shall be restored to its original
condition or replaced. By granting a permit or conducting an inspection under
the provisions of this subchapter, the city and its duly authorized agents and
employees make no representations whatsoever as to the quality of the work and
service, or as to the safety measures required herein or taken by the person in
the course of the construction.
(Prior Code, § 20-8) (Ord. 431, passed - -; Ord. 459, passed - -; Ord. 677,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.046 BARRICADES AND LANTERNS REQUIRED; PLACEMENT.
   Any person making or causing to be made an excavation or opening in any
street, alley, sidewalk or other public place, or within 15 feet of the line of
any street, shall, between sunset and sunrise of every day that the excavation
or opening remains open or danger exists therefrom, keep the excavation or
opening fenced and barricaded with substantial barriers to secure public
safety. No unauthorized person shall remove or interfere in any way with any
lantern, danger signal or barrier.
(Prior Code, § 20-9) (Ord. 431, passed - -; Ord. 459, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
94.999
SNOW REMOVAL
§ 94.060 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or alley, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 20-10) (Ord. 462, passed - -)
§ 94.061 COMMENCEMENT OF REMOVAL EFFORTS.
   The city, within 12 hours following the termination of snow, freezing rain,
sleet, ice, snow drifts or other natural phenomena, which create or are likely
to create hazardous road conditions impeding or likely to impede the free
movement of fire, health, police, emergency or other vehicular traffic or the
safety and welfare of the community, shall commence the removal of the
conditions from the streets and highways within the city.
(Prior Code, § 20-11) (Ord. 462, passed - -)
§ 94.062 PARKING DURING SNOW REMOVAL PERIOD PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle or trailer shall be parked, abandoned or left unattended on any
city street or alley in the city during declared snow emergencies. A SNOW
EMERGENCY is defined as any time the quantity of snow warrants the deployment
of snow plows. During the snow emergencies, no parking shall be allowed on the
public roadways or alleys until the snow or ice plowing has been completed on
the street or alleys over the full width thereof. Snow plow drivers shall
notify the Police Department regarding when they are plowing city streets.
Citations shall be issued to vehicle owners parked in the path of the snow plow
on the first pass. The city may designate exceptions to the aforementioned as
required.
(Prior Code, § 20-12) (Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 94.063 PARKING PROHIBITION EXEMPTIONS.
   The foregoing provisions of §
94.062 shall not prohibit passenger vehicles from stopping for periods
sufficient to load or discharge passengers from the vehicles. Commercial
vehicles may stop for periods sufficient to load and unload cargo when special
permission is obtained from the City Engineer or the Police Department,
provided the commercial vehicle is not left unattended.
(Prior Code, § 20-13) (Ord. 639, passed - -)
§ 94.064 TOWING OF VEHICLES; VIOLATION AND PILING OF SNOW.
   (A)   Any vehicle parked in or upon any street or alley in violation of this
subchapter will be towed at the owner's expense.
(Prior Code, § 20-14)
   (B)   (1)   Towing of vehicles. Any vehicle, machinery, equipment or other
device or property of any nature which shall be left parked or standing in
violation of this subchapter may be summarily removed without notice to the
owner or operator by officers of the Police Department of the city or persons
employed or designated by it and stored in any appropriate place. All necessary
costs and expenses of towing, removing and storage of the vehicles, machinery,
equipment or other device or property of any nature, shall be paid to the
person doing the towing, by the person claiming the vehicles before release of
the vehicles. The city shall not be responsible for any damage to the vehicles
removed in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Piling of snow. No owner or occupant of property abutting upon a
public street or alley nor any person, on behalf of any owner or occupant,
shall:
         (a)   Push into or deposit upon the paved or improved roadway of any
public street or alley, any snow or ice from the private property or from
public boulevards adjoining the property; and
         (b)   Pile snow at the heights and at the locations as to interfere
with the view of the traveling public at public street and alley intersections
and at private drives onto public streets and alleys.
(Prior Code, § 20-15)
(Ord. 462, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.999
UNIFORM NAMING AND NUMBERING SYSTEM
§ 94.080 SECTIONS ESTABLISHED.
   The city shall be and is hereby divided into four general sections, for the
purpose of establishing a uniform system of street numbering, as follows.
   (A)   Northwest. All that part of the city lying north of the center line of
Main Street and west of the center line of Mantorville Street is hereby
designated as the northwest section of the city.
   (B)   Southwest. All that part of the city lying south of the center line of
Main Street and west of the center line of Mantorville Street is hereby
designated as the southwest section of the city.
   (C)   Northeast. All that part of the city lying north of the center line of
Main Street and east of the center line of Mantorville Street is hereby
designated as the northeast section of the city.
   (D)   Southeast. All that part of the city lying south of the center line of
Main Street and east of the center line of Mantorville Street is hereby
designated as the southeast section of the city.
(Prior Code, § 20-16) (Ord. 412, passed - -)
§ 94.081 NEW STREETS.
   Before the approval of any new street by the City Council, the street shall
be coordinated with the system of street numbering as established by this
subchapter. In any new plat, the avenues running north and south shall be given
an avenue number and section designation to correspond with the avenue numbers
as provided in this subchapter and all streets running east and west shall be
given a street number and section designation to correspond with the street
numbers and section designations as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 20-17) (Ord. 412, passed - -)
§ 94.082 NUMBERING SYSTEM ESTABLISHED; DISTRIBUTION OF NUMBERS GENERALLY.
   For the purpose of easier location and designation of properties, either
residential or commercial, within the city, a system of house numbers for the
city is hereby established.
   (A)   On all avenues within the city running north from Main Street, the
properties shall be allotted numbers beginning with the lowest number nearest
Main Street, and in units of 100 numbers to the block, in a regular ascending
order, as the avenue progresses northerly. The properties fronting upon the
westerly side of any avenue or street shall be given an odd number and the
properties fronting upon the easterly side of any avenue, an even number, with
due regard being taken for any vacant lots fronting on any avenue. The 100
digit and, in the event it becomes necessary, the 1,000 digit in any number
assigned shall correspond with the number of the avenue intersecting the street
on which the property is located, immediately south of the property.
   (B)   On all streets within the city running west from Mantorville Street,
the property shall be assigned numbers beginning with the lowest number nearest
Mantorville Street, and in units of 100 numbers to the block in a regular
ascending order, as the street progresses westerly. The properties fronting
upon the southerly side of the street shall be given an even number and the
properties fronting upon the north side of any street, an odd number, with due
regard being taken for any vacant lots fronting any street. The 100 digit and,
in the event it becomes necessary, the 1,000 digit in any number assigned shall
correspond with the number of the avenue intersecting the street on which the
property is located immediately east of the property.
   (C)   On all avenues within the city running southerly from Main Street, the
properties shall be assigned numbers beginning with the lowest number nearest
Main Street, and in units of 100 numbers to the block in a regular ascending
order as the avenue progresses southerly. The properties fronting upon the
westerly side of the avenue shall be given an odd number and the properties
fronting upon the easterly side of any avenue, an even number, with due regard
being given for any vacant lots fronting on any such avenue. The 100 digit and,
in the event it becomes necessary, the 1,000 digit in any number assigned shall
correspond with the number of the street intersecting the avenue on which the
property is located immediately north of the property.
   (D)   On all streets within the city running east from Mantorville Street,
the properties shall be assigned numbers beginning with the lowest number
nearest Mantorville Street, and in units of 100 numbers per block in a regular
ascending order as the street progresses easterly, the properties fronting upon
the south side of the street shall be given an even number and the properties
fronting upon the north side of the street, an odd number, with due regard
being taken for any vacant lots fronting on any street. The 100 digit and, in
the event it becomes necessary, the 1,000 digit in any number so assigned shall
correspond with the number of the avenue intersecting the street on which the
property is located, immediately west of the property.
(Prior Code, § 20-18) (Ord. 412, passed - -)
§ 94.083 ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS TO PROPERTIES; POWERS AND DUTIES OF
ADMINISTRATOR; PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Administrator is hereby authorized and empowered to assign
numbers to the several properties within the city in accordance with the plan
set out in this subchapter, and he or she shall prepare and keep as a part of
the permanent records of the city, a record of numbers so assigned. The record
shall be open for inspection of the public at all reasonable hours.
(Prior Code, § 20-19)
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued within the city until a number
shall have been assigned by the City Administrator to the building to be
erected under the permit.
(Prior Code, § 20-20)
(Ord. 412, passed - -)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of the provisions of §
94.064 shall not only subject the violator to misdemeanor penalties, but shall
also obligate the abutting owner or occupant and any agent of the owner or
occupant, to reimburse the city for any expense incurred by it in removing snow
unlawfully deposited or piled.
(Prior Code, § 20-15) (Ord. 462, passed - -)
CHAPTER 95: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Smoking
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Prohibition
Noise
   
95.20   Unnecessary noises generally
   
95.21   Construction or repair of buildings or construction work
   
95.22   Parties and gatherings
   
95.23   Permitted sounds
   
95.24   Radios, tapes and disc players
Air Pollution
   
95.40   Adoption of state regulations
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to adopt regulations reference, see M.S. Ch. 471
   Authority of city to promote the public health and general welfare, see M.S.
§ 412.221(22), (32)
   Authorizing city to regulate noise and nuisances, see M.S. § 412.221(23),
(24)
   State Pollution Control Agency, see M.S. §§ 116.01 et seq.
SMOKING
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public health, comfort and
environment and to promote a safe and healthy environment for municipal
employees and citizens who use municipally-owned buildings and vehicles and to
provide an environment that is free from the effects of tobacco use and its
associated health risks.
(Prior Code, § 18.2-1) (Ord. 742, passed - -)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   KASSON MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL. The entire area within the fences
surrounding the swimming pool, including the bath house.
   SMOKING. The lighting, holding or carrying of or emitting or exhaling the
smoke of a pipe, cigar, cigarette or any other lighted smoking equipment of any
kind. SMOKING, for the purpose of this subchapter, is also the use of any
smokeless tobacco product including, but not limited to, chewing tobacco and
snuff.
(Prior Code, § 18.2-2) (Ord. 742, passed - -)
§ 95.03 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Smoking is unlawful in the following public places:
      (1)   Kasson City Hall;
      (2)   Kasson Public Library;
      (3)   Kasson municipal swimming pool;
      (4)   Kasson municipal liquor store;
      (5)   Kasson public works building;
      (6)   Kasson waste water treatment plant;
      (7)   Kasson Police Department; and
      (8)   Kasson well houses and water towers.
   (B)   Smoking is unlawful in any motor vehicle owned by the city.
(Prior Code, § 18.2-3) (Ord. 742, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.99
NOISE
§ 95.20 UNNECESSARY NOISES GENERALLY.
   No person shall make, continue or cause to be made or continued any loud,
unnecessary or unusual noise which unreasonably annoys, disturbs, injures or
endangers the comfort, convenience, safety, health, welfare or repose of
persons in the vicinity thereof, unless the making, continuing, or causing to
be made or continued of the noise cannot be prevented and is necessary for the
protection or preservation of property or of the health, safety, life or limb
of some person. Law enforcement may issue citations for noise that exceeds or
is otherwise in violation of this section and may order the person violating
this section to stop making the noise.
(Prior Code, § 14-1) (Ord. 775, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR OF BUILDINGS OR CONSTRUCTION WORK.
   (A)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or repair
of any building requiring a building permit or the performance of any
construction work occurring between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on
Monday through Saturday, from 10:00 p.m. Saturday through 10:00 a.m. Sunday,
and from 10:00 p.m. Sunday through 7:00 a.m. Monday is a violation of this
section. For purposes of this section, CONSTRUCTION WORK shall mean any and all
activity incidental to the erection of buildings, structures, roads, flood
control facilities or appurtenances thereof, including land clearing, grading,
excavating and filling.
   (B)   Notwithstanding this section, a permit may be obtained to allow
construction work to occur during the prohibited hours described in division
(A) above in cases of urgent necessity in the interest of public health and
safety. The permit shall be granted for a period not to exceed three days,
shall continue only so long as the necessity continues and may be extended for
additional periods of three days or less so long as the necessity continues.
   (C)   Notwithstanding this section, a permit may be obtained to allow
construction work to occur during the prohibited hours described in division
(A) above if it is determined that the public health and safety is not impaired
by the erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building, or the
performance of construction work occurring during the hours, and further that
no loss or inconvenience would result to any party in interest. Application for
a permit may be made at the time the building permit for the work is awarded or
during the progress of the work.
   (D)   The permits described in divisions (B) and (C) above shall be issued
by the Building Inspector in cases involving a building for which a building
permit is required.
(Prior Code, § 14-1) (Ord. 775, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.22 PARTIES AND GATHERINGS.
   No person shall, between the hours of 11:30 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., attend or
participate in any party or gathering of four or more persons from which noise
emanates in sufficient volume to disturb the peace, quiet, comfort or repose of
persons in any hospital or office, or in any dwelling, hotel, motel or other
type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity; nor shall any person
visit or remain in any dwelling, structure or place where the party or
gathering is taking place, except persons who have gone there for the purpose
of abating the noise or disturbance.
(Prior Code, § 14-1) (Ord. 775, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.23 PERMITTED SOUNDS.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed to classify as loud, unusual or
unnecessary sounds from any of the following activities:
   (A)   Marching and/or playing music by bands, orchestras or other musical
aggregations in conjunction with a city celebration, festival or other
neighborhood or community event, an event presented or sponsored by the city's
Music Department, or the practice for or presentation of an event sponsored by
a local public or private school;
   (B)   Church bells, chimes and carillons;
   (C)   Duly authorized parades;
   (D)   Construction work conducted pursuant to the conditions identified in §
95.21(B) or pursuant to the conditions in any permit authorizing the activity;
   (E)   The operation of snow removal vehicles and equipment;
   (F)   The operation, loading and unloading of commercial trucks; and
   (G)   The operation of other commercial vehicles normally incident to
commerce.
(Prior Code, § 14-1) (Ord. 775, passed - -)
§ 95.24 RADIOS, TAPES AND DISC PLAYERS.
   (A)   No person shall use, operate or permit to be played any radio
receiving set, tape or disc player, musical instrument, phonograph or other
machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in the manner,
considering the time and place and the purpose for which the sound is produced,
so as to disturb the peace, quiet or repose of a person or persons of ordinary
sensibilities.
   (B)   The play, use or operation of any radio, tape or disc player, musical
instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the production or
reproduction of sound in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance
of 50 feet from such machine or device shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation of this section.
   (C)   When sound violating this section is produced or reproduced by a
machine or device that is located in or on a vehicle, the vehicle's owner is
guilty of the violation; provided, however, that, if the vehicle's owner is not
present at the time of the violation, the person in charge or control of the
vehicle at the time of the violation is guilty of the violation.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to sound procured by the following:
      (1)   Amplifying equipment used in connection with activities which are
authorized, sponsored or permitted by the city;
      (2)   Church bells, chimes or carillons;
      (3)   School bells;
      (4)   Anti-theft devices; or
      (5)   Machines or devices for the production of sound on or in authorized
emergency vehicles.
   (E)   With the exception of the machines or devices listed in division (D)
above, this section shall apply to all radios, tape and disc players, musical
instruments, phonographs and machines and devices for the production or
reproduction of sound, whether on public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 14-1) (Ord. 775, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.99
AIR POLLUTION
§ 95.40 ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   Air Pollution Control Regulation No. 8, adopted by the State Pollution
Control Agency, as amended, is hereby adopted by reference. One copy of the
regulation shall be marked “official copy” and kept on file in the office of
the City Administrator for use and examination by the public.
(Prior Code, § 11-1) (Ord. 469, passed - -)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
95.01 through
95.03 is guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by
law.
(Prior Code, § 18.2-4) (Ord. 742, passed - -; Ord. 762, passed - -)
CHAPTER 96: FAIR HOUSING; RENTAL HOUSING
Section
Fair Housing
   
96.01   Declaration of policy
   
96.02   Prohibited acts; exceptions
   
96.03   Enforcement
   
96.04   Statute of limitations
Rental Housing
   
96.20   Registration certificate required
   
96.21   Application; forms
   
96.22   Compliance with zoning regulations
   
96.23   Issuance of registration certificate
   
96.24   Notice of violation
   
96.25   Rejection of application
   
96.26   Failure to register
   
96.27   Certificate of renewal and nontransferability
   
96.28   Suspension and revocation of registration certificate
   
96.29   Fees
   
96.30   Definitions
   
96.31   Conduct on licensed premises
   
96.32   License suspension and revocation
   
96.33   Prospective tenant background investigations
 
   
96.99   Penalty
FAIR HOUSING
§ 96.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   Discrimination with regard to housing on the basis of race, sex, creed,
religion, marital status, HIV positive status, and disability adversely affects
the health, welfare, peace and safety of the community. Persons subject to the
discrimination suffer depressed living conditions and create conditions which
endanger the public peace and order. The public policy of the city is declared
to be to foster equal opportunity for all to obtain decent, safe and sanitary
housing without regard to their race, creed, color, national origin, marital
status, disability status or sex and strictly in accord with their individual
merits as human beings. It is also the policy of the city to protect all
persons from all unfounded charges of discrimination.
(Prior Code, § 7.1-1) (Ord. 577, passed - -)
§ 96.02 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It is an unlawful discriminatory practice and unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to discriminate on grounds of race, creed, religion,
color, sex, marital status, status with regard to public assistance, national
origin, age, HIV positive status, or disability in the sale, lease or rental of
any housing unit;
      (2)   For any broker, salesperson or other person acting in behalf of
another to so discriminate in the sale, lease or rental of any housing unit
belonging to such other person;
      (3)   For any person engaged in the business of financing the purchase,
rehabilitation, remodeling or repair of housing units or in the business of
selling insurance with respect to housing units to refuse to provide financing
or insurance, or to discriminate with regard to the terms or conditions
thereof, by reason of the race, color, sex, religion, creed, national origin,
marital status, status with regard to public assistance, age, HIV positive
status, or disability of the applicant or because of the location of the units
in areas of the city occupied by persons of a particular race, color, sex,
religion, creed, national origin, marital status, status with regard to public
assistance, age, HIV positive status, or disability; or to discriminate by
treating differently any person who desires to purchase, lease, acquire,
construct, rehabilitate, repair or maintain real property in a specific urban
area because of social, economic or environmental conditions of the area in
granting, withholding, extending, modifying or renewing, or in the rates,
terms, conditions or privileges, of any financial assistance or in the
extension of services in connection therewith. The bona fide programs of
federal, state or local governmental units or agencies, however structured or
authorized to upgrade or improve in any manner a specific urban area, shall not
be deemed to be a violation of this section;
      (4)   For any person, having sold, leased or rented a housing unit to any
person, to discriminate with respect to facilities, services or privileges of
occupancy by reason of race, color, sex, creed, religion, national origin, age
or disability, marital status, HIV positive status, or status with regard to
public assistance;
      (5)   For any person to make or publish any statement evidencing an
intent to discriminate, on grounds of race, creed, religion, color, sex,
national origin or ancestry, marital status, status with regard to public
assistance, age, HIV positive status, or disability, in the sale, lease or
rental of a housing unit;
      (6)   For any person to make any inquiry regarding race, color, sex,
creed, religion, national origin, marital status, status with regard to public
assistance, age, HIV positive status, or disability, or to keep any record or
use any form of application designed to elicit the information, in connection
with the sale, lease, rental or financing of a housing unit; and
      (7)   For any person, for the purpose of inducing a real estate
transaction from which he or she may benefit financially:
         (a)   To represent that a change has occurred or will or may occur in
the composition of the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is
located, in respect of the race, color, sex, creed, religion, national origin,
marital status, status with regard to public assistance, age, HIV positive
status, or disability of those living there; or
         (b)   To represent that this change will or may result in the lowering
of property values, an increase in crime or antisocial behavior, or a decline
in the quality of schools in the block, neighborhood or area concerned.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person
selling, renting or leasing property to modify the property in any way or
exercise a higher degree of care for a person having a disability than for a
person who does not have a disability; nor shall this section be construed to
relieve any person, regardless of any disability, in a written lease, rental
agreement or contract or purchase or sale, or to forbid distinctions based on
the inability to fulfill the terms and conditions, including financial
obligations, of the lease, agreement or contract.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   The rental of a portion of a dwelling containing accommodations for
two families, one of which is occupied by the owner; or
      (2)   The rental, by an owner or occupier of a one-family accommodation
in which he or she resides, of a room in the accommodation to another person,
if the discrimination is by sex, marital status, HIV positive status, status
with regard to public assistance or disability.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person
selling, renting or leasing property to modify the property in any way or
exercise a higher degree of care for a person having a disability than for a
person who does not have a disability; nor shall this section be construed to
relieve any person of any obligations generally imposed on all persons,
regardless of any disability, in a written lease, rental agreement or contract
of purchase or sale, or to forbid distinctions based on the inability to
fulfill the terms and conditions, including financial obligations, of the
lease, agreement or contract.
(Prior Code, § 7.1-2) (Ord. 577, passed - -)
§ 96.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city is designated as the enforcement agency for this chapter and
shall have the power to receive, hear and determine complaints as provided
herein.
   (B)   The city shall promptly investigate, upon complaint or upon its own
motion, any violations of this chapter.
   (C)   If, after investigation, it shall have reason to believe a violation
has occurred, it may refer the matter to the City Attorney for criminal
prosecution or enter into a settlement agreement which, when approved by the
city, shall have the same force as a city order.
(Prior Code, § 7.1-3) (Ord. 577, passed - -)
§ 96.04 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   No action may be brought for civil enforcement or criminal prosecution,
unless the charge of alleged discriminatory practice was filed with the city
within 180 days from the occurrence of the practice.
(Prior Code, § 7.1-4) (Ord. 577, passed - -)
RENTAL HOUSING
§ 96.20 REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No owner shall allow another person to occupy, nor shall any person
let to another for occupancy, any dwelling, or any apartment or rooming unit in
any dwelling, without first obtaining a registration certificate as provided in
this chapter, or at such time that the registration certificate, or the right
to receive a registration certificate, is suspended or revoked. Any
registration certificate obtained pursuant to this section shall be issued in
the name of the owner. In the case of a multiple-unit dwelling, a registration
certificate issued pursuant to this section includes and applies to both the
entire dwelling as well as each individual rental unit within the dwelling. Any
suspension or revocation of the registration certificate or the right to
receive a registration certificate may involve the entire dwelling or any
individual unit or units within the dwelling.
   (B)   The occupancy or rental of any dwelling, or any apartment, or rooming
unit in any dwelling for which a registration certificate is required, need not
be interrupted or suspended for lack of a registration certificate if the same
is due to the inability of the City Administrator to process the application in
a timely manner.
(Prior Code, § 28-1) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 96.21 APPLICATION; FORMS.
   (A)   An application for a registration certification shall be filed by the
owner with the City Administrator. An application for any dwelling to be
converted to a use which would require a registration certificate shall be made
and filed with the Director of Planning and Zoning at least 30 days prior to
the conversion.
(Prior Code, § 28-2)
   (B)   (1)   Forms of applications for registration certificates shall be
supplied by the City Administrator and will be available at City Hall.
      (2)   Each application for registration certificate shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   Name, residence, address, telephone number and date of birth of
the owner of the dwelling. If the owner is a partnership, the name of the
partnership, and the name, residence address, telephone number and date of
birth of the managing partner. If the owner is a corporation, the name and
address of the corporation, and the name, address, telephone number and date of
birth of the chief operating officer. If the dwelling is being sold on a
contract for deed, the name and address of the contract vendee. Where the word
OWNER is used in any part of the city housing code, it shall include all
persons as outlined in this section;
         (b)   Name, residence address, telephone number and date of birth of
any agent appointed by the owner to accept service of process and to receive or
give receipt for notices;
         (c)   Name, residence address, telephone number and date of birth of
any operator or agent actively involved in maintenance or management of the
dwelling;
         (d)   Legal street address of dwelling;
         (e)   Complete details of the number and kind of units offered for
rent, classified as to the type of unit on the application and the facilities
incorporated in the rental units; and
         (f)   Any person making application for a rental registration
certificate must provide proof of identification by the user of a driver's
license, state issued identification card, military identification card or
other identification as is acceptable to the City Administrator. The
identification provided must set forth the full name and date of birth of the
person making the application.
(Prior Code, § 28-3)
(Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 96.22 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING REGULATIONS.
   Every application for registration certificate shall be accompanied by a
certificate issued by the City Zoning Administrator indicating that the
proposed use of the dwelling is in compliance with zoning requirements.
(Prior Code, § 28-4) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 96.23 ISSUANCE OF REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE.
   Whenever the investigation of an application indicated that the dwellings,
apartments or rooming units offered for rent comply with all provisions of this
code, including any provisions of the zoning ordinances, the City Administrator
shall issue a registration certificate.
(Prior Code, § 28-5) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 96.24 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the investigation of an application for registration certificate
indicated that the dwelling, apartment or rooming unit offered for rent does
not comply with the provisions of this code, the City Administrator shall serve
a notice to the applicant at his or her address indicated on the application
for registration certificate.
(Prior Code, § 28-6) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 96.25 REJECTION OF APPLICATION.
   Whenever the investigation of an application for registration certificate
indicated that the dwelling, apartment or rooming unit does not comply with the
provisions of this code including any provisions of the zoning ordinances, the
City Administrator shall return the application to the applicant stating the
reasons for the rejection of the application.
(Prior Code, § 28-7) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 96.26 FAILURE TO REGISTER.
   Every person required to register a dwelling, apartment or rooming unit
offered for rent under the provisions of this subchapter and who fails to do
so, or who allows the property to be occupied when the registration certificate
or right to receive the registration certificate is revoked or suspended, shall
be guilty of a violation of this code. Each day that a property is rented out
without a valid rental registration certificate on file for that property is a
separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 28-9) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 96.27 CERTIFICATE OF RENEWAL AND NONTRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   Registration certificates will initially be required on or before 7-1-
2004. All registration certificates shall expire on June 30 of the year
following its issuance and must be renewed annually. All information required
by §
96.21(B) of this chapter must be submitted at the time of renewal.
   (B)   Every person who transfers title to property registered under this
chapter shall provide the City Administrator with the name, residence address,
telephone number and date of the transfer of title to the new owner within ten
days of the date of the transfer. Within 30 days of the date of the transfer,
the new owner shall apply for a new registration certificate. In the case of an
option contract where the holder of the option is collecting rents and/or is
paying on the mortgage to the property while the option remains unexercised,
the holder of the option shall be deemed to be the owner of the property for
purposes of this section and shall be required to apply for a rental
registration certificate in his or her name. The date the option contract is
created shall be deemed to be the date the holder of the option becomes the
"owner" for purposes of this section.
   (C)   Registration certificates may not be transferred or assigned.
(Prior Code, § 28-10) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 96.28 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Any registration certificate issued by the city pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter may be suspended or revoked upon a finding that
the certificate holder, during the term of the certificate, failed to comply
with any provision of this subchapter.
   (B)   A person's right to apply and receive a registration certificate may
be suspended or revoked upon a finding that the applicant has let to another
for occupancy any dwelling, or any apartment or rooming unit in any dwelling,
without first obtaining a registration certificate as required by this
subchapter and, during such time, the premises were involved in a disorderly
use, as defined below.
   (C)   Whenever it appears to the Council that adequate grounds may exist for
the suspension or revocation of a registration certificate, or the right to
receive a registration certificate, the Council shall by resolution specify the
nature of the alleged grounds and order that a hearing on the matter be held as
provided below.
   (D)   No suspension or revocation shall be effective until the license or
permit holder has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing under §§ 14.57 to
14.70 of the State Administrative Procedure Act.
   (E)   Upon a finding that the registration certificate holder or applicant
has violated this subchapter, the Council may invoke any of the sanctions
provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 28-11) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 96.29 FEES.
   (A)   In addition to other fees as may be imposed by this code, a
nonrefundable fee in an amount to be determined by City Council for each
dwelling building containing less than four units, a fee in an amount to be
determined by City Council for each dwelling building containing four to eight
units, a fee in an amount to be determined by City Council for each dwelling
building containing nine or more units, plus a fee in an amount to be
determined by City Council for each apartment unit and each of the first four
rooming units not occupied by the owner shall be paid when an application for a
registration certificate or renewal is filed with the City Administrator as
required by this subchapter. If an application for renewal is not made prior to
the expiration of the certificate, an additional fee in an amount to be
determined by City Council per day shall be charged for each day thereafter up
to 20 days or until the application is filed, whichever occurs first. The fees
set forth above may be adjusted from time to time by resolution of the City
Council.
   (B)   The per-unit fee shall be waived for any premises actively enrolled/
currently certified in the crime free multi-housing program conducted by the
Police Department. At the time of registration, proof of enrollment is required
in the form of a current crime free multi-housing gold certificate issued by
the Police Department or a letter issued and signed by the officer assigned to
the Police Department Crime Prevention Unit, indicating the premises' status in
the program.
(Prior Code, § 28-12) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 96.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROPRIATE ACTION. The action which a reasonable rental property owner
would take based upon the facts and circumstances of each case so as to prevent
a reoccurrence of the disorderly use.
   CRIME FREE MULTI-HOUSING or CRIME FREE MULTI-HOUSING PROGRAM. The program
offered by the Police Department and conducted according to nationally
recognized standards.
   DISORDERLY or DISORDERLY USE. Conduct occurring on the "licensed premises"
or "premises" which violates a provision of §
96.31(B).
   LICENSE. A registration certificate or the right to receive a registration
certificate as required by this subchapter.
   LICENSED PREMISES or PREMISES. The property owned, operated or managed by a
rental property owner and shall refer to an individual unit within a multi-unit
complex when applicable.
   RENTAL PROPERTY OWNER. One who holds the license or who is otherwise
obligated to obtain and maintain the license as required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 28-13) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 96.31 CONDUCT ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   Any rental property owner shall be responsible to take appropriate
action against persons occupying specific units in the licensed premises or
premises who conduct themselves in a manner as to cause the premises to be
disorderly in violation of the statutes or ordinances listed in division (B)
below. For purposes of this subchapter, the term PERSONS OCCUPYING THE PREMISES
shall include residential tenants as defined by M.S. § 504B.001, as may be
amended from time to time, and those persons on the licensed premises whose
presence the tenant has invited or to which the tenant has acquiesced.
Violations of this section apply to individual units within buildings or
complexes containing multiple units when the conduct occurs within a unit.
Violations of this section by persons occupying specific units that occur
within a common area of the licensed premises shall apply both to the
individual and the common area of the licensed premises.
   (B)   The following ordinances and statutes are applicable to this section:
      (1)   M.S. §§ 609.321 through 609.3241, as may be amended from time to
time, prohibiting prostitution;
      (2)   M.S. § 609.33, as may be amended from time to time, which prohibits
participation in a disorderly house;
      (3)   M.S. §§ 617.23 through 627.299, as may be amended from time to
time, prohibiting obscenity;
      (4)   Sections
95.20 through
95.24 of this code of ordinances prohibiting loud parties or gatherings or
other unnecessary loud noises;
      (5)   M.S. §§ 609.75 through 609.76, as may be amended from time to time,
which prohibit gambling;
      (6)   M.S. §§ 152.01 through 152.025 and § 152.027, Subds. 1 and 2, as
may be amended from time to time, which prohibit the unlawful sale or
possession of controlled substances;
      (7)   M.S. Ch. 340A, as may be amended from time to time, which prohibits
the unlawful sale, use or possession of alcohol beverages;
      (8)   M.S. §§ 97B.021, 97B.045, 609.66 through 609.67 and 624.712 through
624.716, as may be amended from time to time, which prohibit the unlawful
possession, transportation, sale, or use of weapon;
      (9)   M.S. § 609.72, as may be amended from time to time, which prohibits
disorderly conduct; or
      (10)   M.S. §§ 609.221, 609.222, 609.223, 609.2231 and 609.224, as may be
amended from time to time, which prohibit assaults, except that domestic
assaults, as the same are defined by state law, are not included herein.
   (C)   The police or the City Administrator shall be charged with the
responsibility of enforcing division (B) above.
   (D)   Upon determination by the police or City Administrator that the
licensed premises were involved in a disorderly use, the police shall notify
the license holder by certified mail of the violation and direct the license
holder to take appropriate action to prevent further violations. Notice shall
be effective if mailed to the license holder at that person's last known
address. This and subsequent notices are collectively referred to as disorderly
use notices.
   (E)   If another instance of disorderly use on the premises occurs within 12
months of an incident for which a prior disorderly use notice was given, the
license holder shall be notified of the instance of disorderly use and shall
also be required to submit a written report of appropriate actions taken by the
rental property owner to prevent further disorderly use of the premises. This
written report shall be submitted to the police in writing within five days of
the notice of disorderly use of the premises within the preceding 12 months.
Failure to submit the written report as required herein shall be a basis for
the imposition of a fine and the revocation or suspension of the license or
right to receive the license for the specific unit or units located on the
licensed premises as otherwise provided for in this subchapter.
   (F)   If another instance of disorderly use of the premises occurs within 12
months of two or more prior disorderly use notices, the license or right to
obtain a license may be revoked or suspended for a specific unit or units
located on the licensed premises. If the notice of violation has been issued
with respect to a common area of a building or complex of buildings, then the
license or right to obtain such license as to all units in the building or
complex may be suspended or revoked.
   (G)   If another instance of disorderly use of the premises occurs within 12
months of the expiration of a prior suspension issued pursuant to the provision
of this subchapter, the license or right to obtain a license may be revoked or
suspended for the specific unit or units located on the licensed premises. If
the notice of violation has been issued with respect to a common area of a
building or complex of buildings then the license or right to obtain a license
as to all units in the building or complex may be suspended or revoked.
   (H)   No suspension or revocation or other sanctions shall be imposed where
one or more of the three required disorderly use notices were mailed or
delivered to the landlord after the rental property owner has filed an unlawful
detainer action with the district court for the particular unit or units
identified in the disorderly use notice. Calls to police made by rental
property owners shall not be considered incidents of disorderly use in the
implementation of divisions (D) through (G) above. The initiation of an
unlawful detainer action shall not be a bar to sanctions, however, unless the
action is diligently pursued by the rental property owner. Notice of and a copy
of the unlawful detainer action shall be delivered to the Police Department. A
determination that the licensed premises have been involved in a disorderly use
as described in division (B) above shall be made upon a preponderance of the
evidence. It shall not be necessary that criminal charges be brought to support
a determination of disorderly use, nor shall the fact of dismissal or acquittal
of a criminal charge operate as a bar to adverse license action under this
section.
   (I)   No suspension or revocation or other sanctions shall be imposed where
one or more of the three required disorderly use notices were mailed or
delivered to the landlord after the rental property owner has enrolled the
premises in the crime free multi-housing program and is actively working with
the Police Department to resolve the issues indicated in the disorderly use
notices. This division (I) will not apply to any premises that was enrolled in
the program, but failed to complete and maintain certification in all three
phases within the time frame agreed upon by the property owner and the Police
Department Crime Prevention Unit.
   (J)   This section applies to all leases, whether written or oral, and a
landlord may consider any tenant's conduct listed in division (B) above to be
both a material breach of the lease and grounds for termination in any unlawful
detainer action. Additionally, all written leases executed after 10-1-2003,
shall contain a clause providing that conduct that violates division (B) above
constitutes both a material breach of the lease and grounds for termination of
the lease.
   (K)   This subchapter is not intended to supersede criminal sanctions that
may be applied to the individual who violates the statutes and ordinances
listed in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 28-14) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 96.32 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Upon a determination that a license or right to obtain the license may
be suspended or revoked, or that a fine or other sanctions may be imposed, a
public hearing shall be held before a body to be known as the Rental Housing
Complaint Board. The Rental Housing Complaint Board shall consist of one City
Council member, one member of the Police Department and one member who shall be
a rental property owner. The members of the Rental Housing Complaint Board
shall be appointed annually by the City Council. All parties shall be afforded
an opportunity to appear at the hearing after receiving reasonable notice. The
notice shall state the time, place and issues involved. At this hearing, rental
property owners may present evidence of mitigating circumstances showing the
absence of any need for a public hearing before the Council to consider the
revocation or suspension of the license or right to receive a license, or the
imposition of fines or other sanctions. The Board shall, in good faith, hear
and consider this evidence in making a determination regarding whether or not
to hold a public hearing. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Board shall
make a recommendation to the Council regarding whether a need exists for a
public hearing. The Board's recommendation must be submitted to the City
Council for consideration. If the Council determines to call for a public
hearing to consider the issue of suspension or revocation, or the imposition of
a fine, the Council shall follow the procedures described in division (B)
below.
   (B)   No suspension or revocation shall be effective until the rental
property owner has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing under §§ 14.57 to
14.70 of the State Administrative Procedure Act. Should the City Council hold a
public hearing pursuant to the recommendation of the Rental Housing Complaint
Board, all parties shall be afforded an opportunity to appear at the hearing
after receiving reasonable notice. The notice shall state the time, place and
issues involved. At this hearing, license holders may present evidence of
mitigating circumstances that would allow a rental property owner to retain his
or her license or the right to obtain a license. The City Council shall, in
good faith, hear and consider this evidence in making a determination to revoke
or suspend the license or right to receive a license, impose civil penalties or
impose other reasonable conditions based upon violations of this subchapter.
The City Council may postpone or discontinue the proceedings if it appears that
the licensee has taken appropriate measures that will prevent further instances
of disorderly use.
   (C)   The City Council reserves the right to impose any of the following
sanctions for violations of §
96.31(B):
      (1)   Suspend the license or right to receive a license for up to 60
days;
      (2)   Revoke the license or right to receive a license and establish the
time period after which an application for a new certificate for the premises
may be made;
      (3)   Impose a civil fine not to exceed an amount equal to one-month rent
for each violation found as a result of the hearings; and
      (4)   Impose other reasonable conditions intended to limit future
incidents of disorderly use (including but not limited to requiring the
property owner(s) and manager(s) to attend at least one phase 1 session for
crime free multi-housing.
   (D)   Upon expiration of the suspension or revocation period, a license
holder shall pay to the city a reinstatement fee equal in an amount to be
determined by City Council for the first unit re-licensed and a fee in an
amount to be determined by City Council for each additional unit. These fees
may be adjusted periodically by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 28-15) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 96.33 PROSPECTIVE TENANT BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council has determined that there are persons residing in
rental property in the city engaging in disorderly conduct which results in a
hostile environment for other city citizens living in or close to the rental
property. It is the declared purpose and intent of this section to protect and
preserve the city's neighborhoods and the public health, safety, welfare and
morals of its citizens by providing a system at the local level for criminal
history/background investigations of prospective tenants.
   (B)   Any owner of rental property may request that the Police Department
conduct a criminal history/background investigation of a prospective tenant.
The request shall be on a form provided by the Police Department. The rental
applicant shall pay an investigation fee as established by resolution of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 28-16) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Every person violates a provision of §§
96.01 through
96.04 when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful,
or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
performs an act prohibited or declared unlawful, or fails to act when the
failure is prohibited or declared unlawful by a code adopted by reference by §§
96.01 through
96.04 and, upon conviction thereof, the person shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor, except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 7.1-5)
   (C)   A violation of §
96.26 shall be a misdemeanor punishable by up to a $1,000 fine, 90 days in jail
or both.
(Prior Code, § 28-9)
(Ord. 577, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
CHAPTER 97: CEMETERY
Section
   
97.01   Cemetery established
   
97.02   Cemetery grave lots
   
97.03   Cemetery Fund
   
97.04   Sale of lots and interment fees
   
97.05   Internment requirements
   
97.06   Monuments, markers and plantings
   
97.07   Transfer of lot ownership
§ 97.01 CEMETERY ESTABLISHED.
   The cemetery shall be known as "Maple Grove Cemetery" (hereinafter referred
to in this chapter as "cemetery") and consist of the following described tract
of land, to wit: That part of the northwest quarter of Section 4, Township 106
North, Range 16 West, Dodge County, Minnesota describe as follows: Beginning at
the northwest corner of the northwest quarter; thence easterly on a Minnesota
State Plane Grid Azimuth from north 89 degrees 17 minutes 00 seconds along the
north line of the northwest quarter 956.84 feet to the northeast corner of
Maple Grove Cemetery; thence southerly 179 degrees 17 minutes 00 seconds
azimuth along the easterly line of the Maple Grove Cemetery and southerly
extension thereof 1135.90 feet; thence easterly 89 degrees 17 minutes 00
seconds azimuth 1306.02 feet to the east line of the west 90.00 acres of the
north 105.00 acres of the northwest quarter; thence southerly 179 degrees 17
minutes 00 seconds azimuth along the east line 596.60 feet to the south line of
the west 90.00 acres; thence westerly 269 degrees 17 minutes 00 seconds azimuth
along the south line 2024.86 feet; thence northerly 359 degrees 17 minutes 00
seconds azimuth 550.00 feet; thence westerly 269 degrees 17 minutes 00 seconds
azimuth 238.00 feet to the west line of the northwest quarter; thence northerly
359 degrees 17 minutes 00 seconds azimuth along the west line 1182.50 feet to
the point of beginning. The tract contains 52.94 acres more or less. Plus such
other land as the city may acquire for cemetery purposes. The city shall hold,
manage and operate the tract for cemetery purposes in accordance with the
following provisions.
(Prior Code, § 28.1-1) (Ord. 803, passed - -)
§ 97.02 CEMETERY GRAVE LOTS.
   Records concerning the sale of cemetery lots shall be kept by the city.
(Prior Code, § 28.1-2) (Ord. 803, passed - -)
§ 97.03 CEMETERY FUND.
   (A)   A Cemetery Fund shall be created and maintained, for use in the care,
maintenance and improvement of the cemetery.
   (B)   All sums received for deposit to the credit of the Cemetery Fund shall
be kept, managed and administered by the city and shall remain separate and
distinct from general city revenue.
   (C)   A report showing, in detail, how Cemetery Fund monies were expended in
the preceding calendar year shall be included in the annual financial report of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 28.1-7) (Ord. 803, passed - -)
§ 97.04 SALE OF LOTS AND INTERMENT FEES.
   (A)   The city shall sell lots according to the rates established by the
Maple Grove Cemetery Association prior to the transfer until the time that a
fee schedule is set by Council resolution.
   (B)   Interment fees shall be paid in accordance with the rates established
by the Maple Grove Cemetery Association prior to the transfer until the time
that a fee schedule is set by Council resolution.
(Prior Code, § 28.1-8) (Ord. 803, passed - -)
§ 97.05 INTERMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No interment shall be permitted in any lot in the cemetery unless the
requirements of all state statutes and city ordinances regarding interment are
met.
   (B)   The City Council may adopt regulations establishing interment
standards and requirements which shall have the force and effect of the law.
(Prior Code, § 28.1-9) (Ord. 803, passed - -)
§ 97.06 MONUMENTS, MARKERS AND PLANTINGS.
   The City Council shall adopt regulations establishing standards and
requirements regulating the type, location, size, material, number, manner of
placement and installation, and removal of monuments, markers and plantings
permitted within the cemetery. Any charges for monument fees or marker fees
shall be paid in accordance with the rates established by the Maple Grove
Cemetery Association prior to the transfer until a time that a fee schedule is
set by Council resolution.
(Prior Code, § 28.1-10) (Ord. 803, passed - -)
§ 97.07 TRANSFER OF LOT OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Any lot in the cemetery shall be inalienable, except as hereinafter
provided. Any conveyance or alienation, or attempted conveyance or alienation,
of any right, title or interest in or to the lot contrary to the following
provisions shall be void.
   (B)   Owners may transfer a lot in the following circumstances.
      (1)   Transfer by will. Any lot owner may transfer a lot by will to any
surviving relative or to the city, in trust, for the use and benefit of any
person qualified to be buried in the cemetery.
      (2)   Transfer by intestate succession. Upon the death of an intestate
lot owner, the lot, unless used by the decedent, shall descend according to the
provisions of M.S. § 525.14, as may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Transfer during lifetime. Provided that the city receives prior
notice and the appropriate transfer documents are completed, any lot owner may
transfer a lot, whether by gift or otherwise, to any other person; provided
further that, no transfer shall be in excess of the transferor's original
purchase price, or $50, whichever is greater.
(Prior Code, § 28.1-11) (Ord. 803, passed - -; Ord. 819, passed - -)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
111.   AMUSEMENTS
         
112.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
         
113.   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
         
114.   TAXICABS
         
115.   CANNABIS BUSINESSES
         
116.   CANNABIS USE
         
117.   TOBACCO AND RELATED DEVICES AND PRODUCTS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
110.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
110.03   [Reserved]
   
110.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
110.05   Consumption in public places
   
110.06   Possession of alcoholic beverages in city parks
Licensing
   
110.20   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
110.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
110.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
110.23   License fees; pro rata
   
110.24   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
110.25   Application for license
   
110.26   [Reserved]
   
110.27   Applications for renewal
   
110.28   Transfer of license
   
110.29   Investigation
   
110.30   Hearing and issuance
   
110.31   Restrictions on issuance
   
110.32   Conditions of license
   
110.33   Hours and days of sale
   
110.34   Minors on premises
   
110.35   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
110.36   Suspension and revocation
Municipal Liquor Stores
   
110.50   [Reserved]
   
110.51   Existing municipal stores continued
   
110.52   Location
   
110.53   Operation
   
110.54   Proof of financial responsibility
 
   
110.99   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of
the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
chapter is adopted.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018)
§ 110.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018)
§ 110.03 [RESERVED].
§ 110.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C)    A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided
by law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine,
or 3.2% malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of §
110.99(B).
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor on any
public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley, or in any public place other
than on the premises of an establishment licensed under this chapter, in a
municipal liquor dispensary, or where the consumption and display of liquor is
lawfully permitted. Exemption for city parks see §
110.06.
(Ord. 859, passed 5-25-2016; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN CITY PARKS.
    It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to bring upon, possess or
consume in a city park any intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of the following morning of each and every
day of the week. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to bring or
possess in a city park any glass containers.
(Ord. 859, passed 5-25-2016; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
LICENSING
§ 110.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor
licenses that a city may issue. The Council is not required to issue the full
number of licenses that it has available.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018)
§ 110.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses
shall expire on March 31 of each year unless another date is provided by
ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same date. Temporary licenses
expire according to their terms. Consumption and display permits issued by the
Commissioner of Public Safety, and the accompanying city consent to the permit,
shall expire on March 31 of each year.
(Ord. 859, passed 5-25-2016; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018)
§ 110.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council of a city that has a municipal liquor store is authorized to
issue the following licenses and permits.
   (A)   3.2% malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to
restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments used
exclusively for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of
tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   3.2%malt liquor off-sale license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations. Club licenses may be
issued only with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for
club licenses established by the Council under §
110.23 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 2b,
as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may in its sound discretion
authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the
licensed premises at a community festival held within the city under the
provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4b, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned by the city, under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4a, as it may be amended from time to
time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating liquor
to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event being
held on the premises.
   (E)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant, club, bowling
center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least 30 persons, which
holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which serves liquor only in
conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for this license shall be
established by the Council under the provisions of § 110.23 or the maximum
amount provided by M.S. § 340A.504, Subd. 3c, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (F)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least three years. No license shall be for
longer than four consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12
days worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year.
   (G)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety, to restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25 guests at
one time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 5, as it may be
amended from time to time; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which
meet the criteria in M.S. § 340A.401, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time
to time. The fee for an on-sale wine license established by the Council under
the provisions of §
110.23 shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt liquor
with a content over 3.2% (strong beer) without an additional license.
   (H)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization.
   (I)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of §
110.23 shall not exceed the maximum amount permitted by M.S. § 340A.14, Subd.
6, as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption and display permits
shall expire on March 31 of each year.
   (J)   Brewer off-sale malt liquor licenses, which may be issued under M.S. §
340A.301, Subd. 6(c), (i), or (j), with the approval of the Commissioner and
meeting the criteria established by M.S. § 340A.29 as may be amended from time
to time, to sell at its licensed premises malt liquor that has been produced
and packaged by the brewer in compliance with state law. The amount of malt
liquor sold at off-sale may not exceed 750 barrels annually. Application for
small brewer off-sale – 128 ounces per day must be approved by the local
jurisdiction. The amount of malt liquor sold at off-sale under this license may
not exceed 128 ounces per customer per day. Packaging of malt liquor for off-
sale under this license must comply with provisions of Minnesota Rules, parts
7515.1080 to 7515.1120. Off-sale of malt liquor shall be limited to the legal
hours for off-sale licensees, and the malt liquor sold off-sale must be removed
from the premises before the off-sale closing time, except that malt liquor in
growlers only may be sold at off-sale on Sundays. Sunday sales must be approved
by the local jurisdiction. Packaging of malt liquor for off-sale must comply to
M.S. § 340A.285, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018; Am. Ord. 874, passed 5-14-2020; Am. Ord. 3.1-23,
passed 3-22-2023)
§ 110.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for an
intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time by ordinance or resolution
the fee for any of the liquor licenses it is authorized to issue. No liquor
license fee shall be increased without providing mailed notice of a hearing on
the proposed increase to all affected licensees at least 30 days before the
hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated; but no such prorate fee
shall be accepted from any private club or public place which has violated the
permit requirement. In computing such fee, any unexpired fraction of a month
shall be counted as one month. The written receipt shall be posted in some
conspicuous place upon the premises alongside the permit and shall be kept
posted at all times.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. §340A.408, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 859, passed 5-25-2016; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018)
§ 110.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018)
§ 110.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Every application for a license under this chapter shall contain the
following:
   (A)   Verification. Every application for a license shall be verified and
filed with the City Clerk.
   (B)   General contents. In addition to the information required by the
Department of Public Safety and the State Bureau of Criminal Apprehension, the
initial application shall also contain the further information required herein,
as well as other information that the City Council may from time to time
require.
   (C)   Nature of applicant. The application shall show whether the applicant
is an individual person, corporation, partnership or other form of
organization.
   (D)   Type of license. The application shall state the type of license the
applicant seeks.
   (E)   Individual person. If the applicant is an individual person, the
following information shall be required:
      (1)   True name, place and date of birth and street address of the
applicant.
      (2)   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a name other
than his true name and, if so, what was such name, and information concerning
dates and places where used.
      (3)   The name of the business, if it is to be conducted under a
designated name or style other than the full individual name of the applicant.
In such case, a copy of the certification, as required by M.S. Ch. 333,
certified by the Clerk of the District Court, shall be attached to the
application.
      (4)   Whether the applicant is married or single. If married, the true
name, place and date of birth and street address of the applicant's present
spouse.
      (5)   Street addresses at which the applicant lived during the preceding
five years.
      (6)   Kind, name and location of every business or occupation the
applicant has been engaged in during the preceding five years.
      (7)   Names and addresses of the applicant's employers and partners, if
any, for the preceding five years.
      (8)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of any felony, crime
or violation of any ordinance, other than traffic. If so, the applicant shall
furnish information as to the time, place and offense for which any such
conviction was had.
      (9)   Whether the applicant or his spouse has ever engaged as an employee
of or in operating a saloon, hotel, restaurant, cafe, tavern or other business
of a similar nature. If so, the applicant shall furnish information as to time,
place and length of time of such employment or operation.
      (10)   Whether the applicant has ever been in the military service. If
so, the applicant shall, upon request, exhibit all discharges.
      (11)   The name of the manager or proprietor or other agent in charge of
the premises to be licensed.
   (F)   Partnership. If the applicant is a partnership, the application shall
include the name and address and all information concerning each partner, as is
required of a single applicant in division (E) of this section. A managing
partner, or partners, shall be designated. The interest of each partner in the
business shall be disclosed. A true copy of the partnership agreement shall be
submitted with the application. If the partnership is required to file a
certificate as to trade name under the provisions of M.S. Ch. 333, a true copy
of such certificate certified by the Clerk of the District Court shall be
attached to the application.
   (G)   Corporation. If the applicant is a corporation or other association
and is applying for an "on-sale" license, the following information shall be
required:
      (1)   Name and, if incorporated, the state of incorporation.
      (2)   A true copy of the certificate of incorporation, articles of
incorporation or association agreement and bylaws and, if a foreign
corporation, a certificate of authority, as described in M.S. Ch. 303.
      (3)   The name of the manager or proprietor or other agent in charge of
the premises to be licensed, giving all the information about such person as is
required of a single applicant in division (E) of this section.
      (4)   A list of all persons who, singly or together with their spouse, or
a parent, brother, sister or child of either of them, own or control any
interest in such corporation or association, together with their addresses and
all information as is required of a single applicant in division (E) of this
section.
   (H)   Club. If an application for an on-sale liquor license is submitted by
a club, the following information shall be submitted, in addition to that
required by the Department of Public Safety and by the prior divisions of this
section:
      (1)   The date the club was first organized and the place of such
organization.
      (2)   The purpose for which the club was originally organized and for
which it is now existing.
      (3)   The number of members.
      (4)   The name of the manager, proprietor or other person who shall be in
charge of the licensed premises.
      (5)   A sworn statement by a responsible individual having personal
knowledge of the facts shall be submitted with the application, verifying that
the club meets all of the requirements of M.S. § 340A.101, Subd. 7.
   (I)   Legal description. The exact legal description of the premises to be
licensed, together with a plot plan of the area showing dimensions, location of
buildings, street access, parking facilities and the locations of and distances
to the nearest church building and school grounds.
   (J)   Street address. The street number where the sale of intoxicating
liquors is to be conducted and the rooms where liquor is to be sold or
consumed. An applicant for an "on-sale" license shall submit a floor plan of
the dining room, or dining rooms, which shall be opened to the public, shall
show dimensions and shall indicate the number of persons intended to be served
in each of such rooms, and where on the premises liquor will be sold. The
application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous premises
within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may not
include any parking lot or sidewalk.
   (K)   Federal permit. If a permit from the federal government is required by
the laws of the United States, whether or not such a permit has been issued
and, if so required, in what name issued and the nature of the permit.
   (L)   Financial interest. The names and addresses of all persons, other than
the applicant, who have any financial interest in the business, buildings,
premises, fixtures or stock in trade, the nature of such interest, the amount
thereof and the terms for payment or other reimbursement. This information
shall include, but not be limited to, any lessees, lessors, mortgagees,
mortgagors, lenders, lienholders, trustees, trustors and persons who have
cosigned notes or otherwise loaned, pledged or extended security for any
indebtedness of the applicant.
   (M)   Plans. Whenever the application for an "on-sale" license to sell
intoxicating liquor is for premises planned, under construction or ongoing
substantial alteration, the application shall be accompanied by a set of
preliminary plans showing the design of the proposed premises to be licensed.
   (N)   Value of fixtures. The value of the fixtures and structures, exclusive
of the land, on the premises proposed to be licensed.
   (O)   References. The names, residences and business addresses of three
persons of good moral character, not related to the applicant or financially
interested in the premises or business to be licensed, who may be referred to
as the applicant's character or, in any case where information is required of a
manager, the manager's character.
   (P)   Taxes and other assessments. Whether or not all real estate and other
taxes and assessments or other financial claims with respect to the business
premises to be licensed have been paid and, if not paid, the years for which
they are delinquent.
   (Q)   Release of information. A release authorizing the city to obtain all
financial information that may be appropriate.
   (R)   Other information. Such other information as the City Council shall
require. The requirements of this section and other sections of this chapter
set forth minimum requirements, but the Council reserves that right to consider
any and all other factors as to the qualifications of any applicant and the
suitability of any location.
   (S)   Execution. If the application is by an individual person, it shall be
signed and sworn to by such person; if by a corporation, by an officer thereof;
if by a partnership, by all partners; or if by an unincorporated association,
by the manager or managing officer thereof. If the applicant is a partnership,
the application, license and bond (or insurance policy) shall be made and
issued in the name of all partners.
   (T)   Bond. An application for a license need not be accompanied by a surety
bond unless M.S. Ch. 340A requires same.
   (U)   Liability insurance. Prior to the issuance or renewal of a liquor
license, the applicant shall file with the City Clerk evidence of financial
responsibility. For purposes of the requirements of this section, evidence of
financial responsibility shall be established by the applicant in the manner
provided by M.S. Ch. 340 or any subsequent amendments thereto.
   (V)    Approval of security. The security offered under divisions (T) and
(U) of this section shall be approved by the City Council and, in the case of
applicants for "on-sale" and "on-sale wine" licenses, by the Department of
Public Safety. Surety bonds and liability insurance policies shall be approved
as to form by the City Attorney. Operation of a licensed business without
having on file with the city the security under divisions (T) and (U) of this
section is a cause for revocation of the license.
(Ord. 859, passed 5-25-2016; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018)
§ 110.26 [RESERVED]
§ 110.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018)
§ 110.28 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No transfer of license shall be permitted from place to place or person to
person, without complying with the requirements of an original application.
(Ord. 859, passed 5-25-2016; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.29 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee in an amount to
be determined by City Council which shall be in addition to any license fee.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied.
(Ord. 859, passed 5-25-2016; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018)
§ 110.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018)
§ 110.31 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the city to any one person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not a resident of the
state. The provisions of this division (E) shall not apply to any license
existing on the effective date of this chapter or to the renewal of an existing
license.
   (F)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any public school or
church. The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the church to
the closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018; Am. Ord. 873, passed 9-25-2019; Am. Ord. 8.1-22,
passed 8-18-2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.32 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person serving liquor in an
establishment which has an "on-sale" license shall receive training regarding
the serving of liquor to customers. The training shall be provided by an
organization approved by the Council. Proof of training of the servers shall be
provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee, or any other person designated by the Council to conduct inspections,
to enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee during business
hours without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.33 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours than state
law allows. Intoxicating liquor may be sold on Sunday between 11:00 a.m. and
12:00 midnight. Additionally, intoxicating liquor may be sold between the hours
of 12:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m. on Monday.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any table,
bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes
after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
(Ord. 859, passed 5-25-2016; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.34 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be employed
as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing services
in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multi-purpose building
serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.35 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.36 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council may either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may
act as the hearing body under that act, or it may contract with the Office of
Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within ten days.
Any suspension under this division (B) shall continue until the Council
determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this
chapter have again been met.
   (C)   The provisions of §
110.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or in
lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
MUNICIPAL LIQUOR STORES
§ 110.50 [RESERVED].
§ 110.51 EXISTING MUNICIPAL STORES CONTINUED.
   If the city has in existence on the effective date of this chapter a
municipal liquor store for the sale of intoxicating liquor, the store is
continued. No off-sale intoxicating liquor, including wine and strong beer, may
be sold at retail elsewhere in the city.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.52 LOCATION.
   The municipal liquor store shall be located at a suitable place in the city
as the Council determines by motion. However, no premises upon which taxes,
assessments, or other public charges are delinquent shall be leased for
municipal liquor store purposes. The Council shall have the right to establish
additional off-sale and on-sale stores at other locations as it may, from time
to time, by motion, determine.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018)
§ 110.53 OPERATION.
   (A)   Manager. The municipal liquor store shall be in the immediate charge
of a Liquor Store Manager selected by the Council and paid compensation as is
fixed by the Council. The Manager shall not be a person who would be prohibited
by law or any provision of this chapter from being eligible for an intoxicating
liquor license. The Manager shall furnish a surety bond to the city,
conditioned upon the faithful discharge of the duties of the office, in a sum
as specified by the Council. The bond premium may be paid by the city or the
Manager, in the discretion of the Council. The Manager shall operate the
municipal liquor store under the Council's direction and shall perform those
duties in connection with the store as may be established by the Council. The
Manager shall be responsible to the Council for the conduct of the store in
full compliance with this chapter and with the laws relating to the sale of
intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor.
   (B)   Other employees.  The Council may also appoint additional employees as
may be required and shall fix their compensation. All employees, including the
Manager, shall hold their positions at the pleasure of the Council. No person
under the age of 18 shall be employed in the store. The Council may require the
employees to furnish surety bonds conditioned for the faithful discharge of
their duties in a sum as specified by the Council. The premium on the bond may
be paid by the city or the employees, as the Council determines.
   (C)   Municipal liquor store fund. All of the revenues received from the
operation of a municipal liquor store shall be deposited in a municipal liquor
store fund from which all ordinary operating expenses, including compensation
of the Manager and employees, shall be paid. Surpluses accumulating in the fund
may be transferred to the general fund of the city or to any other appropriate
fund of the city by resolution of the Council, and may be expended for any
municipal purpose. The handling of municipal liquor store receipts and
disbursements shall comply with the procedure prescribed by law and charter for
the receipts and disbursements of city funds generally.
   (D)   Financial statement. The Council shall provide within 90 days
following the end of the calendar year for publication a balance sheet using
generally accepted accounting procedures and a statement of operations of the
municipal liquor store for that year. The balance sheet and statement shall be
published in accordance with the provisions of M.S. § 471.6985, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   Hours of operation. The hours during which the sale of intoxicating
liquor may be sold shall be as provided in §
110.33. No person, other than the Manager or a store employee, may remain in
the municipal liquor store longer than one-half hour after the time when the
sale of intoxicating liquor must cease.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.54 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility required by
licensees of retail intoxicating liquor establishments under the provisions of
M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018)
§ 110.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council may impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of this
chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in order
for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time,
is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the Council shall hold a
hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty and hear any person
who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for suspension or
revocation of the license.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-2018)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Charitable Gaming
   
111.01   State gambling law adopted
   
111.02   Reporting requirements
   
111.03   Limitation on expenditures
   
111.04   Investigation fee
   
111.05   Hours of lawful gambling
Mechanical Amusement Devices
   
111.20   Definitions
   
111.21   License required; application; fee; issuance; inspection; display;
transferability
   
111.22   Location of machines
   
111.23   Use for gambling
   
111.24   Free games
   
111.25   Automatic pay-off devices
   
111.26   Destruction of illegally operated machines
   
111.27   Certain machines not regulated
   
111.28   General restrictions for amusement centers
Pool Halls and Bowling Alleys
   
111.40   Applicability
   
111.41   Prohibited practices
   
111.42   Vicarious liability of licensee
   
111.43   Permits and licenses
Lawful Gambling
   
111.60   Adoption of state law by reference
   
111.61   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
111.62   Purpose
   
111.63   Definitions
   
111.64   Applicability
   
111.65   Lawful gambling permitted
   
111.66   Council approval
   
111.67   Application and local approval of premises permits
   
111.68   Local permits
   
111.69   Revocation and suspension of local permit
   
111.70   License and permit display
   
111.71   Notification of material changes to application
   
111.72   Local gambling tax
   
111.73   Contribution of net profits to fund administered by city
   
111.74   Designated trade area
   
111.75   Records and reporting
   
111.76   Hours of operation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Curfew for persons under 16, see §
130.01
   Disturbing the peace, see §
130.02
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Ch. 95
   Parks and Recreation, see
Ch. 92
Statutory reference:
   Authority to license pool halls, bowling alleys and the like, see M.S. §
412.221(25)
   Cafés and restaurants, see M.S. § 340A.101(7)
CHARITABLE GAMING
§ 111.01 STATE GAMBLING LAW ADOPTED.
   Except as they may conflict with the provisions of this subchapter, the
provisions of M.S. Ch. 349, as may be amended from time to time, regulating
charitable gambling are adopted and made part of this subchapter as if set out
in full herein.
(Prior Code, § 9.2-1) (Ord. 735, passed - -)
§ 111.02 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   Each organization licensed to engage in charitable gambling in the city
shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses and profits on at least a
monthly basis. Each organization licensed to engage in charitable gambling
shall report to the city, on an annual basis, its gross receipts, expenses,
profits and the amount of its expenditures for lawful purposes expended within
and without the city's trade area as required by §
111.03. All deductions from gross receipts shall be documented with receipts or
other records indicating the amount, a description of the purchased item or
service or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient, which the
documents shall be provided to the city upon request.
(Prior Code, § 9.2-2) (Ord. 735, passed - -)
§ 111.03 LIMITATION ON EXPENDITURES.
   A licensed organization conducting lawful gambling within the city must
expend 80% of its expenditures for lawful purposes on lawful purposes conducted
or located within the city's trade area. The CITY'S TRADE AREA shall be defined
as the boundaries of the city and shall include any city contiguous to the
boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 9.2-3) (Ord. 735, passed - -)
§ 111.04 INVESTIGATION FEE.
   An organization applying for or renewing a gambling premises permit pursuant
to M.S. § 349.213, Subd. 2, as may be amended from time to time, shall be
assessed an investigation fee at a rate set annually by resolution of the City
Council. This section shall not apply to an application to conduct gambling
exempt from licensing by M.S. Ch. 349, as may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 9.2-4) (Ord. 735, passed - -; Ord. 762, passed - -)
§ 111.05 HOURS OF LAWFUL GAMBLING.
   Lawful gambling may occur in an intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquor
establishment only during the time in which the intoxicating or 3.2% malt
liquor may be sold or dispensed.
(Prior Code, § 9.2-5) (Ord. 735, passed - -)
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 111.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT CENTER. The operation by any person of six or more machines for
public use upon premises solely within one enclosure where the enclosed
premises are devoted exclusively to the operation of mechanical amusement
devices.
   MACHINE. A mechanical amusement device of any of the following types:
      (1)   A machine or contrivance, including "pinball" machines, mechanical
miniature pool tables, bowling machines, shuffleboards, electric rifle or gun
ranges, miniature mechanical devices and games or amusements patterned after
baseball, basketball, hockey and similar games and like devices, machines or
games which may be played solely for amusement and not as gambling devices and
which devices or games are played by the insertion of a coin or coins or at a
fee fixed and charged by the establishment in which the devices or machines are
located, and which contain no automatic pay-off devices for the return of
money, coins, merchandise, checks, tokens or any other thing or item of value;
provided, however, that, the machine may be equipped to permit a free play or
game.
      (2)   Amusement devices designed for and used exclusively as rides by
children such as, but not limited to, kiddie cars, miniature airplane rides,
mechanical horses and other miniature mechanical devices not operated as a part
of or in connection with any carnival, circus, show or other entertainment or
exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 12-12) (Ord. 504, passed - -)
§ 111.21 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE; ISSUANCE; INSPECTION; DISPLAY;
TRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall keep, operate, maintain or permit to be operated
or maintained upon premises within his or her direct or indirect control within
the city any machine, unless the person shall have first procured a license as
hereinafter provided.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or permit operation of an amusement
center on premises owned, leased or operated by him or her, or engage in the
business of operating an amusement center, in the city unless an annual
amusement center license has been obtained. The amusement center license shall
be in lieu of any other license required by this subchapter and specifically
division (D) below. A person, firm, partnership or corporation licensed as an
amusement center shall be exempt from the provisions of divisions (G)(1) and
(2) below.
(Prior Code, § 12-13)
   (B)   The application for the licenses shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant, age, date and place of birth;
      (2)   Prior convictions of applicant, if any;
      (3)   Place where machine or device is to be displayed or operated and
the business conducted at that place; and
      (4)   If the interest of the applicant be that of a corporation or other
business entity, the name of any persons having a 5% or more interest in the
business entity shall be listed.
(Prior Code, § 12-14)
   (C)   (1)   Each applicant for a license to operate or maintain a machine of
the type described in §
111.20 shall pay an annual license fee at a rate set annually by resolution of
the City Council, with a minimum license fee at a rate set annually by
resolution of the City Council per applicant.
      (2)   Each applicant for a license to operate or maintain a machine of
the type described in §
111.20 shall pay an annual license fee at a rate set annually by resolution of
the City Council per machine.
      (3)   Each applicant for a license to operate or maintain an amusement
center of the type described in §
111.20 shall pay an annual license fee at a rate set annually by resolution of
the City Council, which shall permit the applicant to operate an amusement
center having up to 15 machines, with an additional license fee at a rate set
annually by resolution of the City Council per machine per annum for each
machine in excess of 15 operated or maintained at the amusement center.
Provided, however, that, no applicant shall be permitted to have more than 25
machines.
      (4)   Licenses shall cover an annual period from January 1 through
December 31 for each year hereafter; provided, however, that, the initial
license fee for each applicant shall be prorated as of the date of the
application therefor.
      (5)   The application for license shall then be presented to the City
Council for consideration and, if approved, the City Council shall issue the
license to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 12-15)
   (D)   If the machine is of the type described in §
111.20, the applicant shall also submit with his or her application a policy of
liability insurance applicable to death or injury caused by the operation of
the licensed machine in the minimum amounts of $100,000 for injury to or death
of any person or $300,000 for one accident.
(Prior Code, § 12-16)
   (E)   (1)   Application for license shall be made in duplicate and one copy
shall be referred to by the Chief of Police or his or her designated inspector
who shall investigate the location wherein it is proposed to operate the
machine, ascertain if the applicant is a person of good moral character, and
either approve or disapprove the application. No license shall be issued to any
applicant unless approved by the Chief of Police or his or her designated
inspector.
      (2)   Each machine licensed under this subchapter shall be inspected by
the Police Department, which shall affix a plate or tag to each machine
evidencing its being licensed under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-17)
   (F)   The license or licenses herein provided for shall be posted
permanently and conspicuously at the location of the machine in the premises
wherein the device is to be operated or maintained to be operated.
(Prior Code, § 12-18)
   (G)   (1)   The license may be transferred from one machine or device to
another similar machine.
      (2)   Not more than one machine shall be operated under one license and
the applicant or licensee shall be required to secure a license for each and
every machine displayed or operated by him or her.
      (3)   Licenses are issued for one location only and the licenses are
nontransferable between locations.
(Prior Code, § 12-19)
(Ord. 504, passed - -; Ord. 762, passed - -)
§ 111.22 LOCATION OF MACHINES.
   (A)   (1)   No machine shall be located, placed, maintained or operated on
any public street, avenue, boulevard, lane, alley or other public ground within
the city.
      (2)   No machine shall be so located that its operation will create a
nuisance.
   (B)   Maximum number of machines, as defined in §
111.20, shall be limited to 25 in number at any one location or any one
business establishment.
(Prior Code, § 12-20) (Ord. 504, passed - -)
§ 111.23 USE FOR GAMBLING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any machine, or for the owner or
operator of any establishment where it is located, to permit the same to be
used for gambling or for the making of bets or wagers.
(Prior Code, § 12-21) (Ord. 504, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.24 FREE GAMES.
   It shall be unlawful for the licensee or for the owner or operator of the
establishment where the machine is located to give any money, token,
merchandise or any other thing of value or any reward or prize in lieu of free
games registered on the machine and all free games so registered shall be
played on the machine registering the free game, and there shall be no device
on the machine whereby the operator can cancel registered free games.
(Prior Code, § 12-22) (Ord. 504, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.25 AUTOMATIC PAY-OFF DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall keep, maintain, sell or permit to be operated in his,
her, its or their place of business any machine which has been converted into
an automatic pay-off device which shall automatically award money, prizes,
tokens, merchandise, gifts or anything of value, other than free games to the
operator or player of the machine.
   (B)   No person shall convert any machine into an automatic pay-off device.
(Prior Code, § 12-23) (Ord. 504, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.26 DESTRUCTION OF ILLEGALLY OPERATED MACHINES.
   Any machine which shall have been made use of in violation of §§
111.20 and
111.21(A) and (B) may be seized and destroyed in compliance with the provisions
of the statutes of the state relating to gambling devices.
(Prior Code, § 12-24) (Ord. 504, passed - -)
§ 111.27 CERTAIN MACHINES NOT REGULATED.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be held to apply to any machine held or
kept for sale or storage and which is not actually in use or displayed for use.
(Prior Code, § 12-25) (Ord. 504, passed - -)
§ 111.28 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS FOR AMUSEMENT CENTERS.
   (A)   No amusement center nor any coin-operated amusement device or coin-
operated musical device therein shall be operated so as to constitute a public
nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to maintain order on
the licensed premises at all times.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to see that the
licensed premises do not become overcrowded so as to constitute a hazard to the
health or safety of persons therein.
      (2)   The Chief of Police may designate the maximum number of persons to
be permitted on the licensed premises.
   (D)   The licensee shall provide a full-time adult attendant upon the
licensed premises during business hours.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in the business of
operating an amusement center to sell, offer for sale or knowingly permit to be
sold or offered for sale or to be dispensed or consumed or knowingly brought on
the licensed premises any alcoholic beverages or narcotic drugs or to knowingly
allow any illegal activity upon the licensed premises.
   (F)   Every amusement center licensed under this subchapter shall have
affixed on its premises in plain view a decalcomania evidencing the issuance of
its license and each machine on the licensed premises shall have affixed to it
a plate or sticker evidencing its being licensed under this subchapter.
   (G)   The license required and described in this subchapter shall be purely
a personal privilege and shall not constitute property. It is not transferable
in any manner.
(Prior Code, § 12-26) (Ord. 504, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
POOL HALLS AND BOWLING ALLEYS
§ 111.40 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to any place where one or more billiard or pool
tables or bowling alleys are operated or maintained, except for private family
use, whether the place is a social club or a business enterprise operated for
profit.
(Prior Code, § 18-1) (Ord. 433, passed - -)
§ 111.41 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom a license or permit has been
granted, or for any employee of the person, in any billiard hall or any
appurtenant or connected place:
   (A)   Gambling. To permit any form of gambling, except that charitable
gambling licensed by the State of Minnesota;
   (B)   Disorderly conduct and the like. To permit any person to become
disorderly, or to use profane, obscene or indecent language;
   (C)   Hours of operation. To keep the billiard hall open, or to operate
between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.;
   (D)   Sale and the like of narcotics. To sell, possess or knowingly allow
any person in the billiard hall to sell or possess narcotics; and/or
   (E)   Presence of minors. To permit any minor to enter into or remain in any
billiard hall; provided that, this last provision shall not apply, but all
preceding sections shall apply, to any soda fountain, newsstand or other
business carried on in connection with, but reasonably separated from, the
billiard hall.
(Prior Code, § 18-2) (Ord. 433, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.42 VICARIOUS LIABILITY OF LICENSEE.
   The conduct of the agents and employees of a person to whom any license or
permit is issued shall be deemed the conduct of the person himself or herself.
(Prior Code, § 18-3) (Ord. 433, passed - -)
§ 111.43 PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. No billiard hall shall be maintained or operated without
permission granted therefor by the City Council, either in the form of a permit
or a license.
(Prior Code, § 18-4)
   (B)   Permitting property to be used without license or permit. No person
shall permit any real property owned or controlled by him or her to be used as
a billiard hall without a license or permit.
(Prior Code, § 18-5)
   (C)   Clubs. Permission of the City Council to operate and maintain billiard
and pool tables and bowling alleys in an establishment which is not a business
enterprise operated for profit, but is a bona fide club restricting its
privileges to those paying a stated membership fee and making no charge
proportional to the use of the billiard or pool tables or bowling alleys, may
be granted in the form of a permit without any fee. Every provision of this
subchapter shall apply to the bona fide clubs to the same extent as to a
commercial billiard hall, except as otherwise provided.
(Prior Code, § 18-6)
   (D)   Applications.
      (1)   Applications for the licenses or permits shall be filed with the
City Administrator. The owner of the billiard hall or, in the case of a
partnership, all of the partners or, in case of a corporation or association, a
majority of the board of directors or other governing body and also the person
who is to be in charge of the billiard hall, shall sign and swear to the truth
of the application. The application shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Names, residences and occupations for the last five years of the
owner of the billiard hall or, if owned by a partnership, of the partners, or
if owned by a corporation or association, of the executive officers, directors
and manager of the billiard hall;
         (b)   Whether any of the persons listed above in answer to division
(D)(1)(a) above have been convicted of a felony and, if so, the date and place
of the conviction and the offense;
         (c)   Whether any of the persons listed above in answer to division
(D)(1)(a) have ever operated or been employed in or connected with a pool or
billiard hall or bowling alley in the city or in any other place, and, if so,
the name of the place, dates of the connection and whether the license of the
hall or alley was revoked during the connection; and
         (d)   Other information as the City Council may require from time to
time.
      (2)   Any falsehood in the application, or any wilful omission to state
any information called for on the application form, shall render any license or
permit issued thereunder void, and of no effect to protect any person from
prosecution for violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 18-7)
   (E)   Factors in decision to issue.
      (1)   No license or permit shall be issued to any person, unless and
until the City Council shall be satisfied: The proposed billiard hall complies,
as to construction, with all ordinances and laws then in force.
      (2)   Furthermore, the City Council may, for any reasonable cause, refuse
to grant a license or permit.
(Prior Code, § 18-8)
   (F)   Issuance; contents; term; transfer; display, destruction and the like.
      (1)   When the proper fee and bond have been deposited with the City
Administrator and the City Council has so ordered, the City Administrator shall
issue the license or permit.
      (2)   The license or permit shall specify the name of the person to whom
granted, the specific place where the billiard hall is to be located and the
number of tables or alleys authorized.
      (3)   It shall be effective from the date of issuance to the following
January 1.
      (4)   It shall not be transferable.
      (5)   It shall be kept conspicuously posted in the billiard hall to which
it applies. No person shall post the license upon premises other than those for
which issued, nor deface or destroy any license or permit.
(Prior Code, § 18-9)
   (G)   Fee. In all cases other than those described in division (F) above, a
license shall be necessary. The fee for the license shall be at a rate set
annually by a resolution of the City Council for each table or each bowling
alley for the year. Fees for licenses issued July 1 or later in any calendar
year shall be one-half the annual fee.
(Prior Code, § 18-10)
   (H)   Revocation.
      (1)   All licenses and permits granted hereunder shall be revocable for
cause at any time, on reasonable hearing prescribed by the City Council.
      (2)   If there shall be two convictions for violation of this subchapter
in any billiard hall, whether the violations be by the same or different
individuals, and whether of the same or different provisions hereof, the second
conviction shall be cause for automatic revocation of the license or permit
under which the billiard hall is operating.
      (3)   No refund of fees will be paid on revocation.
(Prior Code, § 18-11)
   (I)   Issuance of duplicates. A duplicate license or permit to replace a
lost original or for a different location, upon surrender of the original, may
be issued by the City Council at its discretion, under regulations as it may
prescribe, and on payment of a fee at a rate set annually by resolution of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 18-12)
(Ord. 433, passed - -; Ord. 762, passed - -)
LAWFUL GAMBLING
§ 111.60 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 349, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation, provisions
relating to sales, and all other matters pertaining to lawful gambling are
hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this chapter as if set out
in full. It is the intention of the Council that all future amendments of M.S.
Ch. 349, are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in
existence at the time this chapter was adopted.
(Ord. 8.1-25, passed 8-13-2025)
§ 111.61 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 349.213, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on gambling within its limits beyond those contained in
M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 8.1-25, passed 8-13-2025)
§ 111.62 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate lawful gambling within the city,
to prevent its commercialization, to ensure the integrity of operations, and to
provide for the use of net profits only for lawful purposes.
(Ord. 8.1-25, passed 8-13-2025)
§ 111.63 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 349.12, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter.
   BOARD. The State of Minnesota Gambling Control Board.
   CITY. The City of Kasson.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Kasson.
   LICENSED ORGANIZATION. An organization licensed by the Board.
   LOCAL PERMIT. A permit issued by the city.
   TRADE AREA. Corporate city limits of the City of Kasson.
(Ord. 8.1-25, passed 8-13-2025)
§ 111.64 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall be construed to regulate all forms of lawful gambling
within the city except bingo conducted within a nursing home or a senior
citizen housing project or by a senior citizen organization if the prizes for a
single bingo game do not exceed $10, total prizes awarded at a single bingo
occasion do not exceed $200, only members of the organization, residents of the
nursing home or housing project, and their guests, are allowed to play in a
bingo game, no compensation is paid for any persons who conduct the bingo, and
a manager is appointed to supervise the bingo.
(Ord. 8.1-25, passed 8-13-2025)
§ 111.65 LAWFUL GAMBLING PERMITTED.
   Lawful gambling is permitted within the city provided it is conducted in
accordance with M.S. §§ 609.75 to 609.763, inclusive, as they may be amended
from time to time; M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.23, inclusive, as they may be amended
from time to time; and this chapter.
(Ord. 8.1-25, passed 8-13-2025)
§ 111.66 COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   Lawful gambling authorized by M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.23, inclusive, as they
may be amended from time to time, shall not be conducted unless approved by the
Council, subject to the provisions of this chapter and state law.
(Ord. 8.1-25, passed 8-13-2025)
§ 111.67 APPLICATION AND LOCAL APPROVAL OF PREMISES PERMITS.
   (A)   Any organization seeking to obtain a premises permit from the Board
shall file with the City Clerk an executed, complete duplicate application,
together with all exhibits and documents accompanying the application as will
be filed with the Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance of a premises permit, the
City Clerk shall transmit the application to the Chief of Police for review and
recommendation.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall investigate the matter and make the review
and recommendation to the City Council as soon as possible, but in no event
later than 45 days following receipt of the notification by the city.
   (D)   Organizations applying for a state-issued premises permit shall pay
the city a fee set by Council in the yearly fee schedule for an investigation
fee. This fee shall be refunded if the application is withdrawn before the
investigation is commenced. If approved by the City Council and the Board, a
licensed organization will be responsible for an annual investigative fee for
conducting lawful gambling within the city.
   (E)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the recommendation.
   (F)   The Council shall receive the Police Chief’s report and consider the
application within 45 days of the date the application was submitted to the
City Clerk.
   (G)   The Council shall by resolution approve or disapprove the application
within 60 days of receipt of the application.
   (H)   (1)   The Council shall deny an application for issuance or renewal of
a premises permit for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute,
state rule, or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last three years.
         (b)   Violation by the on-sale establishment or organization leasing
its premises for gambling of any state statute, state rule, or city ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
laws relating to alcoholic beverages, gambling, controlled substances,
suppression of vice, and protection of public safety within the last three
years.
         (c)   Lawful gambling would be conducted at premises other than those
for which an on-sale liquor license has been issued.
         (d)   Lawful gambling would be conducted at more than two premises
within the city.
         (e)   An organization would be permitted to conduct lawful gambling
activities at up to two premises in the city.
         (f)   More than one licensed organization would be permitted to
conduct lawful gambling activities at one premises.
         (g)   Failure of the applicant to pay the investigation fee provided
by division (D) within the prescribed time limit.
         (h)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to
health, safety, and welfare of the community.
      (2)   Otherwise, the Council shall pass a resolution approving the
application.
(Ord. 8.1-25, passed 8-13-2025)
§ 111.68 LOCAL PERMITS.
   (A)   No organization shall conduct lawful gambling excluded or exempted
from state licensure requirements by M.S. § 349.166, as it may be amended from
time to time, without a valid local permit. This section shall not apply to
lawful gambling exempted from local regulation by §
111.64.
   (B)   Applications for issuance or renewal of a local permit shall be on a
form prescribed by the city. The application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of the organization requesting the permit.
      (2)   Name and address of the officers and person accounting for
receipts, expenses, and profits for the event.
      (3)   Dates of gambling occasion for which permit is requested.
      (4)   Address of premises where event will occur.
      (5)   Copy of rental or leasing arrangement, if any, connected with the
event, including rent to be charged to the organization.
      (6)   Estimated value of prizes to be awarded.
   (C)   The fee for a local permit shall be $100. The fee shall be submitted
with the application for a local permit. This fee shall be refunded if the
application is withdrawn before the investigation is commenced.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance or renewal of a local
permit, the City Clerk shall transmit the notification to the Chief of Police
for review and recommendation.
   (E)   The Chief of Police shall investigate the matter and make review and
recommendation to the City Council as soon as possible, but in no event later
than 45 days following receipt of the notification by the city.
   (F)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the recommendation.
   (G)   The Council shall receive the public safety department’s report and
consider the application within 45 days of the date the application was
submitted to the City Clerk.
   (H)   (1)   The Council shall deny an application for issuance or renewal of
a premises permit for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute,
state rule, or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last three years.
         (b)   Violation by the on-sale establishment, or organization leasing
its premises for gambling, of any state statute, state rule, or city ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
laws relating to the operation of the establishment, laws relating to alcoholic
beverages, gambling, controlled substances, suppression of vice, and protection
of public safety within the last three years.
         (c)   The organization has not been in existence for at least three
consecutive years prior to the date of application.
         (d)   The organization does not have at least 13 active and voting
members.
         (e)   Exempted or excluded lawful gambling will not take place at a
premises the organization owns or rents.
         (f)   Exempted or excluded lawful gambling will not be limited to a
premises for which an on-sale liquor license has been issued.
         (g)   Exempted or excluded lawful gambling will occur at more than one
premises within the city.
         (h)   An organization will have a permit to conduct exempted or
excluded lawful gambling activities on more than one premises in the city.
         (i)   More than one licensed, qualified organization will be
conducting exempted or excluded lawful gambling activities at any one premises.
         (j)   Failure of the applicant to pay the permit fee provided by
division (C) within the prescribed time limit.
         (k)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to
health, safety, and welfare of the community.
      (2)   Otherwise the Council shall approve the application.
   (I)   Local permits shall be valid for one year after the date of issuance
unless suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 8.1-25, passed 8-13-2025)
§ 111.69 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LOCAL PERMIT.
   (A)   A local permit may be revoked or temporarily suspended for a violation
by the gambling organization of any state statute, state rule, or city
ordinance relating to gambling.
   (B)   A license shall not be revoked or suspended until written notice and
an opportunity for a hearing have first been given to the permitted person. The
notice shall be personally served or sent by certified or registered mail. If
the person refuses to accept notice, notice of the violation shall be served by
posting it on the premises. Notice shall state the provision reasonably
believed to be violated and shall also state that the permitted person may
demand a hearing on the matter, in which case the permit will not be suspended
until after the hearing is held. If the permitted person requests a hearing,
the Council shall hold a hearing on the matter at least one week after the date
on which the request is made. If, as a result of the hearing, the Council finds
that an ordinance violation exists, then the Council may suspend or revoke the
permit.
(Ord. 8.1-25, passed 8-13-2025)
§ 111.70 LICENSE AND PERMIT DISPLAY.
   All permits issued under state law or this chapter shall be prominently
displayed during the permit year at the premises where gambling is conducted.
(Ord. 8.1-25, passed 8-13-2025)
§ 111.71 NOTIFICATION OF MATERIAL CHANGES TO APPLICATION.
   An organization holding a state-issued premises permit or a local permit
shall notify the city within ten days in writing whenever any material change
is made in the information submitted on the application.
(Ord. 8.1-25, passed 8-13-2025)
§ 111.72 LOCAL GAMBLING TAX.
   (A)   A local gambling tax of 3% per year is imposed on the gross receipts
of a licensed organization from all lawful gambling less prizes actually paid
out by the organization.
   (B)   The tax shall be paid by the organization on a monthly basis and shall
be reported on a copy of the monthly gambling activity summary and tax return
filed with the Minnesota Department of Revenue. The report shall be an exact
duplicate of the report filed with the Department, without deletions or
additions, and must contain the signatures of organization officials as
required on the report form.
   (C)   The tax return and payment of the tax due must be postmarked, or, if
hand-delivered, received in the office of the City Clerk, on or before the last
business day of the month following the month for which the report is made.
   (D)   An incomplete tax return will not be considered timely filed unless
corrected and returned by the due date for filing.
   (E)   Interest shall be charged at a rate of 8% on all overdue taxes owed by
the organization under this section.
(Ord. 8.1-25, passed 8-13-2025)
§ 111.73 CONTRIBUTION OF NET PROFITS TO FUND ADMINISTERED BY CITY.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct lawful gambling within the city
pursuant to M.S. § 349.16, as it may be amended from time to time, shall
contribute 10% of its net profits derived from lawful gambling in the city to a
fund administered and regulated by the city without cost to the fund. The city
shall disburse the funds for charitable contributions as defined by M.S. §
349.12, subd. 7a, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Payment under this section shall be made on the last day of each
month.
   (C)   The city’s use of such funds shall be determined at the time of
adoption of the city’s annual budget or when the budget is amended.
(Ord. 8.1-25, passed 8-13-2025)
§ 111.74 DESIGNATED TRADE AREA.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct gambling within the city shall
expend 100% of its lawful purpose expenditures on lawful purposes conducted
within the city’s trade area.
   (B)   This section applies only to lawful purpose expenditures of gross
profits derived from gambling conducted at a premises within the city’s
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 8.1-25, passed 8-13-2025)
§ 111.75 RECORDS AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Organizations conducting lawful gambling shall file with the City
Clerk one copy of all records and reports required to be filed with the Board,
pursuant to M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time, and rules
adopted pursuant thereto, as they may be amended from time to time. The records
and reports shall be filed on or before the day they are required to be filed
with the Board.
   (B)   Organizations licensed by the Board shall file a report with the city
proving compliance with the trade area spending requirements imposed by §
111.74. Such report shall be made on a form prescribed by the city and shall be
submitted annually.
(Ord. 8.1-25, passed 8-13-2025)
§ 111.76 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Lawful gambling shall not be conducted between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on
any day of the week.
(Ord. 8.1-25, passed 8-13-2025)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of §§
111.20 through
111.28 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punishable as defined by law.
The penalty may be imposed in addition to revocation or suspension of license.
The licensee under §§
111.20 through
111.28, whether or not he or she is in direct control of a machine described in
§
111.20, or the premises upon which the machine is located, may be charged under
§§
111.20 through
111.28 for any violation thereof, by virtue of his or her indirect control of
the machine and premises, resulting from his or her being the licensee.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
111.60 through
111.76; M.S. §§ 609.75 to 609.763, inclusive, as they may be amended from time
to time; or M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.21, as they may be amended from time to time;
or any rules promulgated under those sections, as they may be amended from time
to time, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not more
than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days, or both, plus in
either case the costs of prosecution. In addition, violations shall be reported
to the Board and recommendation shall be made for suspension, revocation, or
cancellation of an organization’s license.
(Prior Code, § 12-27) (Ord. 504, passed - -; Ord. 762, passed - -; Ord. 8.1-25,
passed 8-13-2025)
 
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
112.01   Regulated activity
   
112.02   Registration required
   
112.03   Exemptions
   
112.04   Nonprofit solicitations
   
112.05   Application for registration
   
112.06   Registration
   
112.07   Refusal to register or permit
   
112.08   Revocation or suspension of registration or permit
   
112.09   Right of appeal
   
112.10   Appeals Board
   
112.11   Manner of giving notice
   
112.12   Notice of hearing
   
112.13   Notice of violation
   
112.14   Expirations
   
112.15   No representations by city
   
112.16   Loud noise prohibited
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 REGULATED ACTIVITY.
   As used in this chapter, REGULATED ACTIVITY means the act of going from
place to place or from house to house, or upon private property for any of the
following purposes:
   (A)   To sell personal property, goods, wares, merchandise or services;
   (B)   To solicit or take orders for the sale of personal property, goods,
wares, merchandise or services;
   (C)   To exhibit or show personal property, goods, wares or merchandise or
to explain services; or
   (D)   To conduct a survey relative to any personal property, goods, wares,
merchandise or services.
(Prior Code, § 16-1) (Ord. 738, passed - -)
§ 112.02 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in a regulated activity within
the city without having been first registered by the City Administrator and
without having in possession a receipt of registration issued and signed by the
City Administrator; provided, however, that, persons who are licensed by the
state to carry on a particular activity, persons engaged in a regulated
activity on behalf of an organization which has received a permit under the
provisions of §
112.03, and route salespersons of dairy and other perishable food products,
shall not be subject to the provisions of this section. Each individual person
engaged in a regulated activity must be registered with the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 16-2) (Ord. 738, passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be held to include the acts of
persons selling personal property at wholesale to dealers in the article; nor
to the acts of merchants or their employees in delivering goods in the regular
course of business; nor to include or apply to any farmer or truck gardener who
shall sell, solicit, exhibit, or take orders for the sale of his or her
products of the farm or garden occupied and cultivated by the person. Nothing
contained in this chapter shall be held to prohibit any sale required by
statute or by order of any court, or to prevent any person conducting a bona
fide auction sale pursuant to law. This chapter is inapplicable to the selling
of books, pamphlets, magazines or newspapers which are inextricably intertwined
with a statement carrying a religious, political, philosophical or ideological
message.
(Prior Code, § 16-2.5) (Ord. 738, passed - -)
§ 112.04 NONPROFIT SOLICITATIONS.
   (A)   Any organization desiring to engage in a regulated activity for a
charitable, religious, patriotic or philanthropic purpose not involving the use
of a professional fund raiser shall be exempt from the provisions of §§
112.05 and
112.06 provided a permit is issued as provided in this section and provided
there is filed an application in writing sworn to by oath or affirmation on a
form to be furnished by the City Administrator containing the following
information:
      (1)   Name and business address of the organization;
      (2)   Purpose of the cause for which the permit is sought;
      (3)   Names and addresses of the officers and directors of the
organization;
      (4)   Period during which solicitation is to be carried on, in no case to
exceed 90 days;
      (5)   Whether or not any commission, fees, wages or emoluments are to be
paid to anyone in connection with the regulated activity; and
      (6)   Personal information relating to the identity of the representative
of the applicant applying for the permit, including any information contained
on the individual's drivers license, or other identification card, if the
individual does not have a driver's license.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a PROFESSIONAL FUND RAISER means any
person who for personal financial compensation or profit participates in a
regulated activity in the city on behalf of the organization requesting
exemption under this section. Upon being satisfied that the applicant is a
religious, charitable, patriotic or philanthropic organization whose regulated
activity will not involve the use of a professional fund raiser, the City
Administrator shall issue a permit for 90 days without charge to the applicant
to carry on the activity in the city. The organization, association or
corporation shall furnish all of its members, agents or representatives
conducting solicitation a copy of the permit and written credentials stating
the name of the organization, name of the agent and purpose of solicitation,
which permit copy and credentials must be in the possession of the member,
agent or representative while engaged in a regulated activity.
(Prior Code, § 16-3) (Ord. 738, passed - -)
§ 112.05 APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to be registered under this chapter shall file an
application with the City Administrator. The application shall be on a form
prescribed by the City Administrator and shall require the following
information sworn to under oath or by affirmation:
      (1)   The full legal name and date of birth of the applicant;
      (2)   The business and residence address(es) of the applicant including a
street or rural route address, the city or town, and the state. A post office
box number shall not be accepted as an address for the applicant. Address
information shall include both the applicant's permanent address and, if
different, the applicant's temporary address in the vicinity of the city;
      (3)   The address to which all notices required under this chapter shall
be sent;
      (4)   The age, sex, weight, height and color of eyes and hair of the
applicant;
      (5)   A description of any vehicle and license number to be used in the
regulated activity;
      (6)   The name and address of the person, firm, association or
corporation that the applicant represents or is employed by, or whose
merchandise is being sold. The address information shall indicate a street or
rural route address, the city or town, and the state at which the firm is
located. A post office box number shall not be accepted as an address for the
business entity. Address information shall include both the business entity's
permanent address and, if different, the business entity's temporary address in
the vicinity of the city;
      (7)   A description of the kind and nature of the property, goods, wares,
merchandise or services sold or solicited for sale by the applicant;
      (8)   The signature of the applicant;
      (9)   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation
of any ordinance of the city or any other municipality; and if so, a
description of the nature of the violation, the date of the conviction and the
name of the city involved;
      (10)   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of a
violation of any statute of the United States, the state or any other state;
and if so, a description of the nature of the violation, the date of conviction
and the name of the state or other jurisdiction involved;
      (11)   The length of time during which the regulated activity is to be
conducted, but in no event to exceed 90 days from the date of registration; and
      (12)   Evidence of the identity of the applicant, including any
information contained on the driver's license or other identification card if
the applicant does not have a driver's license.
   (B)   At the time of filing the application, a fee at a rate set annually by
resolution of the City Council shall be paid to the City Administrator to cover
the cost of investigation of the facts stated therein.
   (C)   Each application shall be referred to the Police Department for
investigation, the results of which shall be reported to the City
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 16-4) (Ord. 738, passed - -; Ord. 762, passed - -)
§ 112.06 REGISTRATION.
   Upon being furnished with the required information, payment of the
prescribed fee and the completion of the Police Department investigation, the
City Administrator shall register the applicant forthwith and issue a receipt
of registration, except as provided in §
112.07. The receipt shall contain the signature of the issuing officer and
shall show the name, address and description of the registrant, the kind of
goods to be sold thereunder, the amount of fee paid, the date of issuance and
the length of time the same shall be operative, as well as the license number
and other identifying description of any vehicle used in the regulated
activity. The Administrator shall record the registration in a permanent
record.
(Prior Code, § 16-5) (Ord. 738, passed - -)
§ 112.07 REFUSAL TO REGISTER OR PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall refuse to register any person or issue a
permit to any organization defined in §
112.04 for any of the following reasons:s:
      (1)   The conviction of the applicant for a violation under this chapter
within three years immediately preceding the filing of the application;
      (2)   The prior revocation of registration or permit under this chapter
for cause within three years immediately preceding the filing of the
application; or the revocation of any other license, permit or registration
issued by the United States, the state, any other state or any other
municipality within the United States based upon or involving fraud or
misrepresentation and within three years immediately preceding the filing of
the application;
      (3)   The applicant is under suspension under this chapter;
      (4)   The conviction of the applicant of a violation under any statute of
the United States, the state or any other state or under any ordinance of the
city or any other municipality within the United States, which violation
involved acts which if they occurred in the state would constitute fraud,
misrepresentation, burglary, possession of burglary or theft tools, felony
criminal sexual conduct or embezzlement and which conviction occurred within
three years immediately preceding the filing of the application;
      (5)   The failure or refusal of the applicant to complete any part or all
of the appropriate application form or for submitting false or inaccurate
information on the application form; and
      (6)   The activities proposed to be conducted by the applicant are
unlawful under the ordinances of the city or the laws of the United States or
the state.
   (B)   If registration or permitting is refused, the City Administrator shall
notify the applicant in writing setting forth the grounds for the refusal. The
applicant may appeal from the City Administrator’s decision by filing a written
notice of appeal with the City Administrator within ten days after receipt of
notice from the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 16-6) (Ord. 738, passed - -)
§ 112.08 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF REGISTRATION OR PERMIT.
   The City Administrator shall by service of notice suspend for a period of
not more than 60 days or revoke any registration or permit under the authority
of this chapter for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   The conviction of the registrant of any of the offenses set forth in §
112.07;
   (B)   The conviction of the registrant or permittee under any ordinance of
any city or the laws of the United States, the state or any other state
involving fraud, misrepresentation or embezzlement during the effective period
of the registration or permit;
   (C)   The use of any fraud, misrepresentation, trick or deception in
carrying out or promoting a regulated activity;
   (D)   The refusal of the registrant or permittee to exhibit proof of
registration under this chapter to any official or police officer of the city;
   (E)   The representation upon the application form or otherwise that the
registrant or permittee is an employee, agent or representative of any person
whom the registrant does not, in fact, represent;
   (F)   The refusal or failure of the registrant or permittee to leave the
property or premises of others when requested to leave by the owner or occupant
thereof;
   (G)   The making of any false statement or misrepresentation by the
registrant or permittee to gain entrance to any building or structure within
the city;
   (H)   The use of any false or fraudulent statement, whether written or oral,
or any misrepresentation concerning the price, terms of payment, quality,
quantity or delivery of personal property, goods, wares, merchandise or
services; and/or
   (I)   The violation by the registrant or permittee of any other provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16-7) (Ord. 738, passed - -)
§ 112.09 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   If the City Administrator refuses or fails to register the applicant or
permit the organization, or if registration or permit is suspended or revoked,
the applicant, permittee or registrant may appeal to the City Council by filing
a written notice of appeal with the City Administrator within ten days after
the City Administrator’s decision. If the notice of appeal is not timely filed,
the right of appeal is terminated and thereafter no appeal may be brought. A
timely appeal from a suspension or revocation shall stay the suspension or
revocation until the decision of the Appeals Board is rendered.
(Prior Code, § 16-8) (Ord. 738, passed - -)
§ 112.10 APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created an Appeals Board consisting of four Council
members and Mayor of the city.
   (B)   The Appeals Board shall have authority to hear appeals from the action
of the City Administrator on the following matters:
      (1)   The refusal or failure to register an applicant or permit an
organization;
      (2)   The revocation of a registration or permit; and
      (3)   The suspension of a registration or permit.
   (C)   The Appeals Board may receive all evidence and hear witnesses on
matters germane to the appeal before the Board. The Board shall afford the
registrant, permittee or applicant making the appeal an opportunity to present
evidence, cross examine witnesses and to be heard. The Appeals Board may
affirm, modify or reverse the action taken by the City Administrator.
   (D)   The Appeals Board shall hear all appeals within ten days after written
notice of appeal is filed with the City Administrator and render a decision
within ten days thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 16-9) (Ord. 738, passed - -)
§ 112.11 MANNER OF GIVING NOTICE.
   All notices to be given to an applicant, permittee or registrant under this
chapter shall be given either by personal service, or by mail to the address
for service of notices as shown on the application form. Service by mail shall
be deemed complete on the date of mailing and shall be conclusively presumed
that notice by mail was received by the applicant, permittee or registrant, and
the failure of the applicant, permittee or registrant to receive the notice
shall not invalidate the action taken pursuant to the notice.
(Prior Code, § 16-10) (Ord. 738, passed - -)
§ 112.12 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   Notice of any hearing involving the registrant, permittee or the applicant
shall be given by the City Administrator in writing, setting forth specifically
the purpose, time and place of hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the
registrant, permittee or applicant at least five days prior to the date set for
hearing or shall be personally served at least three days prior to the date set
for hearing.
(Prior Code, § 16-11) (Ord. 738, passed - -)
§ 112.13 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The Police Department shall report to the City Administrator all convictions
for violations of the provisions of this chapter. A registration or permit
shall be automatically canceled and terminated without further action by the
City Administrator upon conviction of the registrant or permittee of a
violation of this chapter or upon a forfeiture of bail by a registrant or
permittee charged with a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16-12) (Ord. 738, passed - -)
§ 112.14 EXPIRATIONS.
   All registrations and permits under this chapter shall automatically expire
90 days from the date of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 16-13) (Ord. 738, passed - -)
§ 112.15 NO REPRESENTATIONS BY CITY.
   The city and its duly authorized agents and employees make no
representations whatsoever as to the quality of the merchandise, service or
other thing offered for sale and make no representations whatsoever concerning
the honesty, integrity or reliability of persons registered under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16-14) (Ord. 738, passed - -)
§ 112.16 LOUD NOISE PROHIBITED.
   No registrant or permittee, nor any person in his or her behalf, shall
shout, cry out, blow a horn, ring a bell or use any sound amplifying device on
any of the streets, alleys, parks or other public places of the city or upon
private premises where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced
therefrom to be capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, alleys, parks
and other public places.
(Prior Code, § 16-15) (Ord. 738, passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 16-16) (Ord. 738, passed - -)
CHAPTER 113: ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
113.01   Purpose and intent
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Application of chapter
   
113.04   Location
   
113.05   Hours of operation
   
113.06   Operation
   
113.07   Licenses
   
113.08   Fees
   
113.09   Inspection
   
113.10   Expiration and renewal
   
113.11   Suspension
   
113.12   Revocation
   
113.13   Transfer of license
§ 113.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Findings. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate adult oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to:
      (1)   Prevent additional criminal activity within the city;
      (2)   Prevent deterioration of neighborhoods and its consequent adverse
effect on real estate values of properties within the neighborhood;
      (3)   To locate adult oriented businesses away from residential areas,
schools, churches and parks and playgrounds; and
      (4)   Prevent concentration of adult oriented businesses within certain
areas of the city.
   (B)   Purpose. The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor
effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any
communicative materials, including adult oriented materials. Similarly, it is
not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults
to adult oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access
by distributors and exhibitors of adult oriented entertainment to their
intended market.
(Prior Code, § 12.2-1) (Ord. 726, passed - -)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOK AND/OR MEDIA STORE. An establishment which excludes minors and
which has a substantial portion of its stock in trade or stock on display
books, magazines, films, videotape or other media which are characterized by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. An establishment which provides dancing or other live
entertainment, if the establishment excludes minors by virtue of age from all
or part of the establishment and if the dancing or other live entertainment is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the performance, depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. Any business which offers its patrons services,
entertainment or the sale of merchandise characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, exposing, describing, discussing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas. Specifically included in the term,
but without limitations, are adult book and media stores, adult cabarets, adult
hotels or motels, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult modeling studios,
adult motion picture arcades, adult motion picture theaters, adult novelty
businesses and other adult establishments.
   ADULT HOTEL or MOTEL. A hotel or motel from which minors are specifically
excluded from patronage and wherein material is presented which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER.
      (1)   A theater in an enclosed building, from which minors are excluded
from all or part of the establishment, with a capacity for less than 50 persons
used for presenting motion pictures, including, but not limited to, film and
videotape, having as a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   Any business which presents motion pictures, from which minors are
excluded from all or part of the establishment, including films and videotapes,
having as a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, for viewing on the premises,
including, but not limited to, private booths, viewing by means of coin-
operated or other mechanical devices, and the viewing of excerpt of motion
pictures offered for sale or rent.
   ADULT MODELING STUDIO. An establishment, which excludes minors from all or
part of the establishment, whose major business is the provision, to customers,
or figure models who are so provided with the intent of providing sexual
stimulation to sexual gratification to the customers and who engage in
specified sexual activities or display specified anatomical areas while being
observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured, photographed or
otherwise depicted by the customers.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place which excludes minors from all or
part of the establishment wherein coin or token operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors or other image producing devices are maintained to show
images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A theater in an enclosed building, from which
minors are excluded from all or part of the establishment, with a capacity of
50 or more persons used regularly and routinely for presenting live
entertainment or motion pictures, including, but not limited to, film and
videotapes, having as a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons herein.
   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business, from which minors are excluded from all
or part of the establishment, which sells, offers to sell or displays devices
which simulate human genitals or devices which are designed for sexual
stimulation.
   ADULT USE. Any of the activities and businesses described in this section
constitute "adult oriented businesses", which are subject to the regulation of
this chapter.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following conditions:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region or pubic hair;
         (b)   Buttock; and
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if opaquely
covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following conditions:
      (1)   An act of sexual intercourse, normal or perverted, actual or
simulated, including genital-genital, anal-genital or oral-genital intercourse,
whether between human beings or between a human being and an animal;
      (2)   Sadomasochistic abuse, meaning flagellation or torture by or upon a
person who is nude or clad in undergarments or in a revealing costume or the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restricted on the
part of one so clothed;
      (3)   Masturbation or lewd exhibitions of the genitals including any
explicit, close-up representation of a human genital organ clothed or
unclothed; and/or
      (4)   Physical contact or simulated physical contact with the clothed or
unclothed pubic areas or buttocks of a human male or female, or the breasts of
a female, whether alone or between members of the same or opposite sex or
between humans and animals in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or
gratification.
(Prior Code, § 12.2-2) (Ord. 726, passed - -)
§ 113.03 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   Except as in this chapter specifically provided, no structure shall be
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or altered, and no structure or
land shall be used, for any purpose nor in any manner which is not in
conformity with this chapter.
   (B)   No adult oriented business shall engage in any activity or conduct or
permit any other person to engage in any activity or conduct in or about the
establishment which is prohibited by any ordinance of the city, the laws of the
state or the United States of America. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as authorizing or permitting conduct which is prohibited or regulated
by other statutes or ordinances, including, but not limited to, statutes or
ordinances prohibiting the exhibition, sale or distribution of obscene material
generally, or the exhibition, sale or distribution of specified materials to
minors.
(Prior Code, § 12.2-3) (Ord. 726, passed - -)
§ 113.04 LOCATION.
   During the term of this chapter, no adult oriented businesses shall be
located less than 500 feet from any residential zoning district boundary or
site used for residential purposes, and less than 500 feet from any church
site, from any school site, from any day care facility or from any park which
is adjacent to property zoned residential. In addition, no adult oriented
business may be located within 500 feet of another adult oriented business. For
purposes of this chapter, this distance shall be a horizontal measurement from
the nearest existing residential district boundary or site used for residential
purposes, church site, school site, day care site, park site or another adult
oriented business site to the nearest boundary of the proposed adult oriented
business site.
(Prior Code, 12.2-4) (Ord. 726, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.05 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No adult oriented business site shall be open to the public from the hours
of 11:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 12.2-5) (Ord. 726, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.06 OPERATION.
   (A)   Off-site viewing. An establishment operating as an adult oriented
business shall prevent off-site viewing of its merchandise, which if viewed by
a minor, would be in violation of M.S. Ch. 617, as may be amended from time to
time, or other applicable federal or state statutes or local ordinances.
   (B)   Entrances. All entrances to the business, with the exception of
emergency fire exits which are not useable by patrons to enter the business,
shall be visible from a public right-of-way.
   (C)   Layout. The layout of the display areas shall be designed so that the
management of the establishment and any law enforcement personnel inside the
store can observe all patrons while they have access to any merchandise offered
for sale or viewing including, but not limited to, books, magazines,
photographs, video tapes or any other material.
   (D)   Illumination. Illumination of the premise's exterior shall be adequate
to observe the location and activities of all persons on the exterior premises.
(Prior Code, § 12.2-6) (Ord. 726, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.07 LICENSES.
   (A)   Licenses required. All establishments, including any business
operating at the time this chapter became effective, operating or intending to
operate an adult oriented business, shall apply for and obtain a license from
the city. A person is in violation of the city code if he or she operates an
adult oriented business without a valid license issued by the city.
   (B)   Applications. An application for a license must be made on a form
provided by the city.
      (1)   The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared, but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches.
      (2)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
section and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the appropriate state, county and local law and codes by the Health Official,
Fire Marshal and Building Official.
      (3)   Application for license shall contain the address and legal
description of the property to be used, the names, addresses, phone numbers,
dates of birth of the owner, lessee, if any, the operator or manager, and all
employees; the name, address and phone number of two persons, who shall be
residents of the state and who may be called upon to attest to the applicant's,
manager's or operator's character; whether the applicant, manager or operator
has ever been convicted of a crime or offense other than a traffic offense and,
if so, complete and accurate information as to the disposition thereof, the
names and addresses of all creditors of the applicant, owner, lessee or manager
insofar as regarding the credit which has been extended for the purposes of
constructing, equipping, maintaining, operating or furnishing or acquiring the
premises, personal effects, equipment or anything incident to the
establishment, maintenance and operation of the business.
      (4)   If the application is made on behalf of a corporation, joint
business venture, partnership or any legally constituted business association,
it shall submit along with its application, accurate and complete business
records showing the names, addresses and dates of birth of all individuals
having an interest in the business, including partners, officers, owners and
creditors furnishing credit for the establishment, acquisition, maintenance and
furnishings of the business and, in the case of a corporation, the names,
addresses and dates of birth of all officers, general managers, members of the
board of directors as well as any creditors who have extended credit for the
acquisition, maintenance, operation or furnishing of the establishment
including the purchase or acquisition of any items of personal property for use
in the operation.
      (5)   All applicants shall furnish to the city, along with their
applications, complete and accurate documentation establishing the interest of
the applicant and any other person having an interest in the premises upon
which the building is proposed to be located or the furnishings thereof,
personal property thereof, or the operation or maintenance thereof.
Documentation shall be in the form of a lease, deed, contract for deed,
mortgage deed, mortgage credit arrangement, loan agreements, security
agreements and any other documents establishing the interest of the applicant
or any other person in the operation, acquisition or maintenance of the
enterprise.
      (6)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
      (7)   All applicants shall furnish to the city, along with their
applications, complete and accurate documentation regarding whether applicant
has been convicted of any of the following offenses:
         (a)   Any sex crimes as defined by M.S. §§ 609.293 through 609.352
inclusive, as may be amended from time to time, or as defined by any ordinance
or statute in conformity therewith;
         (b)   Any obscenity crime as defined by M.S. §§ 617.23 through 617.299
inclusive, as may be amended from time to time, or as defined by any ordinance
or statute in conformity therewith, for which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is a felony offense; or
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
         (c)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on disqualification of the applicant or applicant's spouse.
   (C)   Requalification. An applicant who has been convicted of an offense
listed in division (B)(7) above may qualify for an adult oriented business
license only when the time period required by division (B)(7) above has
elapsed.
   (D)   Posting. The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of
the person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date and the
address of the adult oriented business. The license shall be posted in a
conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the adult oriented business so
that it may be easily read at any time.
   (E)   Council action. The City Council shall act to approve or disapprove
the license application within 120 days from the date the application was
submitted; provided that, the application contains all of the information
required by this chapter. If the application is deficient, the Council shall
act on the application within 120 days from the date that the deficiency has
been corrected.
   (F)   Appeals. Within 90 days after the decision by the Council, the
applicant may appeal to the District Court by serving a notice upon the Mayor
or Clerk of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 12.2-7) (Ord. 726, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.08 FEES.
   Fees shall be set by city resolution on the fee structure.
(Prior Code, § 12.2-8) (Ord. 726, passed - -)
§ 113.09 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Access. An applicant or licensee shall permit health officials,
representatives of the Police Department, Fire Department and Building
Inspection Division, to inspect the premises of an adult oriented business for
the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or
open for business.
   (B)   Refusal to permit inspections. A person who operates an adult oriented
business or his or her agent or employee commits an offense if she or he
refuses to permit a lawful inspection of the premises by health officials,
representatives of the Police Department, Fire Department and Building
Inspection Division at any time it is occupied or open for business. Refusal to
permit inspections may result in the suspension of the license as provided in §
113.11.
   (C)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an
adult motel which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a
permanent or temporary habitation.
(Prior Code, § 12.2-9) (Ord. 726, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.10 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Expiration. Each license shall expire at the end of the calendar year
and may be renewed only by making application as provided in §
113.07(A). Application for renewal must be made at least 60 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 60 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will not be affected.
   (B)   Denial of renewal. When the city denies renewal of a license, the
applicant shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
If, subsequent to denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the
renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a
license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Prior Code, § 12.2-10) (Ord. 726, passed - -)
§ 113.11 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Causes of suspension. The city may suspend a license for a period not
to exceed 30 days if it determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee
has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any provision of this
chapter;
      (2)   Engaged in the use of alcoholic beverages while on the adult
oriented business premises other than at an adult hotel or motel;
      (3)   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
      (4)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the adult oriented
business premises; and
      (5)   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage an adult oriented
business in a peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Notice. A suspension by the city shall be preceded by written notice
to the licensee and a public hearing. The notice shall give at least ten-days'
notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature of the
charges against the licensee. The notice may be served upon the licensee
personally or by leaving the same at the licensed business premises with the
person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 12.2-11) (Ord. 726, passed - -)
§ 113.12 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Suspended licenses. The city may revoke a license if a cause of
suspension in §
113.11 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   Causes of revocation. The city shall revoke a license if it determines
that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the city during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (4)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the adult oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in §
113.07(B)(7), for which the time period required in §
113.07(B)(7), has not elapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises of a
crime listed in §
113.07(B)(7), for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or
persons were employees of the adult oriented business at the time the offenses
were committed.
      (7)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation or masturbation to occur in or on the
licensed premises.
   (C)   Appeals. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license.
   (D)   Exceptions. Section
113.07(B)(7) does not apply to adult motels as a ground for revoking the
license unless the licensee or employee knowingly allowed the act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or sexual contact to occur
in a public place or within public view.
   (E)   Granting a license after revocation. When the city revokes a license,
the revocation shall continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued
an adult oriented business license for one year from the date revocation became
effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the city finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective. If the license was revoked under division (B)(5) above, an applicant
may not be granted another license until the appropriate number of years
required has elapsed.
   (F)   Notice. A revocation by the city shall be preceded by written notice
to the licensee and a public hearing. The notice shall give at least ten day's
notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature of the
charges against the licensee. The notice may be served upon the licensee
personally or by leaving the same at the licensed premises with the person in
charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 12.2-12) (Ord. 726, passed - -)
§ 113.13 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer this license to another, nor shall a licensee
operate an adult oriented business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address designated in the application.
(Prior Code, § 12.2-13) (Ord. 726, passed - -)
CHAPTER 114: TAXICABS
Section
   
114.01   License required
   
114.02   Insurance or bond requirements
   
114.03   Licensed drivers
   
114.04   Identifying symbol
   
114.05   Misrepresentation as a taxicab
   
114.06   Stand-by vehicles
   
114.07   Inspection of vehicles
   
114.08   Sanitation
   
114.09   Additional passengers
   
114.10   Overcrowding
   
114.11   Refusal of passengers
   
114.12   Immoral purposes
   
114.13   Police duties
   
114.14   Reservation of rights
   
114.15   Revocation of licenses
§ 114.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle operated under the authority of this chapter must be
issued a license, signed by the Mayor and City Administrator and shall be
issued to specific vehicles identified as to make, year, model, serial number
and state registration or license numbers required by the application forms
furnished by the City Administrator. The license fee is in an amount to be
determined by City Council per year or fraction thereof for each vehicle.
Licenses shall be issued for the calendar year and shall expire at midnight on
December 31 of the license year.
   (B)   The license certificate for each vehicle shall be located in the
vehicle in a place where it will be easily visible to passengers and law
enforcement personnel.
   (C)   Licenses on vehicles removed from service may be transferred to proper
replacement vehicles by the City Administrator upon application being made to
the City Administrator for the transfer.
(Prior Code, § 29-1) (Ord. 813, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.02 INSURANCE OR BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   Before any licensee operates any taxicab, it shall secure and during the
term of the franchise, maintain in force at all times, a liability insurance
policy covering each vehicle operated as a taxicab, having limits of not less
than $100,000 for bodily injury to any one person, not less than $300,000 for
injuries to more than one person which are sustained in the same accident, and
not less than $50,000 for property damage resulting from one accident. The
policy of insurance shall inure to the benefit of any person who shall be
injured or who shall sustain damage to property proximately caused by the
negligence of the grantee, its servants or agents. A copy of the policy of
insurance or a certificate of the insurance shall be filed in the office of the
City Administrator. The insurance shall be carried with an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state.
(Prior Code, § 29-2) (Ord. 813, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.03 LICENSED DRIVERS.
   Each driver shall be licensed as required by the laws of the state and the
city and shall wear an identification badge at all times while on duty.
(Prior Code, § 29-3) (Ord. 813, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 IDENTIFYING SYMBOL.
   Each taxicab shall bear an identifying symbol or design and the actual name
of the grantee as the owner.
(Prior Code, § 29-4) (Ord. 813, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.05 MISREPRESENTATION AS A TAXICAB.
   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any vehicle, or operate or
permit to be operated any business, using the words "taxi", "taxicab" or "cab"
without compliance with all applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 29-5) (Ord. 813, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.06 STAND-BY VEHICLES.
   In addition to vehicles actually licensed under the foregoing provisions,
the licensee shall be permitted to have available stand-by taxicabs to
temporarily replace licensed vehicles while the licensed vehicles are
undergoing repairs or alterations. In order to qualify a stand-by taxicab, the
grantee shall submit to the City Administrator the same application and
information required for a licensed vehicle, appropriately altering the
application to indicate that the same is for a stand-by vehicle. When stand-by
taxicabs are in use, the city taxicab license of the vehicle undergoing repairs
shall be transferred to the replacement taxicab. None of the provisions of this
section are to be construed as authorizing the operation of a taxicab on the
streets of the city by the grantee without a city license displayed.
(Prior Code, § 29-6) (Ord. 813, passed - -)
§ 114.07 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Prior to the initial use and operation of any vehicle under the
authority of any license, the vehicle shall be thoroughly examined and
inspected by the Police Department and found to comply with all standards of
safety prescribed by the laws of the state or the city. When the Police
Department finds that a vehicle proposed to be used as a taxicab has met the
standards of safety prescribed by law, the Department shall notify the City
Administrator of the fact and the City Administrator is authorized to issue a
license for the vehicle upon compliance of the grantee with the other
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Every vehicle operating under the authority of this chapter shall be
inspected from time to time and at least annually by the Police Department to
ensure the continued maintenance of safe operating conditions. The operation of
any vehicle which fails to meet the standards of safety established by laws
shall be discontinued until the time as the deficiency is eliminated.
(Prior Code, § 29-7) (Ord. 813, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.08 SANITATION.
   Vehicles must be kept in a clean and sanitary condition. Every vehicle
operating under the authority of this chapter shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition both as to interior and exterior.
(Prior Code, § 29-8) (Ord. 813, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.09 ADDITIONAL PASSENGERS.
   No driver shall permit any other person to occupy or ride in a taxicab
unless the person or persons first employing the taxicab shall request or
consent to the acceptance of additional passengers.
(Prior Code, § 29-9) (Ord. 813, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.10 OVERCROWDING.
   No driver shall permit more persons to be carried in a taxicab as passengers
than the rated seating capacity of his or her taxicab as stated in the license
for the vehicle issued by the City Administrator. The rated seating for each
taxicab operated under this franchise shall be determined by the Police
Department and reported to the City Administrator for inclusion in the license
certificate.
(Prior Code, § 29-10) (Ord. 813, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.11 REFUSAL OF PASSENGERS.
   No driver shall refuse or neglect to convey any orderly person or persons,
upon request, unless previously engaged or unable or forbidden by the
provisions of this chapter to do so.
(Prior Code, § 29-11) (Ord. 813, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.12 IMMORAL PURPOSES.
   No driver shall permit any person to occupy or use the vehicle for the
purpose of prostitution, lewdness or assignation, and it shall be unlawful for
the driver of any taxicab to direct or offer or agree to direct any person to
any place or person for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or assignation,
and it shall be unlawful to transport any person to any building, place or
other person with the knowledge or reasonable cause to know that the purpose of
the transportation is prostitution, lewdness or assignation.
(Prior Code, § 29-12) (Ord. 813, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.13 POLICE DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall watch and observe the conduct of the grantees
and the drivers operating under the license and prosecute any violation of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 29-13) (Ord. 813, passed - -)
§ 114.14 RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.
   The Council expressly reserves the authority and power to make any
amendments to any taxi license and to adopt any other rules and regulations
which do not substantially impair the franchise or privilege granted, but which
are considered necessary or desirable for the public health and welfare or
considered necessary or desirable in the exercise of the general police power.
(Prior Code, § 29-14) (Ord. 813, passed - -)
§ 114.15 REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   The Council may revoke any taxi license on 30-days' notice for any violation
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 29-15) (Ord. 813, passed - -)
CHAPTER 115: CHAPTER 115: CANNABIS BUSINESSES
Section
   
115.01   Administration
   
115.02   Registration of cannabis businesses
   
115.03   Requirements of cannabis businesses
   
115.04   Temporary cannabis events
§ 115.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Findings and purpose. Kasson makes the following legislative findings:
The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of M.S. Ch. 342,
which authorizes the city to protect the public health, safety, welfare of city
residents by regulating cannabis businesses within the legal boundaries of the
city. The city finds and concludes that the proposed provisions are appropriate
and lawful land use regulations for the city, that the proposed amendments will
promote the community's interest in reasonable stability in zoning for now and
in the future, and that the proposed provisions are in the public interest and
for the public good.
   (B)   Authority and jurisdiction. The city has the authority to adopt this
chapter pursuant to:
      (1)   M.S. § 342.13(c), regarding the authority of a local unit of
government to adopt reasonable restrictions of the time, place, and manner of
the operation of a cannabis business provided that such restrictions do not
prohibit the establishment or operation of cannabis businesses.
      (2)   M.S. § 342.22, regarding the local registration and enforcement
requirements of state-licensed cannabis retail businesses and lower-potency
hemp edible retail businesses.
      (3)   M.S. § 152.0263, Subd. 5, regarding the use of cannabis in public
places.
      (4)   M.S. § 462.357, regarding the authority of a local authority to
adopt zoning ordinances.
      (5)   M.S. § 145A.05, regarding local ordinances authority.
      (6)   This chapter shall be applicable to the legal boundaries of the
city.
   (C)   Enforcement. The Kasson City Administration and Police Department are
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. Any
violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law.
Violations of this chapter can occur regardless of whether or not a permit is
required for a regulated activity listed in this chapter.
   (D)   Definitions. Unless otherwise noted in this section, words and phrases
contained in M.S. § 342.01 and the rules promulgated pursuant to any of these
acts, shall have the same meaning in this chapter.
      CANNABIS CULTIVATION. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis
plants within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to
mature plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label
immature plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis
businesses, transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the
same premises, and perform other actions approved by the office.
      CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES. A retail location and the retail location(s)
of mezzobusinesses with a retail operations endorsement, microbusinesses with a
retail operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating a
retail location, excluding lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
      CANNABIS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or
association, foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and
not for the purpose of resale in any form.
      DAYCARE. A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human
Services to provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child's own
home for gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a 24-hour day.
      LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. As defined under M.S. § 342.01, Subd. 50.
      OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management,
referred to as “OCM” in this chapter.
      PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, accommodation, refreshment,
entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whether
licensed or not, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages or
accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the
public.
      PRELIMINARY LICENSE APPROVAL. OCM pre-approval for a cannabis business
license for applicants who qualify under M.S. § 342.17.
      PUBLIC PLACE. A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk; any
enclosed, indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited
to, restaurants; bars; any other food or liquor establishment; hospitals;
nursing homes; auditoriums; arenas; gyms; meeting rooms; common areas of rental
apartment buildings; and other places of public accommodation.
      RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. As defined under M.S. § 245.462, Subd.
23.
      RETAIL REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by the city to a
state-licensed cannabis retail business.
      SCHOOL. A public school as defined under M.S. § 120A.05 or a nonpublic
school that must meet the reporting requirements under M.S. § 120A.24.
      STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota’s
Office of Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
(Ord. 12.1.24, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 115.02 REGISTRATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Consent to registering of cannabis businesses. No individual or entity
may operate a state- licensed cannabis retail business within the city without
first registering with the city. Any state-licensed cannabis retail business
that sells to a customer or patient without valid retail registration shall
incur a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each violation. Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions, the state shall not issue a license to any cannabis
business to operate in Indian country, as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1151, of a
Minnesota Tribal government without the consent of the Tribal government.
   (B)   Compliance checks prior to retail registration. Prior to issuance of a
cannabis retail business registration, the city shall conduct a preliminary
compliance check to ensure compliance with local ordinances. Pursuant to M.S.
Ch. 342, within 30 days of receiving a copy of a state license application from
OCM, the city shall certify on a form provided by OCM whether a proposed
cannabis retail business complies with local zoning ordinances and, if
applicable, whether the proposed business complies with the state fire code and
building code.
   (C)   Registration and application procedure.
      (1)   Fees. The city shall not charge an application fee. A registration
fee, as established in the city’s fee schedule, shall be charged to applicants
depending on the type of retail business license applied for. An initial retail
registration fee shall not exceed $500 or half the amount of an initial state
license fee under M.S. § 342.11, whichever is less. The initial registration
fee shall include the initial retail registration fee and the first annual
renewal fee. Any renewal retail registration fee imposed by the city shall be
charged at the time of the second renewal and each subsequent renewal
thereafter. A renewal retail registration fee shall not exceed $1,000 or half
the amount of a renewal state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, whichever is
less. A medical combination business operating an adult-use retail location may
only be charged a single registration fee, not to exceed the lesser of a single
retail registration fee, defined under this section, of the adult-use retail
business.
      (2)   Application submittal. The city shall issue a retail registration
to a state-licensed cannabis retail business that adheres to the requirements
of M.S. § 342.22.
         (a)   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the Kasson City Hall. Said form shall include
but is not limited to:
            1.   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
            2.   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
            3.   The address and parcel ID for the property which the retail
registration is sought;
            4.   Certification that the applicant complies with the
requirements of local ordinances established pursuant to M.S. § 342.13.
         (b)   The applicant shall include with the form:
            1.   The registration fee as required in division (C)(1);
            2.   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM
license preapproval.
         (c)   Once an application is considered complete, Kasson
Administration shall inform the applicant as such, process the registration
fees, and inform the Kasson City Council.
         (d)   The registration fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
      (3)   Application approval.
         (a)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not
be approved if the cannabis retail business would exceed the maximum number of
registered cannabis retail businesses permitted under division (C)(8).
         (b)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not
be approved or renewed if the applicant is unable to meet the requirements of
this chapter.
         (c)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application that meets
the requirements of this chapter shall be approved.
      (4)   Annual compliance checks. The city shall complete at minimum one
compliance check per calendar year of every cannabis business to assess if the
business meets age verification requirements, as required under M.S. § 342.22,
Subd. 4(b) and M.S. § 342.24. The city shall conduct at minimum one unannounced
age verification compliance check at least once per calendar year. Age
verification compliance checks shall involve persons at least 17 years of age
but under the age of 21 who, with the prior written consent of a parent or
guardian if the person is under the age of 18, attempt to purchase adult-use
cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or
hemp-derived consumer products under the direct supervision of a law
enforcement officer or an employee of the local unit of government. Any
failures under this section must be reported to the Office of Cannabis
Management.
      (5)   Location change. A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall be
required to submit a new application for registration under division (C)(2) if
it seeks to move to a new location still within the legal boundaries of the
city.
      (6)   Renewal of registration. The city shall renew an annual
registration of a state-licensed cannabis retail business at the same time OCM
renews the cannabis retail business’s license. A state-licensed cannabis retail
business shall apply to renew registration on a form established by the city. A
cannabis retail registration issued under this chapter shall not be
transferred.
         (a)   Renewal fees. The city may charge a renewal fee for the
registration starting at the second renewal, as established in the city’s fee
schedule.
         (b)   Renewal application. The application for renewal of a retail
registration shall include but is not limited to: Items required under division
(C)(2).
      (7)   Suspension of registration.
         (a)   When suspension is warranted. The city may suspend a cannabis
retail business’s registration if it violates the ordinances of the city or
poses an immediate threat to the health or safety of the public. The city shall
immediately notify the cannabis retail business in writing the grounds for the
suspension.
         (b)   Notification to OCM. The city shall immediately notify the OCM
in writing the grounds for the suspension. OCM will provide the city and
cannabis business retailer a response to the complaint within seven calendar
days and perform any necessary inspections within 30 calendar days.
         (c)   Length of suspension. 
            1.   The suspension of a cannabis retail business registration may
be for up to 30 calendar days, unless OCM suspends the license for a longer
period. The business may not make sales to customers if their registration is
suspended.
            2.   The city may reinstate a registration if it determines that
the violations have been resolved.
            3.   The city shall reinstate a registration if OCM determines that
the violation(s) have been resolved.
         (d)   Civil penalties. Subject to M.S. § 342.22, Subd. 5(e) the city
may impose a civil penalty, as specified in the city’s fee schedule, for
registration violations, not to exceed $2,000.
      (8)   Limiting registrations. The city shall limit the number of cannabis
retail businesses to no fewer than one registration per 12,500 residents within
the city. If the city has one active cannabis retail business registration for
every 12,500 residents in the county or the cities within the county, the city
shall not be required to register additional state-licensed cannabis retail
businesses. The city shall place no limit on the number of cannabis retail
businesses at this time.
(Ord. 12.1.24, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 115.03 REQUIREMENTS OF CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Minimum buffer requirements.
      (1)   The city shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis business within
1,000 feet of a school.
      (2)   The city shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis business within
1,000 feet of a church or place of worship.
      (3)   The city shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis retail business
within 300 feet of another cannabis retail business.
      (4)   The city shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis business within
500 feet of a day care.
      (5)   The city shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis business within
500 feet of a residential treatment facility.
      (6)   The city shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis business within
500 feet of an attraction within a public park that is regularly used by
minors, including a playground or athletic field.
      (7)   The city shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis business within
500 feet from dwellings unless the applicant is the homeowner.
      (8)   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.367, Subd. 14, nothing in this division
shall prohibit an active cannabis business or a cannabis business seeking
registration from continuing operation at the same site if a school, daycare,
residential treatment facility, or attraction within a public park that is
regularly used by minors moves within the minimum buffer zone.
   (B)   Zoning and land use. Pursuant to the city zoning ordinance the
following licenses shall be available in these districts:
      (1)   Cultivation. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
cultivation are permitted as a conditional use permit in the following zoning
districts:
         (a)   I-1 and I-2 Districts - indoor.
         (b)   DH District with conditions - outdoor.
      (2)   Cannabis manufacturer. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
cannabis manufacturer are permitted as a conditional use permit in the
following zoning districts:
         (a)   I-1 and I-2 Districts.
      (3)   Hemp manufacturer. Businesses licensed or endorsed for low-potency
hemp edible manufacturers permitted as a conditional use permit in the
following zoning districts:
         (a)   I-1 and I-2 Districts.
      (4)   Wholesale. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for wholesale
are permitted as a conditional use permit in the following zoning districts:
         (a)   I-1 and I-2 Districts.
      (5)   Cannabis retail. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
cannabis retail are permitted as a conditional use permit in the following
zoning districts:
         (a)   I-1, C-1, C-2, and C-3 Districts.
   (C)   Hours of operation. Cannabis businesses are limited to retail sale of
cannabis, cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or
hemp-derived consumer products between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
seven days a week.
   (D)   Advertising. Cannabis businesses are permitted to erect up to two
fixed signs on the exterior of the building or property of the business, unless
otherwise limited by city sign ordinances. Kasson sign zoning ordinance for
cannabis business:
      (1)   Signs. Signs shall comply with the general development standards.
Additionally, signs for cannabis businesses shall:
         (a)   Be generic in nature and shall only identify the business name;
and
         (b)   Not contain material classified as advertising or includes an
image designed or likely to appeal to individuals under 21 years of age,
including cartoons, toys, animals, or children, or any other likeness to
images, characters, or phrases that is designed to be appealing to individuals
under 21 years of age or encourage consumption by individuals under 21 years of
age.
      (2)   Outdoor display. Outdoor display is prohibited. An outdoor display
is an outdoor arrangement of objects, items, products or other materials
typically not in a fixed position and capable of rearrangement, designed and
used for the purpose of advertising or identifying a business, product or
service.
(Ord. 12.1.24, passed 12-18-2024)
§ 115.04 TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS.
   (A)   License required. A permit is required to be issued and approved by
the city prior to holding a temporary cannabis event.
   (B)   Registration and application procedure. A registration fee, as
established in the city’s fee schedule, shall be charged to applicants for
temporary cannabis events.
   (C)   Application submittal and review. The city shall require an
application for temporary cannabis events.
      (1)   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the city. Said form shall include, but is not
limited to:
         (a)   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
         (b)   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant.
      (2)   The applicant shall include with the form:
         (a)   The application fee as required in division (B);
         (b)   A copy of the OCM cannabis event license application, submitted
pursuant to M.S. § 342.39, Subd. 2.
      (3)   The application shall be submitted to the Kasson Administration or
other designee for review. If the designee determines that a submitted
application is incomplete, they shall return the application to the applicant
with the notice of deficiencies.
      (4)   Once an application is considered complete, the designee shall
inform the applicant as such, process the application fees, and forward the
application to the City Council for approval or denial.
      (5)   The application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
      (6)   The application for a license for a temporary cannabis event shall
meet the following standards:
         (a)   Except for low-potency cannabis edibles, onsite consumption is
prohibited.
         (b)   No sales of approved products are allowed at temporary cannabis
event.
         (c)   Temporary cannabis events must comply with all requirements
detailed in M.S. § 342.40. The application shall include a detailed plan
addressing the requirements of M.S. § 342.40, Subd. 3-8.
         (d)   Temporary cannabis events are prohibited in residential
districts.
         (e)   Temporary cannabis events shall only be held between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
      (7)   A request for a temporary cannabis event that meets the
requirements of this section shall be approved.
      (8)   A request for a temporary cannabis event that does not meet the
requirements of this section shall be denied. The city shall notify the
applicant of the standards not met and basis for denial.
(Ord. 12.1.24, passed 12-18-2024)
CHAPTER 116: CANNABIS USE
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Prohibition
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANNABIS FLOWER, CANNABIS PRODUCTS, LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES, and HEMP
DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS. Has the same meaning as defined in M.S. § 342.01.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Property that is generally open to or accessible by the
public, except on those premises licensed by the state to permit on-site
consumption.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property, real and personal, that is owned, managed, or
controlled by the city, including, but not limited to, city buildings and all
the land thereon, parking lots, parks, golf courses, pathways and trails, and
city rights-of-way consisting of both the traveled portion and the abutting
boulevard, sidewalks and trails, and any city personal property, such as motor
vehicles, city equipment, and the like.
(Ord. 8.1-23, passed 8-23-2023)
§ 116.02 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products within public property or in a
public place.
(Ord. 8.1-23, passed 8-23-2023)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter is a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 8.1-23, passed 8-23-2023)
CHAPTER 117: TOBACCO AND RELATED DEVICES AND PRODUCTS
Section
   
117.01   Purpose
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   License
   
117.04   Fees
   
117.05   Basis for denial of license
   
117.06   Prohibited sales
   
117.07   Responsibility
   
117.08   Compliance checks and inspections
   
117.09   Other prohibited acts
   
117.10   Exceptions and defenses
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 PURPOSE.
   Because the city recognizes that many retailers sell tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or
lobelia delivery products to persons under the age of 21; and because sales to
person under the age of 21 are a violation of federal and state law; and
because studies have shown that most people who use commercial tobacco products
begin before they have reached the age of 21 years and that those persons who
reach the age of 21 years without having started using commercial tobacco
products are significantly less likely to ever begin; and because the use
commercial tobacco products has been shown to be the cause of several serious
health problems which subsequently place a financial burden on all levels of
government; this chapter shall be intended to regulate the sale of tobacco,
tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery devices, and
nicotine or lobelia delivery products for the purpose of enforcing and
furthering existing laws and to further the official public policy of the State
of Minnesota in regard to preventing young people from starting to use
commercial tobacco products as stated in M.S. § 144.391.
(Ord. 3.2-2023, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 117.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
are given their commonly accepted definitions. The singular shall include the
plural and the plural shall include the singular. The term SHALL means
mandatory and the term MAY means permissive. The following terms shall have the
definitions given to them:
   CHILD-RESISTANT PACKAGING. Packaging that meets the definition set forth in
C.F.R., Title 16, § 1700.15(b), as in effect on January 1, 2015, and was tested
in accordance with the method described in C.F.R., Title 16, § 1700.20, as in
effect on January 1, 2015.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city, or other government agency, uses to
investigate and ensure that those authorized to sell licensed products are
following and complying with the requirements of this chapter. Compliance
checks involve the use of persons under the age of 21 who purchase or attempt
to purchase licensed products. Compliance checks may also be conducted by the
city or other units of government for educational, research, and training
purposes or for investigating or enforcing federal, state, or local laws and
regulations relating to licensed products.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance, whether natural or synthetic, intended for
human consumption through the inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product.
Electronic delivery device includes any component part of such a product,
whether or not marketed or sold separately. Electronic delivery device shall
not include any product that has been authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration for legal sales for use in tobacco cessation treatment or other
medical purposes and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved
purpose.
   INDOOR AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded by
walls, doorways, or windows, whether open or closed, covering more than 50% of
the combined surface area of the vertical planes constituting the perimeter of
the area. A wall includes any retractable divider, garage door, or other
physical barrier, whether temporary or permanent. A standard window screen
(0.011 gauge with an 18 by 16 mesh county is not considered a wall.
   LICENSED PRODUCTS. Collectively refers to any tobacco or tobacco product,
tobacco-related device, electronic delivery device, or nicotine or lobelia
delivery product.
   LOOSIES. Common term used to refer to single cigarettes, cigars, and any
other licensed products that have been removed from their original retail
packaging and offered for sale. Loosies does not include premium cigars that
are hand-constructed, have a wrapper made entirely from whole tobacco leaf, and
have a filler and binder made entirely of tobacco, except for adhesives or
other materials used to maintain size, texture, or flavor.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business that is operated out of a
kiosk, truck, van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter
and not a fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure
authorized for sales transactions.
   NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCT. Any product containing or delivering
nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, or any part of such a
product, that is not tobacco as defined in this section, not including any
product that has been authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for
tobacco use cessation, harm reduction, or for other medical purposes, and is
being marketed and sold for that approved purpose.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where licensed products are
available for sale to the general public. Retail establishments shall include,
but are not limited to grocery stores, tobacco products shops, convenience
stores, liquor stores, gasoline service stations, bars, and restaurants.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE DISPLAY. The open display of licensed products in a retail
establishment in any manner where any person has access to the licensed
products without the assistance or intervention of the licensee or the
licensee’s employee and where a physical exchange of the licensed product from
the licensee or the licensee’s employee to the customer is not required in
order to access the licensed products.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, or pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing,
made, or derived from nicotine, tobacco, marijuana, or other plant, whether
natural or synthetic, that is intended for inhalation. SMOKING also includes
carrying or using an activated electronic delivery device.
   TOBACCO. Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco that is
intended for human consumption, whether chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved,
inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, or any component,
part, or accessory of a tobacco product including but not limited to
cigarettes; cigars; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut, crimp
cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff flour; cavendish;
plug and twist tobacco; fine cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse
scraps, clippings, cuttings and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms
of tobacco. Tobacco does not include any product that has been authorized by
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product,
as a tobacco-dependence product or for other medical purposes, and is being
marketed and sold solely for such approved purposes.
   TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICE. Any rolling papers, wraps, pipes, or other device
intentionally designed or intended to be used with tobacco products. Tobacco-
related device shall include components of tobacco-related devices or tobacco
products, which may be marketed or sold separately. Tobacco-related devices may
or may not contain tobacco.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device that dispenses licensed products upon the insertion of money, tokens, or
other form of payment into or onto the device by the person seeking to purchase
the licensed product.
(Ord. 3.2-2023, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 117.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall sell or offer to sell any licensed
product without first having obtained a license to do so from the city.
   (B)   Application. An application for a license to sell licensed products
shall be made on a form provided by the city. The application shall contain the
full name of the applicant, the applicant’s residential and business addresses
and telephone numbers, the name of the business for which the license is
sought, and any additional information the city deems necessary. Upon receipt
of a completed application, the City Clerk will forward the application to the
City Council for action at its next regularly scheduled meeting. If the City
Clerk determines that an application is incomplete, it will be returned to the
applicant with notice of the information necessary to make the application
complete.
   (C)   Action. The City Council may approve or deny the application for a
license, or it may delay action for a reasonable period of time to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant deemed necessary. If the City
Council approves the application, the City Clerk will issue the license to the
applicant. If the City Council denies the application, notice of the denial
will be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant’s right to
appeal the decision.
   (D)   Term. All licenses issued are valid for one calendar year from the
date of issue.
   (E)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued may be suspended or
revoked following the procedures set forth in § 117.11.
   (F)   License not transferable. All licenses issued are valid only on the
premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to whom the
license was issued. The transfer of any license to another location or person
is prohibited.
   (G)   Movable place of business. No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this chapter.
   (H)   Display. All licenses must be posted and displayed at all times in
plain view of the general public in the retail establishment.
   (I)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this chapter will be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal must be made at least 30 days, but no more than 60 days, before the
expiration of the current license. The issuance of a license under this chapter
shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute right of the applicant and
shall not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the license.
   (J)   Smoking prohibited. Smoking, including smoking for the purpose of the
sampling of licensed products, is prohibited within the indoor area of any
retail establishment licensed under this chapter.
   (K)   Samples prohibited. No person shall distribute samples of any licensed
product free of charge or at a nominal cost. The distribution of licensed
products as a free donation is prohibited.
   (L)   Proximity to youth-oriented facilities. No license will be granted to
any person for a retail establishment location that is within 200 feet of a
youth-oriented facility, as measured by the distance from entrance of the space
to be occupied by the proposed licensee to the entrance of a youth-oriented
facility. This restriction does not apply to an existing license holder who has
been licensed to sell licensed products in that same location for at least one
year before the date this section was enacted into law.
(Ord. 3-2-2023, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 117.04 FEES.
   No license will be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fees are paid in full. The fees will be established by the city’s fee schedule
and may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 3-2-2023, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 117.05 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license include, but
are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The applicant is under 21 years of age.
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to licensed products.
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell licensed products suspended
or revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date of application.
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any of the information required on
the licensing application or provides false or misleading information.
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation from holding a license.
   (B)   Except as may otherwise be provided by law, the existence of any
particular ground for denial does not mean that the city must deny the license.
If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, the city will revoke
the license upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license
under this chapter. The city will provide the license holder with notice of the
revocation, along with information on the right to appeal.
(Ord. 3.2-2023, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 117.06 PROHIBITED SALES.
   (A)   In general. No person shall sell or offer to sell any licensed
product:
      (1)   By means of any type of vending machine unless persons under the
age of 21 are at all times prohibited from entering the licensed establishment.
      (2)   By means of loosies as defined in § 117.02.
      (3)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic, or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process.
      (4)   By means of self-service display. All licensed products must be
stored behind the sales counter, in a locked case, in a storage unit, or in
another area not freely accessible to the general public. Any retailer selling
licensed products at the time this chapter is adopted must comply with this
section within 90 days of the effective date of this chapter.
      (5)   By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state, or other local law, ordinance provision, or
other regulation.
      (6)   By means of liquid, whether or not such liquid contains nicotine,
which is intended for human consumption and use in an electronic delivery
device, in packaging that is not child-resistant. Upon request by the city, a
licensee shall provide a copy of the certificate of compliance or full
laboratory testing report for the packaging used.
   (B)   Legal age. No person shall sell any licensed product to any person
under the age of 21.
      (1)   Age verification. Licensees must verify by means of government-
issued photographic identification containing the bearer’s date of birth that
the purchaser is at least 21 years of age. Verification is not required for a
person over the age of 30. That the person appeared to be 30 years of age or
older does not constitute a defense to a violation of this division.
      (2)   Signage. Notice of the legal sales age, age verification
requirement, and possible penalties for underage sales must be posted
prominently and in plain view at all times at each location where licensed
products are offered for sale. The required signage must be posted in a manner
that is clearly visible to anyone who is or is considering making a purchase.
(Ord. 3.2-2023, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 117.07 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees are responsible for the actions of their employees regarding
the sale, offer to sell, and furnishing of licensed products on the licensed
premises. The sale, offer to sell, or furnishing of any licensed product by an
employee shall be considered an act of the licensee. Nothing in this section
shall be construed as prohibiting the city from also subjecting the clerk to
whatever penalties are appropriate under this chapter, state or federal law, or
applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 3.2-2023, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 117.08 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises must be open to inspection by law enforcement or other
authorized government officials during regular business hours. From time to
time, but at least once per year, the city, or its designee, will conduct
compliance checks. In accordance with state law, the city, or its designee,
will conduct a compliance check that involves the participation of a person at
least 17 years of age, but under the age of 21 to enter the licensed premises
to attempt to purchase licensed products. Prior written consent from a parent
or guardian is required for any person under the age of 18 to participate in a
compliance check. Persons used for the purpose of compliance checks will be
supervised by law enforcement or other designated personnel.
(Ord. 3.2-2023, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 117.09 OTHER PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts are a violation of this
chapter:
   (A)   Use of false identification. It is a violation of this chapter for any
person to use any form of false identification, whether the identification is
that of another person or has been modified or tampered with to represent an
age older than the actual age of the person using that identification.
(Ord. 3.2-2023, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 117.10 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   (A)   Religious, spiritual, or cultural ceremonies or practices. Nothing in
this chapter prevents the provision of tobacco or tobacco-related devices to
any person as part of an indigenous practice or a lawfully recognized
religious, spiritual, or cultural ceremony or practice.
   (B)   Reasonable reliance. It is an affirmative defense to a violation of
this chapter for a person to have reasonably relied on proof of age as
described by state law.
(Ord. 3.2-2023, passed 3-22-2023)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   Notice. A person violating this chapter may be issued, either
personally or by mail, a citation from the city that sets forth the alleged
violation and that informs the alleged violator of their right to a hearing on
the matter and how and where a hearing may be requested, including a contact
address and phone number.
      (2)   Hearings.
         (a)   Upon issuance of a citation, a person accused of violating this
chapter may request in writing a hearing on the matter. Hearing requests must
be made within 30 days of the issuance of the citation and delivered to the
City Clerk or other designated city officer. Failure to properly request a
hearing within 30 days of the issuance of the citation will terminate the
person’s right to a hearing
         (b)   The City Clerk or other designated city officer will set the
time and place for the hearing. Written notice of the hearing time and place
will be mailed or delivered to the accused violator at least ten business days
prior to the hearing.
      (3)   Hearing officer. The City Council will designate a hearing officer.
The hearing officer will be an impartial employee of the city or an impartial
person retained by the city to conduct the hearing.
      (4)   Decision. A decision will be issued by the hearing officer within
ten business days of the hearing. If the hearing officer determines that a
violation of this chapter did occur, that decision, along with the hearing
officer’s reasons for finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed, will
be recorded in writing, a copy of which will be provided to the city and the
accused violator by in-person delivery or mail as soon as practicable. If the
hearing officer finds that no violation occurred or finds grounds for not
imposing any penalty, those findings will be recorded and a copy will be
provided to the city and the acquitted accused violator by in-person delivery
or mail as soon as practicable. The decision of the hearing officer is final,
subject to an appeal as described in division (A)(5) of this section.
      (5)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer must
be filed in Dodge County district court within 30 days of the date of the
decision.
      (6)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Any person over the age of 21 years or
retailer who violates any of the provisions of this chapter may be subject to a
misdemeanor.
      (7)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Administrative penalties
      (1)   Licensees. Any licensee cited for violating this chapter, or whose
employee has violated this chapter, will be charged an administrative fine of
$300 for a first violation; $600 for a second offense at the same licensed
premises within a 36-month period; and $1,000 for a third or subsequent offense
at the same location within a 36-month period. Upon the third violation, the
license will be suspended for a period of not less than seven consecutive days
and may be revoked.
      (2)   Employees of licensees and other individuals. Individuals, 21 years
of age and older found to be in violation of this chapter shall be charged an
administrative fine of $50.
      (3)   Suspension or revocation. Any violation of this chapter may be
grounds for suspension or revocation of a license. The City Council may attach
reasonable conditions to the reinstatement of a suspended or revoked license.
There shall be no license fee refund upon suspension or revocation of a
license.
      (4)   Persons under the age of 21. Persons under the age of 21 who use a
false identification to purchase or attempt to purchase licensed products may
only be subject to non-criminal, non- monetary civil penalties or remedies such
as tobacco-related education classes, diversion programs, community services,
or another non-monetary, civil penalty that the city determines to be
appropriate. The City Council shall consult with educators, parents, guardians,
persons under the age of 21, public health office court personnel, and other
interested parties to determine an appropriate remedy for persons under the age
of 21 in the city in the best interest of the underage person. The remedies for
persons under 21 who use a false identification to purchase or attempt to
purchase licensed products may be established by ordinance and amended from
time to time.
      (5)   Statutory penalties. If the administrative penalty for violations
against licensed retailers authorized to be imposed by M.S. § 461.12, as it may
be amended from time to time, differ from that established in this section,
then the higher penalty will prevail.
(Ord. 3.2-2023, passed 3-22-2023)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for persons under 16
   
130.02   Disturbing the peace
   
130.03   Firearms; discharge
   
130.04   Fireworks
   
130.05   Resisting an officer
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR PERSONS UNDER 16.
   (A)   Hours; exceptions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 16 years to be
on or present in any public street, avenue, alley, park or other public place;
any playground or place open to the public; place of amusement and
entertainment or vacant lot; or any private premises other than those upon
which his or her usual place of residence is located without the knowledge,
consent and approval of the owner or person in charge of or responsible for the
private property in the city between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m.
of the following day on Friday and Saturday nights, and on every other night,
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following morning,
official city time, unless accompanied by his or her parent or guardian or
unless upon some emergency errand by written permission or direction of the
minor's parent or guardian. The fact that the child, unaccompanied by parent or
guardian, is found upon any street, alley or public place or any other place as
hereinbefore set forth after 12:00 midnight or before 5:00 a.m. of the
following day on Friday and Saturday nights or after 10:00 p.m. and before 5:00
a.m. of the following day on every other night shall be prima facie evidence
that the child is there unlawfully and that no reasonable necessity or lawful
excuse exists therefor.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
   (B)   Responsibility of parents and guardians. It shall be unlawful for any
parent or guardian to allow or permit any person under the age of 16 years to
violate the provisions of division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 15-2)
   (C)   Responsibility of business place.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any place of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment or other place of business to permit
any minor under the age of 16 years to loiter, loaf or idle in a place during
the hours prohibited by division (A) above.
      (2)   Whenever the owner or person in charge or in control of any place
of amusement, entertainment, refreshment or other place of business shall find
persons under the age of 16 years loitering, loafing or idling in the place of
business, he or she shall immediately order the person to leave and, if the
person refuses to leave the place of business, the operator shall immediately
notify the Police Department and inform it of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 15-3)
   (D)   Applicability of other laws. Divisions (A) to (C) above shall not be
construed as permitting the presence at any time of any person under the age of
16 years in any place where his or her presence is now prohibited by any
existing law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 15-4)
   (E)   Arrest and notification of parents for violation. Any lawfully
designated police officer is authorized to arrest, with or without warrant, any
person violating the provisions of divisions (A), (B) or (C) above and shall
notify, as soon as reasonably possible, the parents or guardians of any minor
so arrested.
(Prior Code, § 15-5)
(Ord. 408, passed - -; Ord. 480, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, aid, countenance or assist in
making any unlawful noise, riot, disturbance or improper diversion. It shall
also be unlawful for persons to collect in bodies or crowds in the city for any
unlawful purpose, to annoy or disturb any citizen or traveler or to obstruct
any sidewalk or street.
(Prior Code, § 15-6) (Ord. 115, passed - -; Ord. 400, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Disorderly conduct, see M.S. § 609.72
§ 130.03 FIREARMS; DISCHARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to aim any gun, pistol, revolver
or any other firearm, or any air gun, BB gun or pellet gun, whether it is
loaded or not, at or towards any human being, or to willfully discharge any
firearm, air gun, BB gun, pellet gun or other weapon or throw any deadly weapon
in any public place, even though no injury results.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm, air gun,
BB gun, pellet gun, air rifle or bow and arrow upon, over or across any public
road or while within the limits of the right-of-way of any public road or
railroad right-of-way.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm, air gun, BB gun or
pellet gun within 1,000 feet of any platted land in the city; except that, the
Chief of Police of the city may issue special permits for specified times to
residents of platted areas to use firearms, air guns, BB guns or pellet guns to
control animal pests when no better means is available.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the firing of
any gun, pistol or other firearm, air gun, BB gun or pellet gun, when done in
the lawful defense of person, family or property or in necessary enforcement of
law.
(Prior Code, § 15-7) (Ord. 53, passed - -; Ord. 550, passed - -; Ord. 557,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Dangerous weapons generally, see M.S. § 609.66
§ 130.04 FIREWORKS.
   Except as otherwise provided by state law, it shall be unlawful for any
person to offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail, use or explode any
fireworks within the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 15-8) (Ord. 53, passed - -; Ord. 99, passed - -; Ord. 441,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Fireworks, see M.S. §§ 624.20 to 624.25
§ 130.05 RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   No person shall resist any officer of the city while the officer is
performing the duties of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 15-9) (Ord. 209, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
130.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than
$500 or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not exceeding 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 15-7) (Ord. 53, passed - -; Ord. 550, passed - -; Ord. 557,
passed - -)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   DEFINITIONS
         
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
         
152.   MANUFACTURED HOMES
         
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
         
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
150.01   Purpose
   
150.02   Definitions
§ 150.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The language set forth in the text of this title shall be interpreted
in accordance with the following rules of construction:
      (1)   The singular number includes the plural and plural the singular;
      (2)   The present tense includes the past and the future tenses and the
future the present;
      (3)   The word "shall" is mandatory while the word "may" is permissive;
and
      (4)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   (B)   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words not
defined have the meaning given by the latest edition of Merriam-Webster's
Collegiate Dictionary.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 150.02 DEFINITIONS.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. A self-contained dwelling unit with a separate
entrance, kitchen, sleeping area, and full bathroom facilities, which is
located within or attached to an existing residential dwelling.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (BUILDING). A structure detached from a principal
structure located on the same lot and customarily incidental and subordinate to
the principal structure or use.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use of land or of a building or portion thereof customarily
incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the land or building and
located on the same lot with the principal use.
   ALLEY. A service roadway, dedicated to the public, providing a secondary
means of public access to abutting property and not intended for general
traffic circulation.
   ALTERATION. Any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of any
existing building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or interior
partitions, as well as any change in doors, windows, means of ingress or
egress, or any enlargement to or demolition of a building or a structure,
whether horizontally or vertically, or the moving of a building or a structure
from one location or another.
   AMENITY. A natural or created feature that enhances the aesthetic quality,
visual appeal or makes more attractive or satisfying a particular property,
place or area (such as flowers, trees, architecture, cleanliness or paint).
   ANIMAL (PET) SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaged in the sale,
grooming, retail of supplies or veterinary care of pets/non-agricultural
animals; these uses do not include boarding of animals (see KENNELS).
   ANNEXATION. The incorporation of a land area into an existing community with
a resulting change in the boundaries of that community.
   ANTENNA. Any device or equipment used for the transmission or reception of
electromagnetic waves, which may include omni-directional antenna, directional
antenna or parabolic antenna.
   APPURTENANCES. The visible, functional or ornamental objects accessory to
and part of buildings.
   AUTOMOBILE FUEL STATION/SERVICE STATION. The retail dispensing or sales of
vehicular fuels; servicing and repair of automobiles; and including as an
accessory use the sale and installation of lubricants, tires, batteries and
similar vehicle accessories.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning
engines, motor vehicles or trailers, collision service, including body, frame
or fender straightening or repair, overall painting or paint job; vehicle steam
cleaning.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. Minor repairs, incidental body and fender work,
painting and upholstering, replacement or parts and motor services to passenger
automobiles and trucks not exceeding 9,000 pounds gross weight, but not
including any operation specified under AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR, MAJOR.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. Any place where damaged, inoperable, or obsolete
machinery such as cars, trucks and trailers, or parts thereof, are stored,
bought, sold, accumulated, exchanged, disassembled or handled.
   BAR (TAVERN). Premises used primarily for the sale or dispensing of liquor
by the drink for on-site consumption and where food may be available for
consumption on the premises as accessory to the principal use.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building which is wholly or one-half or more
below the average grade of the ground level adjoining the building. If the
height from the average grade level to the first tier of floor beams or joists
is five feet or more, the BASEMENT shall be considered a story.
   BED AND BREAKFAST (GUEST HOUSE or TOURIST HOME). Any dwelling providing
certain rooms in excess of those used by members of the family, as herein
provided, which are rented primarily to the traveling public, on a short-term
basis, customarily overnight or for a weekend.
   BLOCK. A unit of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets and
public land, railroad rights-of-way, waterways or any other barrier to
continuity of development.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS. The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall
be composed of the members of the City Council as authorized by M.S. § 462.354,
Subd. 2, as may be amended from time to time.
   BREWERY. Establishments that brew, bottle, and sell ales, beers, meads and/
or similar malt liquors.
   BREW PUB. A small brewery accessory to a bar or restaurant, generally
limited to selling its beer for consumption on the premises where it is brewed,
excepting only "growlers" for off-site consumption as defined by M.S. §
340A.101, as may be amended from time to time.
   BUFFERYARD. A combination of open spaces, landscaped areas, fences, walls,
berms used to physically separate and screen one use or property from another
so as to visually shield or block noise, lights or other nuisances.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The area of a lot remaining after the minimum yard and open
space requirements of Chapter 154 have been met.
   BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof and
used or built for the shelter or enclosure of any person, animal or chattel of
property of any kind. Any portion completely separated from every other part of
a building by division walls from the ground up and without openings, shall be
deemed as a separate building.
   BUILDING COVERAGE. The ratio of the horizontal area measured from the
exterior surface of the exterior walls of the ground floor of all principal and
accessory buildings on a lot to the total lot area.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to the street line touching that part of a
building closest to the street.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The authorized representative of the city, licensed by
the state, to enforce the State Building Code.
   BUILDING RECORDS. Includes such items as new construction permits; new
construction building inspection records; building permits for the alteration
or remodeling of structures; inspection records for the alteration or
remodeling of structures; and building permit and inspection records for the
repair of damaged structures.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. See SETBACK LINE.
   BUILDING SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaged in the retail of
hardware and similar supplies for home building or repairs as well as services
related to such supplies; examples include, but are not limited to: plumbing,
heating, electrical sales/show rooms and paint wallpaper/home decorating
supplies.
   BUSINESS SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaged in rendering services to
business establishments on a fee or contract basis, such as advertising and
mailing; building maintenance; employment services; management and consulting
services; protective services, equipment rental and leasing; commercial
research; development and testing; photo finishing; and personal supply
services.
   CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY. A correct representation of a survey, showing all
distances correctly and the placement of all monuments and boundaries
correctly, which is prepared and signed by a registered land surveyor under the
laws of the state.
   CHILD. An individual 12 years of age or younger.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A place (or building) other than the child's dwelling
in which care, supervision and guidance of a child unaccompanied by parents,
guardian or custodian is provided on a regular basis for a period of less than
24 hours a day, whether operated for profit or nonprofit.
   CHURCH. See PLACE OF WORSHIP.
   CLINIC. An institution providing diagnostic, therapeutic or preventive
treatment of humans by either doctors, physicians, dentists, other medical
personnel, psychologists or social workers or a combination thereof, acting in
concert and in the same building, where patients are not usually lodged
overnight.
   CO-LOCATION. The location of more than one antenna or set of antennas on the
same wireless communication tower or structure.
   COLUMBARIUM. A vault with niches for urns containing ashes of cremated
bodies.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION FACILITY, INDOOR. Facilities located within a building
or enclosed structure operated as a business and shall include, but are not
limited to, banquet halls, pool halls, skating rinks, indoor swimming pools,
bowling alleys, movie theaters, arcades, jump center and other similar
businesses. Such businesses may also provide accessory snack bar, restaurant,
retails sales of related items and other support facilities.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION, OUTDOOR. Land or facilities operated as a business
that shall include, but are not limited to: outdoor swimming pools, amusement
parks, and other similar businesses; this use does not include golf courses/
country clubs and accessory uses. Such facility may also provide accessory
snack bar, restaurant, retail sales of related items and other support
facilities.
   COMMERCIAL USE. Activity involving the sale of goods or services carried out
for profit.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The adopted official statement of the City Council of
the City of Kasson that sets forth a compilation of policy statements, goals,
standards and maps for ending the physical, social and economic development,
both private and public, and may include, but is not limited to, the following:
statements of policies, goals, standards, a land use plan, a community
facilities plan, official street map, a transportation plan and recommendations
for plan execution. The comprehensive plan represents a compilation of
recommendations for future development of the municipality, from the
municipality's constituents and appointed commissions, which are adopted by the
Planning and Zoning Commission and the City Council.
   CONCEPT PLAN. A concept, informal map of a proposed subdivision or site plan
of sufficient accuracy to be used for the purpose of discussion and
classification.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A specific type of structure or land use listed in Chapter
154 that may be allowed, after an in-depth review procedure and with
appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the approving agency stating that
the conditional use meets all conditions set forth in Chapter 154.
   CONDOMINIUM. A building, or group of buildings, in which dwelling units,
offices or floor area are owned individually, and the structure, common areas
and facilities are owned by all the owners on a proportional, undivided basis.
   CONTRACTOR YARD. Any land or buildings used primarily for the storage of
equipment, vehicles, machinery (new or used), building materials, paints, pipe,
or electrical components used by the owner or occupant of the premises in the
conduct of any contracting trades or business; such businesses include
landscaping, construction and excavation.
   CONTIGUOUS. Next to, abutting or touching and having a boundary, or portion
thereof, that is coterminous.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. Any retail establishment offering for sale prepackaged
food products, household items, newspapers and magazines, and sandwiches and
other freshly prepared foods, such as salads, for off-site consumption.
   DAY CARE HOME. Restricted to a family dwelling in which foster care,
supervision and training for children of school or pre-school age out of their
own home is provided during part of the day, which is less than 24 hours with
no overnight accommodations or facilities and children are delivered and
removed daily and for which all licenses shall be obtained.
   DECK LINE. The intersection of two roof surfaces of a mansard roof forming
the highest horizontal line of the steeper roof slope.
   DISTILLERY. Establishments involved in the production and distillation of
alcoholic spirits, including whiskey, rum, brandy, gin and other distilled
spirits for nonindustrial use.
   DISTRIBUTION FACILITY. An establishment engaged in the receipt, storage and
distribution of goods, products, cargo and materials, including transshipment
by boat, rail, air or motor vehicle.
   DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY. A designated part of a business that allows said
business to serve customers within their automobile, including drive-up
windows, drive-through lanes, speakers, menus, and other similar devices, and
queuing and stacking areas.
   DWELLING. A structure or portion thereof that is used exclusively for human
habitation.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms, designed, occupied or intended for
occupancy as a separate living quarter, with cooking, sleeping and sanitary
facilities provided within the dwelling unit for the exclusive use of a single
family maintaining a household.
      (1)   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED. One dwelling that is not attached
to any other dwelling by any means.
      (2)   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED (TWINHOME, TOWNHOUSE, ROWHOUSE). A
one-unit dwelling attached to one or more dwelling units by a common vertical
wall, with each dwelling located on a separate lot, sometimes referred to as
zero lot line development.
      (3)   DWELLING, TWO-UNIT (DUPLEX). A building on a single lot containing
two dwelling units, each of which is totally separated from the other by an
unpierced wall extending from ground to roof or an unpierced ceiling and floor
extending from exterior wall to exterior wall, except for a common stairwell
exterior to both dwelling units.
      (4)   DWELLING, THREE-UNIT (TRIPLEX). A building containing three
dwelling units, each of which has direct access to the outside or to a common
hall.
      (5)   DWELLING, FOUR-UNIT (QUADRUPLEX). Four attached dwellings in one
building in which each unit has two open space exposures and shares one or two
walls with adjoining units.
      (6)   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building containing five or more dwelling
units, including units that are located one over the other.
   EASEMENT. A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property
owner to and/or for use by the public, a corporation or another person or
entity.
   EGRESS. An exit.
   ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION. Any radiation made up of electromagnetic waves; a
general term for hertzian waves, gamma rays, X-rays, light, ultra-violet,
infra-red (heat) and radio waves. For the purpose of this chapter, this shall
include radar and microwaves.
   ENGINEER. Any person practicing as a professional engineer shall be duly
licensed and certified under the guidelines stipulated in M.S. Ch. 326, as may
be amended from time to time, for their particular field.
   EQUIPMENT SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaged in the display, sale,
and minor repair of electronics, appliances, and other household/office
equipment; examples include, but are not limited to: radio and television
shops, appliance shops, small appliance repair.
   ERECTED. Assembled, raised, built, constructed, reconstructed, moved upon or
any physical operation on the premises required for a building, excavation,
fall, drainage and the like.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Services and utilities needed for the health, safety and
general welfare of the community, such as underground, surface or overhead
electrical, gas, telephone, steam, water, sewerage, communications and
including generating switching stations, poles, lines, pipes, pumping stations,
repeaters, antennas, transmitters and receivers, valves and other utilities and
the equipment, buildings, structures and appurtenances necessary for the
systems to furnish an adequate level of service for the area in which it is
located including cable television.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
   EXTENDED CARE FACILITY. A long-term facility or a distinct part of a
facility licensed or approved as a nursing home, infirmary unit of a home for
the aged or a governmental medical institution.
   FAA. Federal Aviation Administration.
   FAMILY. Any number of persons inhabiting a dwelling unit comprising a single
housekeeping unit and related by blood, marriage, adoption or any unrelated
person who resides therein as though a member of the family including the
domestic employees.
   FARM. A parcel of land which is used for agricultural activities including
cropping, pasture and raising of livestock or fowl for commercial purposes.
   FCC. Federal Communication Commission.
   FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the stage
of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry areas.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE OR FLOODWAY FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of
the floodway.
   FLOODPLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining wetlands, lakes or
watercourses which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   FLOOR AREA. For the purposes of § 154.295, Off-Street Parking, in the case
of offices, merchandising or service types of uses, shall mean the gross floor
area used or intended to be used for services to the public as customers,
patrons, clients, patients or tenants, including areas occupied for fixtures
and equipment used for display or sale of merchandise.
   FLOOR AREA, GROUND. The area within the exterior walls of the principal
structure as measured from the outside walls at the ground floor level, not
including garages or enclosed or unenclosed porches and not including attached
utility or accessory rooms having three or more exterior sides.
   FOOD RETAIL. Establishments primarily engaged in the sale of consumable
goods, with possibility of on-site food production (cooking/baking) for sales
on premises only; examples include: grocery stores, food markets, super
markets, delicatessens, candy shops and bakeries.
   FRONTAGE. The side of a lot abutting on a street; the front lot line.
   GARAGE, MUNICIPAL. A structure owned or operated by a municipality and used
primarily for the parking and storing of vehicles owned by the general public.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL. A structure that is accessory to a residential
building and that is used for the parking and storage of vehicles owned and
operated by the residents thereof and that is not a separate commercial
enterprise available to the general public.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A structure, or portion thereof, other than a private
customer and employee garage or private residential garage, used primarily for
the parking and storage of vehicles and available to the general public.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. Any building, premises and land in which or upon which a
business, service or industry involving the maintenance, servicing, repair or
painting of vehicles is conducted or rendered.
   GRADE.
      (1)   The average elevation of the land around a building; and
      (2)   The percent of rise or descent of a sloping surface.
   GREENBELT. An open area that may be cultivated or maintained in a natural
state surrounding development or used as a buffer between land uses or to mark
the edge of an urban or developed area.
   GREENHOUSE. A building whose roof and sides are made largely of glass or
other transparent or translucent material and in which the temperature and
humidity can be regulated for the cultivation of delicate or out-of-season
plants for subsequent sale or for personal enjoyment; regardless of materials,
a greenhouse shall be considered a structure.
   HARDCOVER. See IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.
   HEIGHT. The vertical distance of a structure which, for the purpose of these
chapters, will be measured from the lowest elevation of the finished grade
surrounding the structure to the highest point of the structure.
   HISTORIC SITE. A structure or place of outstanding historical and cultural
significance and designated as such by state or federal government or agency.
   HOME BUSINESS. A home occupation or profession conducted within the dwelling
unit or an existing accessory structure, solely by the owner and/or residents
of the dwelling, which is detectable from off of the premises and is usually
characterized by activity not normally present within a residential parcel or
neighborhood. A HOME BUSINESS shall require a conditional use permit. (Example:
HOME BUSINESSES may involve the storage of trade inventory incidental to the
service; equipment; repair or assembly service requiring equipment other than
customarily found in a dwelling or accessory structure.)
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any activity carried out for gain in a residents dwelling
unit, solely by the owner and/or residents of that unit, that is confined to
the interior of that unit so as to be undetectable from what is normally
present within a residential dwelling unit and does not qualify as a home
business.
   HOSPITAL. An institution providing primary health services and medical
surgical care to persons, primarily inpatients, suffering from illness,
disease, injury, deformity and other abnormal physical or mental conditions and
including, as an integral part of the institution, related facilities, such as
laboratories, outpatient facilities, training facilities, medical offices and
staff residences.
   HOTEL. A facility offering transient lodging accommodations to the general
public and providing additional services, such as restaurants, meeting rooms,
entertainment and recreational facilities.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any material which prevents, impedes, or slows
infiltration or absorption of stormwater directly into the ground at the rate
of absorption of vegetation-bearing soils, including, but not limited to,
buildings, asphalt, concrete, gravel, aggregate and other surfaces, as
determined by the City Engineer.
   IMPOUNDING WATER. The activity of gathering and enclosing water or creating
areas of open water.
   INCIDENTAL. Subordinate and minor in significance and bearing a reasonable
relationship with the primary use.
   INFRASTRUCTURE. Facilities and services needed to sustain industry,
residential, commercial and all other land use activities.
   INGRESS. Access or entry.
   INOPERATIVE. Incapable of movement under their own power and in need of
repairs. All exterior storage material not included as a permitted use,
accessory use or conditional use, or otherwise permitted by provisions of this
chapter, may be considered as refuse.
   INTERMEDIATE CARE FACILITY. A facility that provides, on a regular basis,
personal care, including dressing and eating and health-related care and
services, to individuals who require the assistance, but who do not require the
degree of care and treatment that a hospital or skilled nursing facility
provides.
   JUNK. Any scrap, waste, reclaimable material or debris, whether or not
stored, for sale or in the process of being dismantled, destroyed, processed,
salvaged, stored, baled, disposed or other use or disposition.
   JUNKYARD. Any area, lot, land, parcel, building or structure, or part
thereof, used for the storage, collection, processing, purchase, sale, salvage
or disposal of junk.
   KENNEL (ANIMAL BOARDING). A commercial establishment in which dogs or
domesticated animals are housed, bred, boarded, or sold, all for a fee or
compensation.
   LANDSCAPE.
      (1)   An expanse of natural scenery; and
      (2)   Lawns, trees, plants and other natural materials, such as rock and
wood chips, and decorative features, including, sculpture, patterned walks,
fountains and pools.
   LIQUOR, OFF-SALE. The commercial sale of intoxicating beverages for
consumption off premises, in compliance with Minnesota State Statute and
licensing requirements.
   LIQUOR, ON-SALE. The commercial sale of intoxicating beverages for
consumption on premises, in compliance with Minnesota State Statute and
licensing requirements.
   LIVE/WORK UNIT. A building or space within a building used jointly for
commercial and residential purposes where the residential use of the space is
secondary or accessory to the primary use as a place of work.
   LONG-TERM CARE FACILITY. An institution or a distinct part of an institution
that is licensed or approved to provide health care under medical supervision
for 24 or more consecutive hours to two or more patients who are not related to
the governing authority or its members by marriage, blood or adoption.
   LOT. A piece or parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by building, or
use, or by other activity permitted thereon and including the open spaces
required under this title.
   LOT AREA. The total area within the lot lines of a lot, excluding any street
rights-of-way.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot or parcel of land abutting upon two or more streets at
their intersection or upon two parts of the same street forming an interior
angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE. The portion of the lot that is covered by impervious surfaces.
   LOT DEPTH. The average distance measured from the front lot line to the rear
lot line.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot that fronts upon two parallel streets or that
fronts upon two streets that do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The length of the front lot line measured at the street right-
of-way line.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE. A line of record bounding a lot that divides one lot from another
lot or from a public or private street or any other public space.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line separating a lot from a street right-of-way.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot
line. In the case of triangular or otherwise irregularly shaped lots, a line
ten feet in length entirely within the lot, parallel to and at a maximum
distance from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
   LOT, NONCOMFORMING. See NONCOMFORMING LOT.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot that exists as shown or described on a plat or deed in
the records of the local Registry of Deeds.
   LOT, SUBSTANDARD. A parcel of land that has less than the minimum area or
minimum dimensions required in the zone in which the lot is located.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lines of a lot measured
at right angles to its depth along a straight line parallel to the front lot
line, measured at the minimum required building setback line, unless otherwise
stated.
   MAKERSPACE (STUDIO). A space primarily used as a work room for at least one
artist or creator that may be open to the public for demonstrations, classes
and retail sales. Studios are generally for the purpose of on-site production
of painting, pottery (ceramics), sculpture, photography, cinematography,
animation or the making of music.
   MANAGED NATURAL LANDSCAPE. A planned, intentional, and maintained planting
of native or nonnative grasses, wildflowers, forbs, ferns, shrubs, or trees,
including but not limited to rain gardens, meadow vegetation, and ornamental
plants. Managed natural landscapes do not include turf-grass lawns left
unattended for the purpose of returning to a natural state.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body
feet or more in length, or, when erected, on site, is 320 or more square feet,
and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems contained in it, and which complies with the Manufactured Home Building
Code, as referred to in M.S. § 327.31, as may be amended from time to time.
   MANUFACTURING. Establishments engaged in the mechanical or chemical
transformation of materials or substances into new products, including the
assembling of component parts, the creation of products, and the blending of
materials, such as lubricating oils, plastics, resins or liquors.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. The processing or fabrication of certain materials or
products where no process involved will produce noise, vibration, air
pollution, fire hazard, or noxious emission which will disturb or endanger
neighboring properties.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. An establishment engaged in manufacturing, assembly,
fabrication, packaging or other industrial processing of products primarily
from extracted or raw materials or the bulk storage and handling of such
products and materials, or an industrial establishment having potential to
produce noise, dust, glare, odors or vibration beyond its property line.
   MAUSOLEUM. A tomb or a building with vaults for the entombment of a number
of bodies.
   MEADOW VEGETATION. Grasses and flowering broad-leaf plants that are native
to, or adapted to, the State of Minnesota, and that are commonly found in
meadow and prairie plant communities, not including noxious weeds.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Buildable subdivisions of three new lots or less created
and recorded by the dividing of an existing subdivision of record.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
generally meets the definition of a MANUFACTURED HOME but is not compliant with
the Manufactured Home Building Code or was constructed prior to July 1, 1972.
   MONUMENT. Concrete and/or metal markers utilized to establish survey points
and lot boundaries. All monuments must be set by a licensed land surveyor.
   MOTEL. An establishment providing sleeping accommodations with a majority of
all rooms having direct access to the outside without the necessity of passing
through the main lobby of the building.
   MUSEUM. An establishment for preserving and exhibiting artistic, historical,
scientific, natural, or man-made objects of interest. Such activity may include
the sale of the objects collected and memorabilia, the sale of crafts work and
artwork, boutiques and the holding of meetings and social events.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot, the area, dimensions or location of which was
lawful prior to the adoption, revision or amendment of this chapter, but that
fails by reason of the adoption, revision or amendment to conform to the
present requirements of the zoning district.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign lawfully existing prior to the effective date
of this chapter, or amendment thereto, that does not conform to all the
standards and regulations of the adopted or amended ordinance.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE OR BUILDING. A structure or building, the size,
dimensions or location of which was lawful prior to the adoption, revision or
amendment to this chapter, but that fails by reason of the adoption, revision
or amendment to conform to the present requirements of the zoning district.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use or activity that was lawful prior to the adoption,
revision or amendment of this chapter, but that fails by reason of the
adoption, revision or amendment to conform to the present requirements of the
zoning district.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. Annual, biennial, or perennial plants that the Minnesota
Department of Agriculture designates as having the potential or are known to be
detrimental to human or animal health, the environment, public roads, crops,
livestock or other property. The list of species designated as noxious weeds
may be amended by the Minnesota Department of Agriculture.
   NUISANCE. An interference with the enjoyment and use of property.
   NURSERY/GREENHOUSE. A business growing and selling trees, flowering and
decorative plants and shrubs.
   NURSING HOME. See INTERMEDIATE CARE FACILITY, EXTENDED CARE FACILITY and
LONG-TERM CARE FACILITY.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along, across or projecting
into any channel, watercourse or regulatory floodplain which may impede, retard
or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching
or collecting debris carried by the water.
   OFFICE. A room or group of rooms used for conducting the affairs of a
business, profession, service, industry or government and generally furnished
with desks, tables, files and communication equipment.
   OFFICE BUILDING. A building used primarily for conducting the affairs of a
business, profession, service, industry or government, or like activity, and
may include ancillary services for office workers, such as a restaurant, coffee
shop, newspaper or candy stand and child care facilities.
   OFFICIAL MAP. An ordinance in map form adopted by the governing body that
conclusively shows the location and width of proposed streets, public
facilities, public areas and drainage rights-of-way.
   OFF-SITE PARKING. Parking provided for a specific use, but located on a site
other than the one on which the specific use is located.
   OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE. A temporary storage area for a motor vehicle that
is directly accessible to an access aisle and that is not located on a
dedicated street right-of-way.
   ON-STREET PARKING. A temporary storage area for a motor vehicle that is
located on a dedicated street right-of-way.
   OPEN SALES LOT. Any open land used or occupied for the purpose of buying,
selling and/or renting merchandise and for the storing of some prior to sale.
   OPEN SPACE. Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved and
set aside, dedicated, designated or reserved for public or private use or
enjoyment.
   ORNAMENTAL PLANTS. Grasses, perennials, annuals, and groundcovers
purposefully planted for aesthetic reasons.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. The keeping, outside of an enclosed structure, of any
goods, junk, material, merchandise or vehicles, in the same place for more than
24 hours.
   OVERLAY ZONE. A zoning district that encompasses one or more underlying
zones and that imposes additional requirements above that required by the
underlying zone.
   PARCEL. A contiguous lot or tract of land owned and recorded as the property
of the same persons or controlled by a single entity.
   PARK. Area of public land developed and maintained for both active and
passive recreational pursuits, including tot-lots, playgrounds, neighborhood
parks, play fields and special purpose areas.
   PARKING AREA. Any public or private area, under or outside of a building or
structure, designed and used for parking motor vehicles including parking lots,
garages, private driveways and legally designated areas of public streets.
   PARKING LOT. A temporary storage area for motor vehicles, not located in an
R-1 or R-1A zoning district.
   PARKING, SHARED. Joint use of a parking area for more than one use.
   PARKING SPACE. A space for the parking of a motor vehicle within a public or
private parking area.
   PARTY WALL. A common shared wall between two separate structures, buildings
or dwelling units.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS. A set of criteria or limits relating to certain
characteristics that a particular use or process may not exceed.
   PERMIT. Written governmental permission issued by an authorized official,
empowering the holder thereof to do some act not forbidden by law, but not
allowed without the authorization.
   PERMITTED USE. Any use allowed in a zoning district and subject to the
restrictions applicable to that zoning district.
   PERMITTED WITH STANDARDS USE. Any use allowed in a zoning district that is
subject to the restrictions applicable to that zoning district as well as use-
specific restrictions, as listed in §§ 154.175 to 154.178.
   PERSON. A corporation, company, association, society, firm, partnership or
joint stock company, as well as an individual, a state and all political
subdivisions of a state or any agency or instrumentality thereof.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaged in providing individual
services generally related to personal needs; examples include, but are not
limited to: barber and beauty shops, dry cleaners, laundromats, tailors, salons
and photography studios.
   PLACE OF WORSHIP. A building with its accessory structures and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which building, together
with its accessory structures and uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). An area of a minimum contiguous size, as
specified by ordinance, to be planned, developed, operated and maintained
according to plan as a single entity and containing one or more structures with
appurtenant common areas.
   PRELIMINARY PUD PLAN. All required maps, information and documents as set
forth in the PUD regulations and as required by the Planning and Zoning
Commission
      (1)   FINAL PUD PLAN. A map made to measurable scale and all associated
documents which present a description and definition of the design requirements
of the PUD to be recorded with the property.
      (2)   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. A governmental agency appointed by
the governing body according to M.S. § 394.30, as may be amended from time to
time.
   PLAT.
      (1)   A map representing a tract of land showing the boundaries and
location of individual properties and streets; and
      (2)   A map of a subdivision or site plan.
   PLAT, FINAL. A map of all or a portion of a subdivision or site plan that is
presented to the approving authority of final approval.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. All required maps, information and documents as set forth
in the subdivision regulations and as required by the Planning and Zoning
Commission for preliminary approval.
   PRELIMINARY APPROVAL. The conferral of certain rights, prior to final
approval, after specific elements of a development have been approved by the
approving authority and agreed to by the applicant.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE (BUILDING). The primary structure in which the
predominant permitted use of the lot is conducted or accomplished.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary or predominant use of any lot or parcel.
   PRINTING. A commercial printing operation involving a process that is
considered printing, imprinting, reproducing, or duplicating images and using
printing methods including but not limited to offset printing, lithography, web
offset, flexographic and screen process printing.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaged in providing
services provided by a member of a recognized profession, typically requiring a
license, certification, and/or any such similar training for the conduct of
that profession; examples include, but are not limited to: medical clinics,
dental clinics, eye clinics, architects, attorneys and engineers.
   PROHIBITED USE. A use that is not permitted in a zoning district.
   PUBLIC HEARING. A meeting announced and advertised in advance and open to
the public, with the public given an opportunity to talk and participate.
   PUBLIC NOTICE. The advertisement of a public hearing in a paper of general
circulation, and through other media sources, indicating the time, place and
nature of the public hearing and where the application and pertinent documents
may be inspected.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. A closely regulated enterprise with a franchise for
providing to the public a utility service deemed necessary for the public
health, safety and welfare.
   PUBLIC UTILITY FACILITIES. See ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   RAIN GARDEN. A native plant garden that is designed not only to
aesthetically improve properties, but also to reduce the amount of stormwater
and accompanying pollutants from entering streams, lakes, and rivers.
   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by a natural or human-made obstruction.
   RECREATION FACILITY. A place designed and equipped for the conduct of sports
and leisure-time activities.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular-type portable structure without permanent
foundation that can be towed, hauled or driven and primarily designed as a
temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping and travel use and
including, but not limited to, travel trailers, truck campers, camping trailers
and self-propelled motor homes.
   REGIONAL FLOOD (BASE FLOOD). A flood which is representative of large floods
known to have occurred generally in the state and reasonably characteristic of
what can be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the
100-year recurrence interval.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be an elevation no lower than one foot above the elevation of
the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation caused by
encroachments on the floodplain that result from designation of a floodway.
   RE-PLAT. A change in a recorded subdivision if the change affects any street
layout, affects any area reserved for public use or diminishes the size of any
lot.
   RESIDENTIAL HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Residences usually occupied by the frail
elderly that provide rooms, meals, personal care and health monitoring services
under the supervision of a professional nurse and that may provide other
services, such as recreational, social and cultural activities, financial
services and transportation.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment where food and drink are prepared, served and
consumed primarily within the principal structure.
   RETAIL, GENERAL. Establishments engaged in selling goods or merchandise to
the general public for personal or household consumption and rendering services
incidental to the sale of the goods; examples include, but are not limited to:
department, variety, clothing, furniture, antique, gift, drug, hardware, and
book stores, news shops, flower shops and show rooms for retail.
   REVIEWING AGENCIES. Reviewing agencies may include, but are not limited to,
the City Engineer, School Board, utility companies, Park Board, County
Surveyor, Department of Natural Resources, Planning and Zoning Commission, MN
DOT, Dodge County Highway Department, City Attorney, City Council and any
additional government agencies city, state or federal, as dictated by statute.
   REZONE. To change the zoning classification of particular lots or parcels of
land.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.
      (1)   A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication, forced
dedication, prescription or condemnation and intended to be occupied by a road,
crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission lines, oil or gas pipeline, water
line, sanitary storm sewer and other similar uses; and
      (2)   Generally, the right of one to pass over the property of another.
   ROOF. The outside top covering of a building.
   ROOF, FLAT. A roof that is not pitched and the surface of which is generally
parallel to the ground.
   ROOF, GABLE. A ridged roof forming a gable at both ends of the building.
   ROOF, GAMBREL. A gabled roof with two slopes on each side, the lower steeper
than the upper.
   ROOF, HIP. A roof with sloping ends and sides.
   ROOF, MANSARD. A roof with two slopes on each of four sides, the lower
steeper than the upper.
   ROOF, SHED. A roof with one slope.
   SCRAP/ SALVAGE STORAGE YARD. Any area, lot, land, parcel, building or
structure, or part thereof, used for the storage, collection, processing,
purchase, sale, salvage or disposal of scrap, waste, reclaimable material or
debris.
   SCREENING. A method of visually shielding or obscuring an abutting or nearby
use or structure from another by fencing, walls, berms or densely planted
vegetation.
   SELF-STORAGE FACILITY (RENTAL STORAGE UNIT). A structure containing
separate, individual, and private storage spaces of varying sizes leased or
rented on individual leases for varying periods of time.
   SETBACK. The distance between the building and any lot line.
   SETBACK, AVERAGE. The mean setback from a street right-of-way of buildings
on both sides of a lot.
   SETBACK LINE. The line that is the required minimum distance from any lot
line and that establishes the area within which a structure must be erected or
placed.
   SHORT-TERM VACATION RENTAL. A dwelling, or portion thereof, that is used for
accommodations or lodging of guests paying a fee or other compensation for a
period of less than 30 consecutive days.
   SIGN. A publicly displayed message using words, letters, symbols or
pictures, bearing information, warning, advertising or other.
      (1)   SIGN, A-FRAME OR SANDWICH BOARD. An advertising sign that is
normally in the shape of an "A" or some derivation thereof, located on the
ground, easily movable, not permanently attached and two sided.
      (2)   SIGN, ANIMATED/FLASHING. A sign that features simulated motion,
either illuminated or not illuminated. If illuminated, a sign that has a light
source not constant in intensity or color at all times, which creates the
illusion of motion through graphic animation, and other motion such as
flashing, blinking, revolving or rotating light. Electronic message signs are
specifically exempt.
      (3)   SIGN, AREA IDENTIFICATION. A freestanding sign which identifies the
name of a neighborhood, a residential subdivision, a multiple-residential
complex consisting of three or more structures or ten or more units, a shopping
center consisting of three or more separate structures, an industrial area
consisting of three or more structures or any combination of the above.
      (4)   SIGN, BANNER. Any sign of fabric or similar material that is
mounted to a pole, fence, building or similar structure at one or more edges.
National, state or municipal flags shall not be considered a BANNER.
      (5)   SIGN, BILLBOARD TYPE. A freestanding sign advertising or containing
information which may or may not pertain to the business on the property where
the sign is located.
      (6)   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION/PROJECT. A temporary sign erected on the
premises prior to or during the period of construction. These signs typically
indicate the names of the architects, engineers, landscape architects,
contractors or similar artisans, and/or owners, financial supporters, sponsors
and similar individuals or firms having a role or interest with respect to the
structure or project, and rental, sale or lease information.
      (7)   SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE. Any sign that by electronic means conveys
a text message or series of messages, including, but not limited to, time and
temperature.
      (8)   SIGN, FINDER. Temporary signs used to direct the reader to a
temporary event such as an open house or garage sale, the signs shall not
exceed eight square feet and shall only be displayed for up to seven days,
during the events.
      (9)   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A self-supporting sign resting on or supported
by means of poles, standards or any other type of base anchored to the ground.
      (10)   SIGN, GRAPHICS. A sign which is an integral part of the building
facade. The sign is painted directly on, carved in or otherwise permanently
imbedded in the facade. Signs in shop windows are included unless they qualify
as auxiliary signs.
      (11)   SIGN, MARQUEE. A structure attached to and projecting from a wall
of building, located above an entrance, which is designed to identify a
business or use located on the premises or to advertise present or scheduled
events on the premises.
      (12)   SIGN, OFFICIAL. A sign placed by an authorized government body
including, but not limited to, street, traffic and highway signs, posted legal
notices, parking signs.
      (13)   SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign temporary in nature, not permanently
attached to the ground or other permanent structure, or a sign designed to be
transported, including, but not limited to: signs designed to be transported by
means of wheels; balloons used as signs; umbrellas used for advertising, except
that advertising umbrellas may be used in conjunction with the operation of a
restaurant; and signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible
from the public right-of-way, unless the vehicle is used for normal day-to-day
operations of a business. Specifically excluded are A-frame and sandwich board
signs.
      (14)   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign, other than a wall sign, which attaches
to and projects from a structure or building facade.
      (15)   SIGN, ROOF. A sign mounted on the roof of a building or which
depends upon a parapet wall for support.
      (16)   SIGN, WALL. A sign mounted parallel to a building facade or other
vertical building surface (which should not be mounted more than 18 inches from
the wall surface to which they are attached).
   SIMILAR USE. A use that has the same characteristics and the specifically
cited uses in terms of the following: trip generation and type of traffic,
parking and circulation, utility demands, environmental impacts, physical space
needs and clientele.
   SITE PLAN. A plan, to scale, showing uses and structures proposed for a
parcel of land as required by the regulations; includes lot lines, streets,
building sites, reserved open space, buildings, major landscape features—both
natural and manmade, the locations of proposed utility lines and any other
information that may be required in order that an informed decision can be made
by the approving authority.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A set of devices whose primary purpose is to provide
for the collection, storage and distribution of solar energy for space heating
or cooling, electricity generation or water heating.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, ACCESSORY. A solar energy system which is directly
connected to or designed to serve the energy needs of the primary use.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING-INTEGRATED. A solar energy system that is
directly incorporated into the building by replacing typical building
materials.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, GROUND-MOUNTED. A solar energy system that is installed
onto the ground directly or by means of brackets or poles.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, ROOF-MOUNTED. A solar energy system mounted to a house
or other building.
   SOLAR FARM, COMMUNITY. A solar array composed of multiple solar panels on
ground-mounted rack or poles which is not directly connected to or designed to
serve the energy needs of the primary use but rather for the primary purpose of
wholesale sales of generated electricity or a financial proxy for retail power.
Solar farms include but are not limited to community solar gardens. A community
solar system may be either an accessory or a principal use.
   SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEM. A system that includes a solar collector and a heat
exchanger that heats or preheats water for building heating systems or other
hot water needs of the building.
   STEEP SLOPE. Where specific information is not available, steep slopes are
lands having average slopes over 12%, as measured over horizontal distances of
50 feet or more, that are not bluffs.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it and including
those basements used for the principal use.
   STREET. Any vehicular way that:
      (1)   Is an existing state, county or municipal roadway;
      (2)   Is shown upon a plat approved pursuant to law;
      (3)   Is approved by other official action; or
      (4)   Is shown on a plat duly filed and recorded in the office of the
County Recorder prior to the appointment of a government body with the power to
review plats; includes the land between the street lines, whether improved or
unimproved.
   STREET TYPE.
      (1)   ALLEYS. A service roadway, dedicated to the public, providing a
secondary means of public access to abutting property and not intended for
general traffic circulation.
      (2)   ARTERIAL. Streets carrying large volumes of local traffic between
widely separated areas of the community and which may be designated as county
state aid highways.
      (3)   COLLECTOR. Streets which carry traffic from minor streets to
arterial streets and highways, including the principal entrance streets of a
residential subdivision and streets used for circulation within the
developments.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having one end open to traffic and the
opposite end permanently terminated by a circular turn-around for vehicles.
      (5)   FRONTAGE. Streets which are adjacent and parallel to highways or
arterial streets and provide access to abutting properties.
      (6)   HIGHWAYS. Streets carrying large volumes of relatively fast moving
traffic and are designated as either interstate, federal, state, county or
municipal state aid highways.
      (7)   LOCAL. Streets which are used principally for access to abutting
properties, especially residential properties.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, travel
trailers/vehicles and other similar items.
   STUDIO. See MAKERSPACE.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person having an interest in land that is the subject of an
application for subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land for sale, development or
lease.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any structure intended for swimming or recreational bathing
that contains water over 24 inches deep. This includes in-ground, aboveground
and on-ground swimming pools; hot tubs; portable and non-portable spas; and
fixed-in-place wading pools.
   TOWER. Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the
purpose of supporting one or more antennas, (e.g., monopoles and similar
structures).
   TOWER ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. Any structure located at the base of a tower for
housing receiving or transmitting equipment.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The distance measured from the ground level at the base of the
tower or structure to the highest point on a tower or structure.
   TURF-GRASS LAWN. A lawn comprised mostly of grasses commonly used in
regularly cut lawns or play areas, including but not limited to bluegrass,
fescue, and ryegrass blends, intended to be maintained at a height of no more
than eight inches.
   UTILITY EASEMENT. The right-of-way acquired by a utility or governmental
agency to locate utilities, including all types of pipelines, telephone and
electric cables and towers.
   VARIANCE. A modification of a specific permitted development standard
required in this title, to allow an alternative development standard not stated
as acceptable in the this title, but only as applied to a particular property
for the purpose of alleviating a practical difficulty or unique circumstance,
as defined and elaborated upon in this title.
   WALKWAY. A right-of-way or easement dedicated to public use which cuts
across or into a block to facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and
properties.
   WAREHOUSE. A building used primarily for the storage of goods and materials.
   WATER RESOURCE. Any lake, creek, pond or wetland.
   WHOLESALE TRADE (WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT/RETAIL). Establishments or places
of business primarily engaged in selling merchandise to retailers; to
industrial, commercial, institutional or professional business users; to other
wholesalers; or acting as agents or brokers and buying merchandise for, or
selling merchandise to, individuals or companies.
   WINERY. A processing facility used for the fermenting and processing of
fruit juice into wine; or the refermenting of still wine into sparkling wine.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION. Any personal wireless services as defined in the
Federal Communications Act of 1996, including FCC licensed commercial wireless
telecommunications services such as cellular, personal communication services
(PCS), paging and similar services that currently exist or may be developed.
   YARD. An open space that lies between the principal structure or structures
and the nearest lot line. The minimum required yard as set forth in the
ordinance is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward; except, as may
be specifically provided in this title.
      (1)   YARD, FRONT. A space extending the full width of a lot between any
building and the front lot line and measured perpendicular to the building at
the closest point to the front lot line.
      (2)   YARD, REAR. A space extending across the full width of the lot
between the principal structure and the rear lot line and measured
perpendicular to the building to the closest point of the rear lot line.
      (3)   YARD, REQUIRED. The open space between a lot line and the yard line
within which no structure shall be located except as provided in Chapter 154.
      (4)   YARD, SIDE. A space extending from the front yard to the rear yard
between the principal structure and the side lot line and measured
perpendicular from the side lot line to the closest point of the principal
structure.
   YARD AREA. The total square footage of the property.
   YARD DEPTH. The shortest distance between a lot line and a yard line.
   ZERO LOT LINE. The location of a building on a lot in such a manner that one
or more of the building's sides rest directly on a lot line.
   ZONE. A specifically delineated area or district in a municipality within
which uniform regulations and requirements govern the use, placement, spacing
and size of land and buildings.
   ZONING. The delineation of districts and the establishment of regulations
governing the use, placement, spacing and size of land and buildings.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A part, zone or geographic area within the municipality
within which certain zoning or development regulations apply.
   ZONING MAP. The map or maps that are a part of the zoning ordinance and
delineate the boundaries of zone districts.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020; Ord. 1.2-2021, passed 2-10-2021; Ord. 6.1-2021,
passed 6-23-2021; Ord. 6.2-2021, passed 6-23-2021; Ord. 10.1-23, passed 10-11-
2023)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
151.01   Adoption of State Building Code
   
151.02   Board of Appeals; created
   
151.03   Building Official; appointed
   
151.04   Removal or restoration of unsafe or dangerous buildings
   
151.05   Permits; fees
   
151.06   Permit fee surcharge
   
151.07   Building records retrieval and copying charges
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF STATE BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The State Building Code, as adopted by the Commissioner of
Administration pursuant to M.S. § 326B.101 through § 326B.194, as may be
amended from time to time, rules and regulations established, adopted and
published from time to time by the State Commissioner of Administration,
through the Building Codes and Standards Division is hereby adopted by
reference with the exception of the optional chapters. The State Building Code
is hereby incorporated in this chapter as if fully set out herein.
   (B)   No building or structure shall hereafter be constructed, altered,
repaired or removed, except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter
or in conformity with the State Building Code.
   (C)   The application, administration and enforcement of the code shall be
in accordance with M.S. § 326B.101 through § 326B.194, as may be amended from
time to time and state rules promulgated by the Commissioner of Administration
and any amendments thereto.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 151.02 BOARD OF APPEALS; CREATED.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint a Board of Appeals which shall consist
of two members of the City Council and a third member appointed by the City
Council from the public.
   (B)   A person aggrieved by the decision of the Building Official as to the
application of the code, including any rules adopted pursuant to state statute,
may, within 30 days of the decision, appeal to the Board of Appeals.
   (C)   The Board of Appeals may affirm, reverse or modify the decision of the
Building Official. However, the Board of Appeals shall have no authority to
waive the specific requirements of the State Building Code.
   (D)   Any person aggrieved by the final decision of the Board of Appeals as
to the application of the code may appeal the decision to the Commissioner of
Administration pursuant to M.S. § 326B.139, as may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 151.03 BUILDING OFFICIAL; APPOINTED.
   (A)   The Building Official for the city shall be a certified Building
Official under the laws of the state. The Building Official shall be appointed
by the City Council annually.
   (B)   The Building Official shall be responsible for the enforcement of the
State Building Code within the city. The Building Official shall inspect all
buildings or structures during construction to see that the provisions of the
law are complied with and that construction is completed safely.
   (C)   Whenever, in the opinion of the Building Official, by reason of
defective or illegal work (work without a permit) in violation of a provision
of this chapter, the continuance of a building operation is contrary to the law
and the public welfare, he or she may order all further work to be stopped
until the condition in violation has been remedied.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 151.04 REMOVAL OR RESTORATION OF UNSAFE OR DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Any building or structure within the city limits that may be or shall,
at any time hereafter, be deemed dangerous or unsafe by the Building Official
shall, unless made safe and secure, be taken down and removed in compliance
with Minnesota Pollution Control Agency guidelines within 90 days of
determination. Upon failure to restore or remove the building or structure
within 90 days, the city will have the building or structure demolished and
assess the costs incurred to the property owner.
   (B)   A building or structure declared unsafe by the Building Official may
be restored to safe condition; provided that, if the damage or cost of
reconstruction or restoration is in excess of 50% of the assessed value of the
building or structure, the building or structure, if constructed or restored,
shall be made to conform with the requirements for new buildings hereafter
erected.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 151.05 PERMITS; FEES.
   (A)   No building or structure shall be erected, altered or moved until a
building permit has been obtained from the Building Official stating that the
building or structure, according to the plans for its erection or alteration,
complies with this subchapter and other building laws or ordinances and health
laws or ordinances which are new or may hereafter be in force. The failure to
obtain a building permit as required by this section prior to the commencement
of work shall result in a building permit fee and penalty which shall be set by
ordinance.
   (B)   Application for a building permit shall be made to the City
Administrator on forms to be furnished by the City Administrator. Each
application for a permit to construct or alter a building or structure shall be
accompanied by proper information as required for permit issuance.
      (1)   The Building Official shall issue a building permit only after the
application, together with the building plans, has been approved.
      (2)   A permit shall expire if the building or work authorized by the
permit is not commenced within six months from the date of the permit.
   (C)   The Building Official may extend the time for action by the permittee
for a period not exceeding 180 days, upon written request by the permittee
holding an unexpired permit showing a good and satisfactory reason.
      (1)   No permit shall be extended more than once. All building permits
issued are nontransferable.
      (2)   The fee for a building permit and the fee for an extension of a
building permit may be set from time to time by ordinance, refer to the City
Fee Schedule.
   (D)   No building shall be demolished in the city until a demolition permit
has been obtained from the City Administrator, stating that the building may be
demolished.
      (1)   The demolition process, including the grading of the lot, shall be
completed within 30 days of the date of issuance of the demolition permit.
      (2)   Any vacant or unoccupied building shall be secured so that the same
is not open to trespass during the demolition process.
         (a)   If a vacant or unoccupied building is deemed hazardous, due to
the fact that the building is open to trespass and has not been secured, the
City Council may order the building secured and shall cause notice to the owner
of the premises, or his or her agent, by delivering a copy to him or her or by
mailing it to him or her at his or her last known address. Service by mail is
complete upon mailing.
         (b)   If the owner or agent of the building fails to comply with the
order within ten days after the order is served upon him or her, the governing
body shall cause the building to be properly secured, and the cost thereof may
be charged against the real estate pursuant to M.S. § 463.21 et seq., as may be
amended from time to time.
         (c)   The fee for a demolition permit shall be set by ordinance.
      (3)   A cash deposit will be required prior to the issuance of a
demolition permit.
         (a)   The deposit will be refunded to the permittee when the work has
been completed to the satisfaction of the City Building Official.
         (b)   The required cash deposit, based on the square foot size of the
building to be demolished, shall be set by ordinance.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 151.06 PERMIT FEE SURCHARGE.
   In addition to the permit fees mentioned above, a surcharge shall be
collected on all permits issued for work governed by the State Building Code
and the surcharge shall be remitted to the state in accordance with M.S. §
326B.106, as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 151.07 BUILDING RECORDS RETRIEVAL AND COPYING CHARGES.
   (A)   A fee in an amount to be determined by the City Council shall be
charged to persons requesting building records to defray the cost of retrieval
and copying of same.
   (B)   The fee for the retrieval and copying of the building records shall be
payable to the City Administrator.
   (C)   The fee for the retrieval and copying of building records may be
revised from time to time and set by ordinance.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter and the State Building Code and rules
adopted pursuant thereto shall be a misdemeanor and the maximum misdemeanor
penalties shall apply.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
CHAPTER 152: MANUFACTURED HOMES
Section
   
152.01   Permit required
   
152.02   Application; fee
   
152.03   Inspection generally
   
152.04   Permit required for installation of accessory structure; application;
fee; inspection
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No manufactured homes shall be installed until an approved manufactured home
installation permit has been obtained from the City Building Official.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 152.02 APPLICATION; FEE.
   Application for a manufactured home installation permit shall be made on
forms to be furnished by the City Administrator. The fee for a manufactured
home installation permit shall be at a rate set annually by ordinance.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 152.03 INSPECTION GENERALLY.
   (A)   Following installation of the manufactured home, the City Building
Official shall inspect the manufactured home installation to determine whether
or not it is in violation of any provisions of the state statutes or
administrative rules.
   (B)   There shall be no occupancy of a manufactured home until physical
inspection of the manufactured home has been completed and approval of the
installation has been given, but occupancy shall not preclude the physical
inspection of the manufactured home installation, including utilities.
   (C)   In the event that the inspection reveals that a manufactured home
installation or a manufactured home accessory structure installation is in
violation of any provisions of state statutes or administrative rules, the City
Building Official shall serve on the owner or dealer/installer a notice of
violations setting forth in what respect the state statutes or administrative
rules have been violated. Violations shall be corrected as specified in the
notice.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 152.04 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR INSTALLATION OF ACCESSORY STRUCTURE; APPLICATION;
FEE; INSPECTION.
   (A)   Permits for the installation of manufactured home accessory structures
shall be obtained by the owner of the manufactured home or the owner's agent
prior to placement.
   (B)   The application and fee for the permit shall be as specified in §
152.01. The City Building Official shall inspect a manufactured home accessory
structure installation to determine whether or not the installation is in
violation of any provisions of the state statutes or administrative rules.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punishable as defined by
law. Each day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Purpose
   
153.002   Authority
   
153.003   Administration
   
153.004   Amendments
Common Procedures and Requirements
   
153.015   Authority to file applications
   
153.016   Pre-application meeting
   
153.017   Fees
   
153.018   Withdrawal of any applications
   
153.019   Timelines for review
   
153.020   Public hearing
Subdivision Approval Required
   
153.030   Applicability
   
153.031   Exemptions
   
153.032   Development agreement required
   
153.033   Financial guarantees
   
153.034   Approval and acceptance of basic improvements
   
153.035   Warranty/maintenance guarantee
   
153.036   Insurance
Minor Subdivisions
   
153.050   Applicability
   
153.051   Pre-application meeting
   
153.052   Submittal
   
153.053   Review process
   
153.054   Issuance of decision
Concept Plan
   
153.065   Applicability
   
153.066   Submittal
   
153.067   Review process
Preliminary Plat
   
153.080   Applicability
   
153.081   Pre-application meeting
   
153.082   Submittal
   
153.083   Review process
   
153.084   Issuance of decision
   
153.085   Preliminary plat amendment
Final Plat
   
153.095   Applicability
   
153.096   Submittal
   
153.097   Review process
   
153.098   Issuance of decision
Variances
   
153.110   Applicability
   
153.111   Pre-application meeting
   
153.112   Submittal
   
153.113   Review process
   
153.114   Issuance of decision
Design Standards
   
153.125   Applicability
   
153.126   General standards
   
153.127   Land requirements
   
153.128   Wetland and floodplain areas
   
153.129   Construction setback requirements from pipelines
Blocks and Lots
   
153.140   Blocks
   
153.141   Lots
Easements and Utilities
   
153.155   Easements
   
153.156   Utilities
   
153.157   Water supply
   
153.158   Sanitary sewer
Street Design
   
153.170   General design
   
153.171   Streets by type
   
153.172   Other design elements
Stormwater, Surface Water, Drainage, Water Quality and Erosion Control
   
153.185   Generally
   
153.186   Stormwater
   
153.187   Soil erosion and sedimentation control
   
153.188   Exposed slopes
   
153.189   Preservation of natural drainageways
Land Dedication
   
153.200   Purpose
   
153.201   Scope
   
153.202   Minimum amount of dedication
   
153.203   Marketability of title
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Any person platting, re-platting or dividing property for purposes of
transfer of title or separate description shall do so under the provisions of
this chapter. This chapter sets forth the minimum requirements deemed necessary
to ensure and protect the health, safety and welfare of the public. More
specifically, the provisions of this chapter are designed to:
      (1)   Assure that, to the maximum extent possible, all lands will be
developed for the best possible use with adequate protection against
deterioration and obsolescence;
      (2)   Assure that effective protection is given to the natural resources
of the community, especially ground water and surface waters;
      (3)   Encourage well-planned subdivisions through the establishment of
adequate design standards;
      (4)   Discourage inferior developments that might adversely affect the
local tax base;
      (5)   Create neighborhoods which will be of lasting credit to the
community;
      (6)   Facilitate adequate provisions for transportation and other public
facilities;
      (7)   Secure and protect the rights of the public with respect to public
lands, waters and the development of recreational facilities;
      (8)   Improve land records by the establishment of standards for surveys
and plats;
      (9)   Safeguard the interests of the public, the homeowner, the
subdivider and units of local government;
      (10)   Provide a common ground for understanding between developers and
local units of government;
      (11)   Prevent, where possible, excessive governmental operating and
maintenance costs; and
      (12)   Preserve agricultural and other open lands.
   (B)   Efforts shall be made to conserve natural resources and advantageously
utilize all natural features and vegetation on the property to minimize soil
erosion. Consideration will be given to eliminate any form of underground or
surface water pollution.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.002 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to M.S. § 462.358, as may be amended from
time to time. When allowed, any provisions of this chapter that impose
restrictions which are more restrictive than those imposed by provisions of
Minnesota State Statute or ordinances, the provisions of this chapter shall
govern.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.003 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the City
Council in cooperation with the Planning and Zoning Commission and Zoning
Administrator, or authorized representative of Zoning Administrator, who shall
be appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission and Zoning Administrator shall
provide assistance to the City Council in the administration of this chapter
and their recommendations shall be advisory in nature. Specifically, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall review all subdivision applications, hold
public hearings and make recommendations to the Council.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.004 AMENDMENTS.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may, of its own motion or upon petition,
cause to be prepared amendments supplementing or changing the regulations
herein established. All proposed amendments, together with the recommendation
of the Planning and Zoning Commission, shall be submitted to the City Council
for adoption.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
COMMON PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.015 AUTHORITY TO FILE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Subdivision applications for an individual property may be initiated
by:
      (1)   The owner of the property that is the subject of the application;
or
      (2)   An agent authorized by the owner of the property that is the
subject of the application, which may include a lessee of the property.
Evidence of such authorization shall be the signature of the property owner on
the application.
   (B)   If the property subject to an application is under more than one
ownership, all owners or their authorized agents shall join in filing the
application.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.016 PRE-APPLICATION MEETING.
   (A)   Pre-application meetings may be mandatory or voluntary based on the
application type.
   (B)   A pre-application meeting is an informal discussion between a
potential applicant and city staff regarding a possible project subject to this
Title. The Zoning Administrator shall determine which city staff shall attend
the pre-application meeting.
   (C)   The purpose of the pre-application meeting is to assist the applicant
in identifying the type of approvals needed, the potential review criteria and
the information to be contained in the application(s).
   (D)   Discussions that occur during pre-application meetings are not binding
on the city and do not constitute official assurances or representations on the
city.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.017 FEES.
   (A)   A cash filing fee payable to the city shall be paid following receipt
of the application. This fee shall be in the amount which has been set by
ordinance and will be used for public expense and/or development fees in
connection with the consideration of the subdivision application by the
Planning and Zoning Commission and Council.
   (B)   Applications will not be processed or considered complete until the
filing fee is paid to the city.
   (C)   All other applicable fees that may be set by the Council shall also
accompany the application.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.018 WITHDRAWAL OF ANY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Any request for withdrawal of an application shall be submitted in
writing to the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   In all cases where the applicant has requested withdrawal of an
application, the associated fee paid and any costs incurred by the city in the
processing of an application shall not be refunded.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.019 TIMELINES FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   Action on preliminary subdivision requests.
      (1)   In compliance with M.S. § 462.358, as may be amended from time to
time, the city shall take action to approve or deny applications for
preliminary subdivisions within 120 days of receiving a completed application.
      (2)   If the city cannot take action to approve or deny the application
within 120 days of receiving the completed application, an extension request
may be approved by the applicant in writing.
   (B)   Action on final subdivision request. In compliance with M.S. §
462.358, as may be amended from time to time, once the city has preliminarily
approved a subdivision request, the applicant shall submit an application for
final subdivision approval; the city shall take action to approve or deny
applications for final plats within 60 days of receiving a completed
application.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.020 PUBLIC HEARING.
   For all subdivision procedures which require a public hearing, the
procedures established in §
154.065(J) shall apply.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
SUBDIVISION APPROVAL REQUIRED
§ 153.030 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Applications for subdivisions shall be classified as one of the
following types:
      (1)   Minor subdivision where a lot division or consolidation results in
three or less parcels under certain conditions, as established in §
153.050.
      (2)   Major subdivisions, where:
         (a)   A lot division creates three or more parcels, lots, or tracts or
where the division necessitates the creation of streets, roads, or alleys for
residential, commercial, industrial or other use or any combination thereof; or
         (b)   Any change in the lot line(s) or the establishment of the lot
line(s) of a parcel, lot or tract not previously platted.
   (B)   Prohibition related to building permits.
      (1)   No lot, parcel, or tract created after the effective date of this
chapter shall be issued a building permit unless the lot, parcel or tract has
been created in compliance with the subdivision regulations of the city.
      (2)   Outlots are deemed unbuildable and no building permit shall be
issued for such properties, except in the case of public park facilities and
essential services.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.031 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Subdivision approval is not required for those separations where all
the resulting parcels, tracts, lots or interests will be:
      (1)   Twenty acres or larger in size and 500 feet in width for
residential uses; or
      (2)   Five acres or larger in size for commercial and industrial uses.
   (B)   Subdivision approval is not required for separations creating cemetery
lots.
   (C)   Subdivision approval is not required for separations resulting from
court orders or the adjustment of a lot line by the relocation of a common
boundary.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.032 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to ensure that a subdivider
follows the conditions of approval and properly installs the basic improvements
required in a plat. Whenever a subdivision includes any public improvements or
whenever a major subdivision includes other conditions of approval, the
subdivider shall enter into a development agreement with the city, setting
forth the conditions under which the subdivision is approved.
   (B)   Required improvements.
      (1)   Basic improvements. As required by the approval, and any conditions
therein, all of the following required improvements to be installed under the
provisions of this section shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the design standards of this chapter and approved by and subject to the
inspection of the City Engineer prior to approval:
         (a)   Streets;
         (b)   Sanitary sewer;
         (c)   Watermain;
         (d)   Surface water facilities (pipes, ponds, rain gardens and similar
improvements);
         (e)   Grading and erosion control;
         (f)   Sidewalks/trails;
         (g)   Street lighting;
         (h)   Street signs and traffic control signs;
         (i)   Wetland mitigation; and
         (j)   Monuments required by Minnesota State Statutes.
      (2)   Other improvements. The subdivider shall arrange for the
installation of private utilities including, but not limited to,
telecommunications cabling, electrical and natural gas service following the
backfilling of the curb and gutter.
   (C)   Installation of basic improvements.
      (1)   The subdivider shall arrange for the installation of all required
improvements in the development subject to the development agreement.
         (a)   All of the city's expenses incurred as the result of the
required improvements shall be paid to the city by the subdivider including but
not limited to legal, planning, engineering and inspection expenses incurred in
connection with approval and acceptance of the plat, the preparation of the
development agreement, review of construction plans and documents, and all
costs and expenses incurred by the city in monitoring and inspecting
fulfillment of the development agreement.
         (b)   The subdivider shall reimburse the city for costs incurred in
the enforcement of the development agreement, including engineering and
attorneys' fees.
      (2)   The City Council reserves the right to, in its sole discretion,
elect to install all or any part of the basic improvements required under the
provisions of this section and assess the costs to the benefitting property
owners pursuant to M.S. Ch. 429, as may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Unless separate written approval has been given by the city as
provided for in §
153.098(C)(2), within the plat or land to be platted, the subdivider may not
grade or otherwise disturb the earth, remove trees, construct sewer lines,
water lines, streets, utilities, public or private improvements or any
buildings within the plat or land to be platted until all the following
conditions have been satisfied:
         (a)   The development agreement has been fully executed by both
parties and filed with the City Clerk;
         (b)   The necessary security has been received by the city;
         (c)   The plat has been filed with the county recorder's office;
         (d)   The construction plans have been approved and signed by the City
Engineer; and
         (e)   The city has issued a letter that all conditions have been
satisfied and that the subdivider may proceed.
      (4)   The improvements shall be installed in accordance with this
chapter, city standard specifications for utilities and street construction and
the city's engineering standard specifications.
         (a)   The subdivider shall submit plans and specifications that have
been prepared by a registered professional engineer to the city for approval by
the City Engineer.
         (b)   The city shall, at the subdivider's expense, provide all on-site
inspection and soil testing to certify that the construction work meets the
city's standards and approved plans.
      (5)   All labor and work shall be done and performed in the best and most
workmanlike manner and in strict conformance with the approved plans and
specifications.
         (a)   No deviations from the approved plans and specifications will be
permitted unless approved in writing by the City Engineer.
         (b)   The subdivider shall not do any work or furnish any materials
not covered by the plans and specifications and special conditions of the
development agreement, for which reimbursement is expected from the city,
unless such work is first ordered in writing by the City Engineer as provided
in the specifications.
   (D)   Time of performance.
      (1)   The subdivider shall complete all required basic improvements no
later than one year following the commencement of work on the improvements,
except:
         (a)   Where weather precludes completion;
         (b)   For street lighting; and
         (c)   For the wearing course of streets.
      (2)   Where weather precludes completion, the timeline for completion of
the improvements may be extended an additional six months upon approval in
writing of the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   The subdivider shall complete street lighting within two years
following the initial commencement of work on the required basic improvements.
      (4)   Neither curb and gutter nor bituminous pavement shall be installed
between November 15 and April 15. The final wear course on streets shall be
installed between May 15 and October 1 the first summer after the base layer of
asphalt has been in place one freeze thaw cycle. Any deficiencies in the base
asphalt, curb or other improvements must be repaired by the subdivider at its
own cost prior to final paving. The subdivider may, however, request an
extension of time from the City Engineer. If an extension is granted, it shall
be conditioned upon updating the security posted by the subdivider to reflect
cost increases and the extended completion date. Final wear course placement
outside of this time frame must have the written approval of the City Engineer.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.033 FINANCIAL GUARANTEES.
   (A)   Subsequent to execution of the development agreement, but prior to
approval of a signed final plat for recording, the subdivider shall provide the
city with a financial guarantee in the form of a letter of credit from a bank,
cash escrow or other form of security acceptable to the city. A letter of
credit or cash escrow shall be in an amount as determined by the City Engineer.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to ensure that a
submitted financial guarantee shall continue in full force and effect until the
City Engineer has approved and the City Council has accepted all of the
required improvements. The City Engineer thereby is authorized to release the
guarantee or reduce the amount of the guarantee as provided in §
153.034, Approval and Acceptance of Basic Improvements.
   (C)   When any instrument submitted as a financial guarantee contains
provision for an expiration date, after which the instrument may not be drawn
upon, notwithstanding the status of the development agreement or of the
required improvements, the expiration date shall be December 31 or the closest
business day in the case of weekends and legal holidays.
      (1)   Further, the financial guarantee shall be deemed automatically
extended without change for six months from the expiration date unless 60 days
prior to the expiration date the financial institution notifies the city in
writing by certified mail that it does not elect to renew the financial
guarantee for an additional period.
      (2)   If the instrument is not to be renewed and has not been released by
the City Engineer, another acceptable financial guarantee in the appropriate
amount shall be submitted at least 60 days prior to the expiration.
      (3)   The term of any extension shall be approved by the City Engineer
and subject to the requirements of this section.
      (4)   Upon receipt of an acceptable substitute financial guarantee, the
City Engineer may release the original guarantee.
   (D)   Forms of financial guarantees.
      (1)   Letter of credit. If the subdivider posts a letter of credit as a
guarantee, the credit shall:
         (a)   Be irrevocable;
         (b)   Be from a bank approved by the city;
         (c)   Be in a form approved by the city;
         (d)   Be for a term sufficient to cover the completion, maintenance
and warranty periods identified in this section; and
         (e)   Require only that the city present the credit with a sight draft
and an affidavit signed by the City Administrator or the City Administrator's
designee attesting to the city's right to draw funds under the credit.
      (2)   Cash escrow. If the subdivider posts a cash escrow as a guarantee,
the escrow instructions approved by the city shall provide that:
         (a)   The subdivider will have no right to a return of any of the
funds except as provided in §
153.034, Approval and Acceptance of Basic Improvements; and
         (b)   The escrow agent shall have a legal duty to deliver the funds to
the city whenever the City Administrator presents an affidavit to the agent
attesting to the city's right to receive funds whether or not the subdivider
protests that right.
      (3)   Cash. A cash deposit made with the city finance department may be
used as part of the required financial guarantee in those instances where the
subdivider elects to have the city install some or all of the public
improvements.
   (E)   Amounts of financial guarantees. The subdivider shall submit either a
financial guarantee in one of the forms listed in division (D), for an amount
determined by the City Engineer in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Subdivider installed improvements. For basic improvements to be
installed by the subdivider, the required financial guarantee shall include all
of the following fixed or estimated costs:
         (a)   Costs of the basic improvements identified in division (B)(1);
         (b)   Engineering, to include subdivider's design, construction
management, surveying, inspection and drafting;
         (c)   Twenty-five percent contingency or add-on to the costs in
divisions (E)(1)(a) and (E)(1)(b) above; and
         (d)   Estimated cost of energy for street lights for the first two
years of operation.
      (2)   City installed improvements. For basic improvements to be installed
by the city, the required financial guarantee shall be the sum of the following
fixed or estimated costs:
         (a)   A cash deposit in an amount equal to 25% of the estimated cost
of installing the specified public improvements as determined by the City
Engineer, which costs would include charges incurred by the city for legal,
planning, engineering and administration associated with the installation
project(s). The deposit shall be applied to the costs of such installations,
with the remainder of the costs specially assessed, in the manner provided by
Minnesota State Statutes, over a period of five years together with interest
thereon.
         (b)   In lieu of the cash deposit, the subdivider may elect to have
the city provide 100% of the cost of such installations, which costs shall be
assessed over a period of five years. In such event, the subdivider shall post
a letter of credit for 60% of the cost of assessments, which letter of credit
shall be released after the subdivider pays the principal and interest on said
assessments for two years and which letter of credit shall be separate from any
other letters of credit associated with the subdivider's project.
   (F)   Other cash requirements. The subdivider will be responsible for
additional cash requirements which must be furnished to the city at the time of
final plat approval. The subdivider shall not proceed with any improvements
until these cash requirements have been paid to the city. The cash requirements
may include:
      (1)   Park dedication fees (See §
153.200 through §
153.203);
      (2)   Utility charges and fees. This may include sewer availability
charges (SAC), water availability charges (WAC) and trunk fees;
      (3)   Special assessments including interest;
      (4)   The city's legal, engineering administration and construction
observation fees;
      (5)   Costs associated with traffic control and street signs to be
installed in the plat by the city;
      (6)   Map upgrade fee; and
      (7)   Other charges or fees as determined by the city.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.034 APPROVAL AND ACCEPTANCE OF BASIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The financial guarantee shall be held by the city until:
      (1)   The subdivider vouches, by certified letter to the city, that the
conditions required by the city for approval under this chapter have been
satisfied; and
      (2)   The City Engineer determines that the conditions required for
approval have been met.
   (B)   No financial guarantee shall be released in full until the following
has occurred:
      (1)   All improvements have been completed and public improvements have
been accepted by the City Engineer;
      (2)   Iron monuments for lot corners have been installed;
      (3)   All financial obligations to the city have been satisfied;
      (4)   Reproducible record plans of all public improvements as required by
the City Engineer have been furnished to the city by the subdivider. Such
record plans shall be certified to be true and accurate by the registered
engineer responsible for the installation of the improvements;
      (5)   A warranty/maintenance guarantee has been provided as described in
§
153.035, Warranty/Maintenance Guarantee; and
      (6)   A title insurance policy approved by the City Attorney indicating
that the improvements are free and clear of any and all liens and encumbrances.
   (C)   (1)   If the City Engineer finds that all conditions of this chapter
and the development agreement have been satisfied, the city shall release and
return to the applicant any and all financial securities tied to the
requirements within 30 days.
      (2)   If the city fails to release and return the letters of credit
within the 30-day period, any interest accrued will be paid to the applicant,
pursuant to M.S. § 462.358, as may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   (1)   If the City Engineer determines that the conditions required for
approval have not been satisfied, the city shall send written notice within
seven business days upon receipt of the certified letter indicating to the
applicant which specific conditions have not been met.
      (2)   The city shall require a maintenance or performance bond from any
subcontractor that has not yet completed all remaining requirements.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.035 WARRANTY/MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit either a warranty/maintenance bond or a
letter of credit for an amount determined by the City Engineer.
   (B)   The required warranty period for materials and workmanship from the
utility contractor installing public sewer and water mains shall be two years
from the date of final written city acceptance of the work.
   (C)   The required warranty period for all work relating to street
construction, including concrete curb and gutter, sidewalks and trails,
materials and equipment shall be subject to one year from the date of final
written acceptance, unless the wearing course is placed during the same
construction season as the bituminous base course. In those instances, the
subdivider shall guarantee all work, including street construction, concrete
curb and gutter, sidewalks and trails, material and equipment for a period of
two years from the date of final written city acceptance of the work.
   (D)   The required warranty period for trees and landscaping is one growing
season following installation.
   (E)   The required warranty period for erosion control will be as
established in the development agreement.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.036 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The subdivider shall take out and maintain or cause to be taken out
and maintained until six months after the city has accepted the public
improvements, public liability and property damage insurance covering personal
injury, including death and claims for property damage which may arise out of
subdivider's work or the work of its subcontractors or by one directly or
indirectly employed by any of them.
   (B)   Limits for the coverage shall be in accordance to the city's current
requirements.
   (C)   The city shall be named as an additional insured on the policy and the
subdivider shall file with the city a certificate evidencing coverage prior to
the city signing the plat.
   (D)   The certificate shall provide that the city must be given ten days'
advance written notice of the cancellation of the insurance.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
§ 153.050 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This section is intended to provide for an expedited procedure for the
subdivision of land by use of a certificate of survey when it is proposed to
subdivide land that is already in a recorded subdivision plat.
   (B)   Land to be subdivided as a minor subdivision shall be a lot (or lots)
of record in a recorded subdivision plat. The subdivision of land that is not
part of a recorded plat requires the land to be platted through a major
subdivision process.
   (C)   The maximum number of parcels or building sites to be created from one
platted lot shall not exceed three; and the maximum number of parcels or
building sites to be created from two platted lots shall not exceed three.
   (D)   No subdivision of land shall result in the creation of a substandard
(non-buildable) lot, according to the current zoning classification, with the
exception of existing outlots.
   (E)   Any affected lot or outlot shall not be allowed to be subdivided by
use of a certificate of survey more than one time.
   (F)   The need for general utility easements or drainage easements or
improvements shall be resolved prior to the approval of the subdivision. This
may include the vacation of existing easements and establishment of new
easements for utility and drainage.
   (G)   The dedication of land to the public for a street or street right-of-
way shall not be allowed by use of a certificate of survey.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.051 PRE-APPLICATION MEETING.
   A pre-application meeting pursuant to §
153.015 is suggested prior to submitting a minor subdivision application.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.052 SUBMITTAL.
   (A)   The applicant shall file the completed application, including required
exhibits, with the Zoning Administrator and shall pay a filing fee, as
established by the Council, for processing the minor subdivision.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application and within 15
business days after receiving the application shall notify the applicant in
writing if the application is not complete and what additional information is
required.
   (C)   Criteria for complete submittal. No submittal to the city shall be
considered complete without receipt of three paper copies and one electronic
copy of the following:
      (1)   A completed application form;
      (2)   Evidence of ownership or enforceable option on the property;
      (3)   A certificate of survey of the existing property with an accurate
boundary description of the property;
      (4)   A certificate of survey of the proposed property with an accurate
boundary description of the new lot(s);
         (a)   The certificate of survey for filing or recording shall be drawn
at current acceptable engineering design standards with a scale; and
         (b)   The certificate of survey shall measure no less than eight and
one-half inches by 11 inches. The certificate of survey shall be drawn to a
scale not greater than 100 feet to the inch unless another suitable scale is
approved by the City Engineer. (Example: one inch equals 200 feet would be
unacceptable).
      (5)   Site plan of the property showing:
         (a)   Locations and dimensions of existing features, such as
structures, impervious surfaces, trees, fences/retaining walls, waterbodies and
wetlands; all such elements shall also include an indication if they are
proposed to remain or be demolished; and
         (b)   Proposed subdivision of the property, with dimensions of the new
lots showing lot area, lot width and setbacks.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.053 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Application distributed. When the Zoning Administrator determines the
application to be complete, the Zoning Administrator shall distribute the
application and exhibits to any applicable city staff, officials and other
government agencies for review and comment.
      (1)   When the Zoning Administrator determines the application to be
complete, the item shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission;
after review, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall make a recommendation to
the City Council to approve, approve with conditions or not approve the
subdivision activities.
      (2)   The City Council shall, within 90 days of the Planning and Zoning
Commission recommendation, approve, approve with conditions or not approve the
subdivision activities.
   (C)   Criteria for review.
      (1)   In making the determination, whether or not the minor subdivision
is to be allowed, the City Council shall make the following findings:
         (a)   The proposed subdivision is not in conflict with the
comprehensive plan of the city;
         (b)   The proposed subdivision will not disrupt the character of the
neighborhood; and
         (c)   The proposed subdivision does not result in the creation of a
substandard (non-buildable) lot, according to the current zoning
classification.
      (2)   Assessments shall be paid in full prior to the approval of the
subdivision.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.054 ISSUANCE OF DECISION.
   (A)   Recording. 
      (1)   The subdivider shall file and record the certificate of survey with
attached legal descriptions within 30 days from the date of approval by the
City Council. One copy shall be filed with the City Clerk and one copy shall be
recorded with the County Recorder. All fees for filing or recording shall be
paid by the subdivider.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall file the certificate of survey and attached
legal descriptions with the original subdivision plat map in the City
Administrator's record.
   (B)   Effect of approval. No building permits shall be issued prior to
filing and recording the certificate of survey, and legal descriptions, with
the required city and county officials.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
CONCEPT PLAN
§ 153.065 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The concept plan and any accompanying information shall serve as a
basis for discussion between the subdivider and the city and is intended to
provide the subdivider with an advisory review.
   (B)   The concept plan process is not mandatory. This process may be
initiated at any time by an applicant who wishes to gain information and
guidance from the Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council regarding a
specific development concept before entering into binding agreements, incurring
substantial expense or filing a preliminary plat application.
   (C)   For more complex proposals, it is suggested that the applicant
participate in a concept plan review process before proceeding to a preliminary
plat application.
   (D)   This process is intended to inform the applicant of the purpose and
objectives of these regulations, the comprehensive plan and duly adopted plan
implementation devices of the city.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.066 SUBMITTAL.
   (A)   The applicant shall file the completed application form together with
required exhibits with the Zoning Administrator and shall pay a filing fee, as
established by the Council, for processing the concept plan.
   (B)   Criteria for complete submittal. No submittal to the city shall be
considered complete without receipt of three paper copies and one electronic
copy of the following:
      (1)   A completed application form;
      (2)   A concept plan, drawn to scale, including the following:
      (3)   Scale and north point;
      (4)   Boundaries of entire parcel of land;
      (5)   Proposed subdivision name;
      (6)   Name and address of property owner;
      (7)   Name and address of subdivider;
      (8)   Zoning classification of proposal and adjacent lands;
      (9)   Names of existing streets;
      (10)   General street design and general design of other surface
improvements such as sidewalks and trails;
      (11)   General lot layout, including number of proposed lots and
dimensions of those lots (lot area, lot width);
      (12)   Information of adjacent lands;
         (a)   Parcel boundaries;
         (b)   Parcel ID numbers; and
         (c)   Property owner.
      (13)   Areas of open space or park dedication;
      (14)   Areas for stormwater retention; and
      (15)   Existing natural features including wetlands, water bodies,
significant tree stands, steep slopes and floodplain areas.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.067 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application and concept plan
and refer them to city staff for review.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the concept plan and
provide feedback to the applicant.
   (C)   The City Council shall review the concept plan and provide feedback to
the applicant.
   (D)   Discussions that occur are not binding on the city and do not
constitute official assurances or representations of the city.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
PRELIMINARY PLAT
§ 153.080 APPLICABILITY.
   A preliminary plat application shall be submitted to the city when any of
the following apply:
   (A)   The applicant is proposing to create four or more lots as part of a
subdivision;
   (B)   The applicant is proposing to change the exterior boundaries of an
existing plat;
   (C)   Successive divisions within a five year period creating five or more
parcels or building sites (i.e. lots or outlots) of one to one and one-half
acres each or less; or
   (D)   The proposed subdivision does not qualify to be processed as a minor
subdivision.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.081 PRE-APPLICATION MEETING.
   If an applicant has not completed a concept plan process as specified in §
153.065 through §
153.067, a pre-application meeting pursuant to §
153.016 is required prior to submitting a preliminary plat application.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.082 SUBMITTAL.
   (A)   The applicant shall file the completed application form together with
required exhibits with the Zoning Administrator and shall pay a filing fee, as
established by the Council, for processing the major subdivision.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application and within 15
business days after receiving the application shall notify the applicant in
writing if the application is not complete and what additional information is
required.
   (C)   Criteria for complete submittal. No submittal to the city shall be
considered complete without receipt of three paper copies and one electronic
copy of the following:
      (1)   Certificate of survey for the site showing the following:
         (a)   Property boundary for entirety of parcel(s) to be subdivided and
legal description of current property;
         (b)   Wetland delineation;
         (c)   Existing topography at two-foot contours; and
         (d)   Location of floodplain and regulatory flood elevation.
      (2)   Preliminary plat conforming substantially to the format referenced
in M.S. § 505.021, as may be amended from time to time and specifically
including:
         (a)   Date, scale, north point;
         (b)   Property boundary for entirety of parcel to be subdivided;
         (c)   Proposed subdivision name and all intended street names
according to the municipality's street naming and numbering system;
         (d)   Name and address of the subdivider, surveyor and engineer
preparing plat;
         (e)   Location and names of adjacent subdivisions and the owners of
adjoining parcels of unsubdivided land;
         (f)   Zoning classification of lands to be subdivided and all adjacent
lands and proposed zoning, if different than existing zoning;
         (g)   Topographic map of the area showing two-foot contour intervals.
All areas of the subdivision to be platted with a slope greater than 25% must
be clearly indicated;
         (h)   Location, widths and names of all existing, platted or dedicated
elements of the following:
            1.   Streets, including cul-de-sac names (i.e., place or circle);
            2.   Easements, railroad and utility rights-of-way;
            3.   Sidewalks;
            4.   Parks;
            5.   Watercourses and drainage ditches; and
            6.   Front, side, and rear yard dimensions for all permanent
buildings and structures;
         (i)   Location, size and depth of all existing and/or proposed
sanitary sewer, storm sewers, water mains, hydrants and catch basins. Location
and proposed design of stormwater retention areas when required;
         (j)   Other data within 300 feet of the exterior boundaries of the
area being subdivided as may be required by the Planning and Zoning Commission;
         (k)   Identification and location of existing or potential wetlands.
Water elevations of adjoining lakes, rivers and streams at date of survey and
their approximate high and low water elevations. All elevations shall refer to
the established United States Coast and Geodetic Survey and/or United States
Geodetic Survey Datum;
         (l)   When the subdivision borders a lake, river or stream the contour
line above the indicated flood fringe boundary of the lake, river or stream
shall be shown on the plat;
         (m)   The layout and width of all new streets, sidewalks, rights-of-
way and easements and the approximate angles of street intersections;
         (n)   Length and bearings of the exterior boundaries of the land being
subdivided;
         (o)   Dimensions of all lots to the nearest foot;
         (p)   Square footage of all lots;
         (q)   All lots shall be numbered by beginning the numbering with
number one and numbering each lot progressively, through the block in which
they are situated. All blocks shall be numbered progressively, by beginning the
numbering with the number one and numbering each block progressively through
each plat. Consecutive lot or block numbering shall not be continued from one
plat into another and one lot plats should have both a lot and block number;
         (r)   Approximate radii of all curves and lengths of all tangents; and
         (s)   Approximate location and area of all property to be dedicated
for public use or reserved by deed covenant for use by all property owners in
the development with a statement of the conditions of the dedication or
reservation.
      (3)    The preliminary plat shall be drawn to currently acceptable
engineering design standards with a scale not greater than one inch equals 100
feet unless another suitable scale is approved by the City Engineer. (Example:
One inch equals 200 feet would be unacceptable.)
      (4)   Preliminary civil plans showing the following:
         (a)   Grading and drainage plans:
            1.   Grading plan;
            2.   Erosion control plan;
            3.   Seeding plan; and
            4.   Grading details.
         (b)   Street and utility plans:
            1.   Sanitary and watermain plan;
            2.   Storm sewer schedule;
            3.   Storm sewer construction plan;
            4.   Draintile plan (if applicable);
            5.   Street construction plan;
            6.   Lighting and signage plan; and
            7.   Street and utility details.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.083 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Application distributed. When the Zoning Administrator determines the
application to be complete, the Zoning Administrator shall distribute the
application and exhibits to any applicable city staff, officials and other
government agencies for review and comment.
   (B)   Hearing on the application.
      (1)   When the Zoning Administrator determines the application to be
complete, the Zoning Administrator shall set the date for a public hearing and
shall give all required notice in compliance with §
153.020.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold the public hearing
and may table the application for further investigation if necessary.
   (C)   Review and decision.
      (1)   Upon the conclusion of the public hearing, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall recommend to the City Council either preliminary approval of
the subdivision, preliminary approval of the subdivision subject to conditions
or denial of the subdivision.
         (a)   If the Planning and Zoning Commission recommends denial, it
shall express its recommendation for disapproval and its reasons therefor.
         (b)   Any plan given a conditional recommendation for approval shall
be revised to meet the requirements of the conditions and three paper and
electronically transmitted copies shall be resubmitted to the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   Upon receiving a recommendation from the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the City Council shall review and approve, approve conditionally or
deny the preliminary plat application.
         (a)   The City Council may table the review or remand the issue back
to the Planning and Zoning Commission if they deem necessary.
         (b)   The City Council shall state, in writing, its findings for
approval or denial, as well as any conditions of approval.
   (D)   Criteria for review. In making their determination, the Planning and
Zoning Commission and City Council shall consider the following:
      (1)   Consistency with the design standards and other requirements of
this chapter;
      (2)   Consistency with the city's comprehensive plan or other adopted
plans applicable to the area;
      (3)   Consistency with
Chapter 154 of the City Code;
      (4)   The physical characteristics of the site, including but not limited
to topography, erosion and flooding potential, development or use contemplated;
and
      (5)   The proposed development's potential for a negative fiscal or
environmental impact upon the city.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.084 ISSUANCE OF DECISION.
   (A)   Notification. Following the decision by the City Council, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the applicant of the Council's action and reasons
thereof.
   (B)   Recording. The city shall maintain a record of all approved
preliminary plat applications including a copy of the application, materials,
review dates and such other information as may be appropriate. A record of
applications which were not approved shall also be maintained for record
keeping purposes pursuant to the city's record retention schedule.
   (C)   Effect of approval.
      (1)   The approval of a preliminary plat is an acceptance of the general
layout as submitted and indicates to the applicant that they may proceed toward
fulfilling the necessary steps for approval of the final plat in accordance
with the terms of approval.
      (2)   Upon approval of the preliminary plat by the Council, the applicant
shall submit the final plat to the City Council within one year after the
approval, in compliance with §
153.096.
      (3)   Prior to the expiration of the preliminary plat approval, the City
Council may extend the approval for an additional year.
         (a)   The applicant shall submit such a request in writing to the
Zoning Administrator at least 30 days in advance of the expiration date and the
City Council shall consider the extension.
         (b)   The request for an extension shall specify the term of extension
and designate a new extension date.
         (c)   The extension shall not be subject to an additional fee and only
one extension may be granted per preliminary plat.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.085 PRELIMINARY PLAT AMENDMENT.
   Requested amendments to the preliminary plat shall follow the same procedure
outlined in this section. Should the applicant desire to amend the preliminary
plat as approved, they may resubmit an amended plat which shall follow the same
procedure, except for the fee, unless the amendment is, in the opinion of the
Zoning Administrator, of such scope as to constitute a new plat, in which such
case it shall be re-filed.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
FINAL PLAT
§ 153.095 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   An approved preliminary plat shall be on file with the city prior to
applying for a final plat that substantially conforms to the preliminary plat.
   (B)   The final plat may, if permitted by the City Council, constitute only
that portion of the approved preliminary plat which the applicant proposes to
record at the time.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.096 SUBMITTAL.
   (A)   The application for a final plat shall be submitted no later than one
year after the date of approval of the preliminary plat; otherwise the
preliminary plat and final plat will be considered void unless an extension is
requested in writing by the applicant and granted by the city.
   (B)   The applicant shall file the completed application form together with
required exhibits with the Zoning Administrator and shall pay a filing fee, as
established by the Council, for processing the final plat.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application and within 15
business days after receiving the application shall notify the applicant in
writing if the application is not complete and what additional information is
required.
   (D)   Criteria for complete submittal. No submittal to the city shall be
considered complete without receipt of three paper copies and one electronic
copy of the following:
      (1)   Final plat including:
         (a)   Date, scale, north point;
         (b)   Subdivision name and all street names;
         (c)   Location of the plat by quarter section, section, town and
range;
         (d)   Location and names of adjacent subdivisions;
         (e)   Exact location, widths and names of all existing platted or
dedicated streets, cul-de-sac names (i.e., place or circle), sidewalks,
easements, railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks, watercourses and drainage
ditches within the boundaries of the land to be subdivided;
         (f)   Identification and location of existing or potential wetlands.
Water elevations of adjoining lakes, rivers and streams at date of survey and
their approximate high and low water elevations. All elevations shall refer to
the established United States Coast and Geodetic Survey and/or United States
Geodetic Survey Datum;
         (g)   When the subdivision borders a lake, river or stream the contour
line above the indicated flood fringe boundary of the lake, river or stream
shall be shown on the plat;
         (h)   Exact location and width of all new streets, their angle of
intersection, length of arcs, radii, points of curvature and tangent bearings;
         (i)   Exact location and width of all easements and a statement of
easement rights;
         (j)   Exact length and bearings or angles of the exterior boundaries
of the land being subdivided;
         (k)   Exact dimensions of all lots;
         (l)   All lots shall be numbered by beginning the numbering with
number one and numbering each lot progressively, through the block in which
they are situated. All blocks shall be numbered progressively, by beginning the
numbering with the number one and numbering each block progressively through
each plat. Consecutive lot or block numbering shall not be continued from one
plat into another and one lot plats should have both a lot and block number;
         (m)   Exact location and area of all land to be dedicated for public
use or reserved by deed covenant for common use of all property owners with the
purpose indicated thereon. All lands dedicated for public use, other than
streets, shall be marked "Dedicated to the Public";
         (n)   Accurate location and material of all permanent reference
monuments including lot corners which shall be marked in accordance with
current surveying standards;
         (o)   Certificate of the registered land surveyor preparing the plat,
that the plat as presented, fully complies with the requirements of this
chapter, and the platting laws of the state relative to the surveying, dividing
and mapping of land; that the plat is a correct representation of all exterior
boundaries of the land surveyed; that the plat represents a survey made by the
surveyor and that all monuments indicated thereon exist and their location,
size and material are correctly shown; and
         (p)   Signature lines for certificates of approval:
            1.   A certificate issued by the authorized county officials
stating that there are no unpaid taxes or special assessments on any of the
lands included in the plat;
            2.   A certificate by the owner or owners dedicating to the public
for full public use all street and street rights-of-way and other lands
designated as "Dedicated to the Public" and the granting of utility easements
as shown on the plat;
            3.   A certificate of Planning and Zoning Commission approval
signed by the Planning and Zoning Commission Chair; and
            4.   A certificate of approval by the City Council signed by the
Mayor and Administrator.
      (2)   Final civil plans of the following:
         (a)   Grading and drainage plans:
            1.   Grading plan;
            2.   Erosion control plan;
            3.   Seeding plan; and
            4.   Grading details.
         (b)   Street and utility plans:
            1.   Sanitary and watermain plan;
            2.   Storm sewer schedule;
            3.   Storm sewer construction plan;
            4.   Draintile plan (if applicable);
            5.   Street construction plan;
            6.   Lighting and signage plan; and
            7.   Street and utility details.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.097 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Application distributed. When the Zoning Administrator determines the
application to be complete, the Zoning Administrator shall distribute the
application and exhibits to any applicable city staff, officials and other
government agencies for review and comment.
   (B)   Review and decision.
      (1)   When the Zoning Administrator determines the application to be
complete, the item shall be scheduled to be reviewed by the City Council;
      (2)   (a)   The City Council shall review and approve, approve
conditionally or deny the final plat application; and
         (b)   The City Council may table the review if they deem more
information is necessary.
      (3)   The City Council shall state, in writing, its findings for approval
or denial, as well as any conditions of approval.
   (C)   Criteria for review. In considering the final plat application, the
City Council shall consider the following factors:
      (1)   Substantial conformance with the approved preliminary plat and all
conditions of approval;
      (2)   Conformance with this chapter and all other applicable ordinances,
rules and regulations; and
      (3)   Consistency with the comprehensive plan's vision, mission, values
and policies.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.098 ISSUANCE OF DECISION.
   (A)   Notification. Following the decision by the City Council, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the applicant of the Council's action and reasons
thereof.
   (B)   Recording.
      (1)   The final plat for recording, after approval by the City Council,
shall substantially conform to M.S. § 505.021, as may be amended from time to
time.
      (2)   After the final plat has been approved by the City Council, all
conditions of approval have been met, and required improvements are either
installed or a contract and sureties insuring their installation is filed, the
applicant shall file the final plat and development agreement with the County
Recorder. Recording of the final plat and all associated conditions of approval
must be completed within one year of final approval.
      (3)   Failure to record the final plat, development agreement, and all
associated conditions of approval within one year of final approval shall
result in the requiring of a new preliminary plat which must be reviewed in
accordance with the procedure set out in this chapter to ensure compliance with
any new requirements.
      (4)   The city shall distribute copies of the approved final plat to all
approving agencies, affected utilities and other affected agencies for their
files.
   (C)   Effect of approval.
      (1)   Once the final plat has been recorded, activity may commence on the
site as long as it meets the installation of improvements as established in
this chapter or as otherwise agreed upon within the development agreement with
the city.
      (2)   Grading on the site may occur prior to recording of the final plat
and development agreement if a grading permit has been issued by the City
Engineer.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
VARIANCES
§ 153.110 APPLICABILITY.
   The standards and requirements of this chapter may be modified by the City
Council in accordance with the comprehensive plan safeguarded by appropriate
restrictions, conditions and adequate provisions for necessary community
facilities and without detriment to the public interest. No variance shall be
granted which shall have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of
this chapter.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.111 PRE-APPLICATION MEETING.
   A pre-application meeting pursuant to §
153.016 is suggested prior to submitting a variance application.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.112 SUBMITTAL.
   (A)   The applicant shall file the completed application form together with
required exhibits with the Zoning Administrator and shall pay a filing fee, as
established by the Council, for processing the variance.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application and within 15
business days after receiving the application shall notify the applicant in
writing if the application is not complete and what additional information is
required.
   (C)   Criteria for complete submittal. No submittal to the city shall be
considered complete without receipt of the following:
      (1)   Complete variance application.
      (2)   Narrative from applicant explaining why a variance from this
chapter is needed.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.113 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Application distributed. When the Zoning Administrator determines the
application to be complete, the Zoning Administrator shall distribute the
application and exhibits to any applicable city staff, officials and other
government agencies for review and comment.
   (B)   Hearing on the application.
      (1)   When the Zoning Administrator determines the application to be
complete, the Zoning Administrator shall set the date for a public hearing and
shall give all required notice in compliance with §
153.020.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold the public hearing
and may table the application for further investigation if necessary.
   (C)   Review and decision.
      (1)   Following the public hearing, the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall recommend approval, conditional approval or denial of the subdivision
variance request and shall transmit the request and application along with its
recommendations to the City Council.
      (2)   Upon receiving a recommendation from the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the City Council shall review and approve, approve conditionally or
deny the variance application by majority vote.
      (3)   The City Council shall state, in writing, its findings for approval
or denial, as well as any conditions of approval.
   (D)   Criteria for review. In considering the subdivision variance
application, the City Council shall consider the following factors:
      (1)   The requested subdivision variance is in harmony with the general
purposes and intent of this chapter;
      (2)   The requested subdivision variance is consistent with the
comprehensive plan and all other applicable city plans;
      (3)   The applicant has established that there are special circumstances
or conditions, such as topography, drainage, or other natural occurring
characteristics, affecting the property such that the strict application of the
provisions of this chapter would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of
the land; and
      (4)   The impact the variance will have on the public health, safety and
welfare of other property in the vicinity in which the property is situated.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.114 ISSUANCE OF DECISION.
   (A)   Notification. Following the decision by the City Council, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the applicant of the Council's action and reasons
therefor.
   (B)   Recording.
      (1)   A certified copy of the authorizing resolution, containing
identifiable description and any specific requirements for approval, shall be
recorded by the applicant with the County.
      (2)   A copy of a decision granting a subdivision variance in a
floodplain district shall be mailed by the city to the district office of the
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources within ten days of the decision.
   (C)   Effect of decision.
      (1)   Violations of the conditions of a subdivision variance shall void
the variance.
      (2)   Whenever within one year after granting a subdivision variance the
work as permitted by the variance shall not have been completed, then the
variance shall become null and void unless a petition for extension of time in
which to complete the work has been granted to the Council.
         (a)   The extension shall be requested in writing and filed with the
Zoning Administrator at least 30 days before the expiration of the original
subdivision variance. There shall be no charge for the filing of the petition.
The request for extension shall state facts showing a good faith attempt to
complete the work permitted in the subdivision variance or appeal. The petition
shall be presented to the City Council for a decision.
         (b)   A second extension shall require a new public hearing.
      (3)   A subdivision variance application which has been denied shall not
be submitted, in an exact or substantially similar form, for at least 12 months
from the date of denial.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.125 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The subdivision design standards contained in this chapter are to
assure that the style, character and form of new developments will conform to
minimum requirements promoting the health, safety and general welfare of the
public. In addition to these regulations and to ensure that future developments
are consistent with the growth objectives and goals of the community,
subdivisions shall conform to the comprehensive development plan of the
municipality, or any part thereof, and the official map, zoning ordinance and
any other applicable ordinances of the municipality.
   (B)   Each subdivision shall be designed in compliance with the standards of
this section, unless an exception is granted in compliance with §§
153.110 through
153.114, Variances.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.126 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Monuments.
      (1)   Official permanent monuments shall be placed as required by M.S. §
505.021, as may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   All monument markers shall be correctly in place upon final grading
and installation of utilities.
      (3)   The city will not issue building permits for a lot within a plat
until monuments have been placed for that lot.
      (4)   All United States, state, county or other official bench marks,
monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property shall be
preserved in precise position.
   (B)   Subdivision names. The proposed name of the subdivision shall not
duplicate or too closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other
subdivision in the city or county. The city shall have final authority to
designate the name of the subdivision.
   (C)   Street names. Street names shall be named according to the
municipality's street naming and numbering system, the Zoning Administrator
shall have discretion to alter the city street naming system, when appropriate,
in order to avoid confusion to the traveling public.
   (D)   Debris and waste.
      (1)   No items and materials such as cut trees, diseased trees, timber,
debris, earth, rocks, stones, soil, junk, rubbish or other waste materials of
any kind shall be left or deposited in any area of the subdivision through the
completion of the development agreement or dedication of public improvements,
whichever occurs sooner.
      (2)   No such items and materials as listed above shall be buried in any
land, or left or deposited on any lot or street at the time of the issuance of
a certificate of occupancy and removal of those items and materials shall be
required prior to issuance of any certificate of occupancy in a subdivision.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.127 LAND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Land shall be suited to the purpose for which it is to be subdivided.
No preliminary plats shall be approved if the site is not suitable for purposes
of the kind proposed by reason of potential flooding, topography or adverse
earth or rock formation.
   (B)   Land subject to hazards to life, health or property shall not be
subdivided for residential purposes until all hazards have been eliminated or
unless adequate safeguards against the hazards are provided by the preliminary
plat.
   (C)   Proposed subdivisions shall be coordinated with existing nearby
municipalities or neighborhoods so that the community as a whole may develop
harmoniously.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.128 WETLAND AND FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   (A)   Where the subdivision of a lot or tract of land contains watercourse,
floodable areas or wetlands the land shall, at the city's option, be:
      (1)   Dedicated to the city as a park, parkway, open space or other
public use;
      (2)   Carried in a private easement in the individual deeds affected with
no allowance for building construction therein; and
      (3)   Developed in accordance with a plan setting forth provisions for
sediment control, water management, maintenance of landscaped features and
indicating any change that will be made in the natural condition of the earth
and its effect, if any, upon watercourses, lakes, streams, wetlands and
drainage ways.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council shall review the
option selected and approve or disapprove the dedication, private easement or
development plan.
   (C)   In no case shall land be subdivided which is deemed unsuitable by the
city or the Commissioner of the State Department of Natural Resources for the
proposed use because of flooding, inadequate water supply or sewage disposal
capabilities or any other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety or
welfare of future residents of the proposed subdivision or of the city.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.129 CONSTRUCTION SETBACK REQUIREMENTS FROM PIPELINES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to increase public safety by
requiring that new development be set back from pipeline locations.
   (B)   Applicability. This section applies to new residential and other
development. It does not apply to development that has occurred or for which
development permits have been issued before the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this section.
   (C)   Setback. Buildings and places of public assembly subject to this
section shall not be constructed closer to the pipeline than the boundary of
the pipeline easement.
   (D)   Variances. Variance procedures adopted by the city under M.S. §§
366.10 to 366.19, §§ 394.21 to 394.37, or §§ 462.351 to 462.365, as may be
amended from time to time, shall apply.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
BLOCKS AND LOTS
§ 153.140 BLOCKS.
   The length, width and shape of blocks shall be determined with due regard to
the following:
   (A)   The provision of adequate building sites suitable to the particular
need of the type of use contemplated;
   (B)   Zoning requirements as to lot size and dimensions;
   (C)   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
traffic;
   (D)   Limitations and opportunities afforded by topography and other natural
features; and
   (E)   Block lengths shall not exceed 800 feet.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.141 LOTS.
   (A)   Lot dimensions shall conform to
Chapter 154; every lot shall be sized to meet the minimum dimensions
established by the zoning district and use-specific standards.
      (1)   Every lot that meets these minimum standards shall be considered
"buildable;"
      (2)   Outlots that do not meet these standards may be proposed for common
open space, stormwater or other utilities, private streets, or open areas set
aside for future subdivision; outlots shall not be considered "buildable."
   (B)   The size, width, shape and orientation of lots and the building
setback line shall be appropriate for the type of development and use
contemplated.
   (C)   Parcel remnants smaller in area than allowed by zoning are not allowed
and must be made part of another lot.
   (D)   Side lot lines shall be as near to right angles or radial to street
lines as possible.
   (E)   Every lot shall have street access for fire protection, utilities and
other necessary services.
   (F)   Lots shall not be so excessive in depth that they block desirable
access to adjacent property. The Planning and Zoning Commission may require
dedication of land for future streets in excessively deep lots.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
EASEMENTS AND UTILITIES
§ 153.155 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements for public utilities may be required by the Planning and
Zoning Commission, Park Board, City Engineer and essential public utilities.
Where the easements are determined to be necessary, they shall be provided
along the rear and side lot lines and shall be a minimum of ten feet in width
with a minimum five feet of the easement on each adjacent property being
divided.
   (B)   (1)   Where a watercourse, drainage way channel or stream traverses a
subdivision, there shall be provided a stormwater easement for drainage right-
of-way conforming substantially with the lines of the watercourse. The width of
any easement shall be adequate to provide for unobstructed flow of storm runoff
based on calculations made for the 100-year return period runoff and to provide
a freeboard allowance of one-half foot above the design water surface level.
The terms of the easement shall prohibit excavation, the placing of fill or
structures and any alterations which may adversely affect the flow of
stormwater within any portion of the easement. Also, the landowner shall
provide periodic maintenance to ensure proper runoff conveyance. Watercourses
for which the 100-year floodplain is formally defined are also subject to the
applicable floodplain regulations.
      (2)   If it is deemed advisable by the City Engineer, the watercourse or
drainage way may be re-established to conform with the proposed street pattern,
in which case suitable storm drainage or retention facilities shall be
installed as directed by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.156 UTILITIES.
   Where feasible, all utility service lines shall be placed underground and
within easements or dedicated rights-of-way. All drainage and other utility
installations which traverse privately-owned property shall be protected by
proper easements and/or legal agreements.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.157 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Extensions of the public water supply system shall, when available, be
designed so as to provide public water service to each lot.
   (B)   Water supply for all areas shall be designed to meet regulations and
recommended standards of the city and the State Department of Health. Where
connection with a public water system is feasible, the public water facilities
shall be utilized.
   (C)   When the subdivision is located within the service area of a public
water supply system, water mains not less than six inches in diameter shall be
constructed throughout the entire subdivision in such a manner as to serve
adequately all lots and tracts with connection to the public system together
with shut-off valves and fire hydrants at intervals of not greater than 600
feet.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.158 SANITARY SEWER.
   (A)   Extensions of the public sanitary sewer system shall, when available,
be designed so as to provide sewer service to each lot.
   (B)   Sewerage for all subdivisions shall be designed to meet regulations
and standards of the city and the State Pollution Control Agency. Where
connection with a central sewer system is feasible, the central sewer
facilities shall be utilized.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
STREET DESIGN
§ 153.170 GENERAL DESIGN.
   (A)   The street system of a proposed subdivision shall be designed to
facilitate adequate traffic circulation within the subdivision and from the
subdivision to adjacent areas.
   (B)   Street arrangements, character, width, grade, location, sight distance
and surface material shall be related to existing or planned streets,
topography, convenience and safety and their intended ultimate function.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.171 STREETS BY TYPE.
   (A)   Arterial streets. The arrangement of arterial streets in a subdivision
shall conform to the official street map and provide for the continuation or
projection of existing streets in adjacent areas; or conform to a plan approved
by the Planning and Zoning Commission where topographic or other conditions
make continuance or conformance to existing streets impracticable.
   (B)   Collector streets. Collector streets shall be properly related to
arterial streets and designed in a manner so as to supplement the arterial
street system, but not serve in lieu thereof.
   (C)   Local streets. Local streets shall be designed to benefit from the
topography, to discourage through traffic and to provide the minimum amount of
streets necessary for safe access to adjacent properties. The use of
curvilinear and cul-de-sac streets may be allowed where necessary, but are to
be discouraged.
   (D)   Frontage road. Where the subdivision abuts upon, or contains an
existing or proposed highway, major thoroughfare or railroad right-of-way, the
Planning and Zoning Commission may require reverse frontage lots with
appropriate screening/plantings in the non-access roads parallel to and on
either side of the highway, major thoroughfare or railroad right-of-way
providing access to adjacent properties and affording separation of through and
local traffic.
   (E)   Alleys.
      (1)   (a)   Dead-end alleys are prohibited, except where natural or other
features makes it impossible to avoid.
         (b)   Where dead-end alleys are unavoidable, they shall be provided
with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead-end as determined by the City
Engineer.
      (2)   Alleys shall not be permitted in any residential areas unless a
secondary means of access to certain property is necessary due to topography or
other exceptional circumstances.
   (F)   Minimum street design table. Streets shall be designed to meet the
minimal standards established in the table below.
                        Surface Width             Minimu m
            Rights- of-               Minimum     Tangent  Minimum Maximu m
Street Type Way                       Horizontal  Between  Grade   Grade
                                      Curve Radii Curves
                    Surface Width                   Minimu m
            Rights-                     Minimum     Tangent  Minimum Maximu m
Street Type of-Way  Curb and Open Ditch Horizontal  Between  Grade   Grade
                    Gutter              Curve Radii Curves

Arterial    80 feet 44 feet  48 feet    850 feet    200 feet 0.4%    5%
Collector   66 feet 36 feet  24 feet    400 feet    150 feet 0.4%    7%
Local
street in                               200 feet    100 feet         10%
residential
subdivision
Local
street in   66 feet 36 feet  24 feet    100 feet    100 feet 0.4%    7%
commercial
subdivision
Local
street in                               400 feet    150 feet         5%
industrial
subdivision
Alley       30 feet 20 feet  20 feet    200 feet    100 feet 0.4%    10%
Base and pavement specifications: As specified by the City Engineer and City
Council; in mixed use districts, use the most restrictive standard. Minimum
standard shall be 4" bituminous pavement, 8" aggregate base, 12" of granular
base
 
   (G)   Cul-de-sacs.
      (1)   Proposed streets designed to have one end permanently closed shall
not exceed 400 feet in length, except where the City Engineer has approved
additional length due to property limitations or large lot size.
      (2)   Cul-de-sac development is discouraged and will only be considered
as an exception, such as due to topography.
      (3)   Turnarounds shall be provided at the permanently closed end of all
streets and shall have a minimum right-of-way radius of 60 feet and a minimum
radius of 48 feet to face of curb.
      (4)   For phased developments or any streets with a temporarily closed
end, turnarounds shall be provided with a turning radius as determined by the
City Fire Chief.
   (H)   Open ditch street design.
      (1)   In areas of the city where geographical and topographical
characteristics exist that would not be economically or feasibly served by
standard subdivision criteria, the city may allow or require larger, more
spacious lots and allow or require these areas to be served by an "open-ditch"
street design.
      (2)   The following improvements will be required for all open ditch
street sections within the corporate limits of the city:
         (a)   Water and sanitary sewer services must be extended to a point
equal to or beyond the top of ditch backslopes;
         (b)   Surface drainage facilities and appurtenances as required by the
City Engineer. All driveway drainage structures must be designed to a Q50
standard. All public street drainage structures must be designed to a Q100
standard;
         (c)   Aggregate base as required by the City Engineer. Minimum
standards are ten inches compacted base finished to a width of 28 feet;
         (d)   Roadway surface of bituminous or concrete. Minimum standards are
four inches compacted with a total surfaced width of 24 feet;
         (e)   Ditch sections to be approved by the City Engineer. Minimum
standards are two-foot ditch, six-foot wide bottom and inslope/backslope grade
not greater than four to one; and
         (f)   Seeding, mulching and sodding or other restoration as required
by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.172 OTHER DESIGN ELEMENTS.
   (A)   Intersections.
      (1)   All streets shall intersect at right angles or as close thereto as
possible.
         (a)   No street shall intersect another at an angle of less than 70
degrees.
         (b)   More than two streets intersecting at the same location shall be
prohibited.
         (c)   Street jogs with centerline offsets shall be avoided.
      (2)   When the City Engineer finds it necessary for reason of safety and
the protection of property, property lines at street intersections shall be
rounded with a radius of 15 feet. The City Engineer may permit comparable cords
in lieu of the rounded corners.
   (B)   Walkways.
      (1)   All public walkways shall be constructed in conformance with
Chapter 94 of the City Code.
      (2)   Multi-use trails. All multi-use trails shall be constructed in
accordance with the MnDOT Bicycle Facility Design Manual, current edition
(www.dot.state.mn.us/bike/bycle-facility-design-manual.html).
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
STORMWATER, SURFACE WATER, DRAINAGE, WATER QUALITY AND EROSION CONTROL.
§ 153.185 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The following improvements will be required for all new subdivisions
within the corporate limits of the municipality and to the specifications as
adopted by the City Council.
   (B)   Where the provisions of state law or other city regulation or
ordinance set higher standards than those of this subchapter, the provisions of
the laws, regulations or ordinances shall apply.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.186 STORMWATER.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   All storm sewer improvements/construction shall be constructed in
conformance with
Chapters 52 and
53 of the City Code.
      (2)   All development with the exception of the construction of a single
family dwelling on an existing lot of record, shall incorporate adequate
provisions for stormwater runoff consistent with the City of Kasson standard
detail plates, engineering guidelines and this chapter.
      (3)   Drainage discharge shall be managed so post-development runoff is
equal to or less than pre-development.
      (4)   No stormwater runoff or natural drainage water shall be so diverted
or directed as to overload existing drainage systems or create flooding or the
need for additional drainage structures on other private properties or public
lands without proper and approved provisions being made for avoiding these
conditions.
   (B)   Calculation methodology.
      (1)   A hydrograph method based on sound hydrologic theory shall be used
to analyze runoff for the design or analysis of flows and water levels.
      (2)   The design of any permanent stormwater treatment system intended to
meet the requirements of this chapter shall be verified by routing the design
storm hydrograph through the proposed facility using the storage indication
method or other methodology demonstrated to be more appropriate.
      (3)   A stormwater report which includes pre and post development plans,
routings, hydrographs and any calculations required to demonstrate compliance
with this this chapter shall be submitted to the city for approval.
      (4)   Runoff rates for proposed activities and development shall:
         (a)   Apply land cover conditions existing as of the effective date of
this ordinance as the baseline for existing conditions in runoff calculations.
         (b)   Post-development runoff rates shall be less than or equal to
pre-development rates for the two-year, ten-year and 100-year design storms,
unless otherwise permitted by the City Engineer.
         (c)   Atlas 14 precipitation data shall be utilized for pre and post-
development runoff computations or as approved by the City Engineer.
   (C)   Permanent stormwater treatment system.
      (1)   Current NPDES general construction permit requirements shall apply.
      (2)   Permanent stormwater treatment systems facilities shall be designed
and constructed in accordance with the Minnesota Stormwater Manual current
edition and current NPDES general permit requirements.
         (a)   All permanent stormwater treatment systems shall be designed
with an emergency overflow to pass runoff in the event of a blocked outlet
control structure.
         (b)   The emergency overflow shall be designed and constructed to
prevent erosion to the spillway.
      (3)   Infiltration areas must be fenced or otherwise protected from
disturbance before the land disturbing activity starts.
      (4)   Vegetation used in conjunction with infiltration systems must be
tolerant of urban pollutants and the range of soil moisture conditions
anticipated.
   (D)   Stormwater collection and conveyance system.
      (1)   Stormwater collection and conveyance systems shall be designed to
convey the ten-year design storm.
      (2)   Permitted gutter flow width shall be determined based on the
required roadway in conjunction with providing a 12 foot unobstructed travel
lane for emergency vehicles. Swales shall be designed to convey the 100-year
design storm.
   (E)   Stormwater collection and conveyance systems shall be designed to
safely pass the 100-year design storm.
   (F)   Culverts, natural drainageways or other conveyance facilities shall be
sized to accommodate the potential runoff from its entire developed upstream
drainage area.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.187 SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   The following management practices shall be applied to all development and
earthmoving activities.
   (A)   All development shall conform to the natural limitations presented by
the topography and soil in order to create the best potential for preventing
soil erosion.
   (B)   All required erosion and sedimentation control best management
practices shall be installed prior to the start of any earthmoving activities.
   (C)   Best management practices for erosion control and sediment control
shall be applied to each development/construction site.
   (D)   Development on slopes with grades greater than 12% shall be carefully
reviewed to ensure that adequate measures have been taken to prevent erosion,
sedimentation and structural damage.
   (E)   For phase construction erosion and sediment control measures shall be
coordinated between separate stages of development.
   (F)   Final plant covering or permanent surface treatment shall be installed
as soon as possible after completion of final grading.
   (G)   Land shall be developed in increments of workable size such that
adequate erosion and siltation controls can be provided as construction
progresses. The smallest practical area of lands shall be exposed at any one
period of time and no exposure shall exceed 60 days unless extended by the
Council.
   (H)   Where the topsoil is removed, sufficient arable soil shall be set
aside for re-spreading over the developed area. The topsoil shall be restored
to a depth of four inches and shall be of a quality at least equal to the soil
quality prior to development.
   (I)   The natural drainage system shall be used, as far as feasible for
storage and flow of runoff except that no stormwater drainage shall be
discharged to marshlands, swamps or wetlands. Stormwater drainage shall be
discharged to retention basins or other treatment facilities. Temporary storage
areas or retention basins scattered throughout developed areas shall be
encouraged to reduce peak flow, erosion damage and construction cost.
   (J)   Public and private properties adjacent to the development site shall
be protected from the effects of sedimentation. Any violations of this
provision must be corrected by the owner to the satisfaction of the city within
five days of receiving notification of such. If the violation is not remedied
within the time period specified, the city may correct the problem and assess
the costs incurred to the property owner.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.188 EXPOSED SLOPES.
   The following control measures shall be taken to control erosion during
construction.
   (A)   No exposed slopes should be steeper in grade than one foot vertical
for every four feet horizontal.
   (B)   At the foot of each exposed slope, a channel and berm should be
constructed to control runoff. The channelized water should be diverted to a
sedimentation basin (debris basin, silt basin or silt trap) before being
allowed to enter the natural drainage system.
   (C)   Along the top of each exposed slope, a berm should be constructed to
prevent runoff from flowing over the edge of the slope. Where runoff collecting
behind the berm cannot be diverted elsewhere and must be directed down the
slope, appropriate measures shall be taken to prevent erosion. The measures
should consist of either an asphalt paved flow apron and drop chute laid down
the slope or a flexible slope drain. At the base of the slope drain or flow
apron, a gravel energy dissipater should be installed to prevent erosion at the
discharge end.
   (D)   Exposed slopes shall be stabilized based on degree of the slope, soils
material and expected length of exposure.
   (E)   Control measures, other than those specifically stated above, may be
used in place of the above measures if it can be demonstrated that they will as
effectively protect exposed slopes.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.189 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL DRAINAGEWAYS.
   (A)   Waterways.
      (1)   Every effort shall be made to retain the natural drainage systems
in the city including existing wetlands and ponds. Aboveground runoff disposal
waterways may be constructed to augment the natural drainage system.
      (2)   The widths of a constructed waterway shall be sufficiently large to
adequately channel runoff from a ten-year storm. Adequacy shall be determined
by the expected runoff when full development of the drainage area is reached.
      (3)   No fences or structures shall be constructed across the waterway
that will reduce or restrict the flow of water.
      (4)   The banks of the waterway shall be protected with permanent
vegetation.
      (5)   The banks of the waterway shall not exceed one foot vertical for
every four feet horizontal in gradient.
      (6)   The gradient of the waterway bed shall not exceed a grade that will
result in a velocity that will cause erosion of the banks of the waterway.
      (7)   The bend of the waterway shall be protected with turf, sod or other
City Engineer approved materials.
      (8)   If the flow velocity in the waterway is such that erosion of the
turf side wall will occur and the velocity cannot be decreased via velocity
control structures, then other City Engineer approved materials may replace
turf on the side walls. Either gravel or riprap would be allowed to prevent
erosion at these points.
   (B)   Sediment control of waterways.
      (1)   To prevent sedimentation of waterways, pervious and impervious
sediment traps and other sediment control structures shall be incorporated
throughout the contributing watershed.
      (2)   Temporary pervious sediment traps could consist of a construction
of bales of hay with a low spillway embankment section of sand and gravel that
permits a slow movement of water while filtering sediment. The structures would
serve as temporary sediment control features during the construction state of
development. Development of housing and other structures shall be restricted
from the area on either side of the waterway required to channel a 25-year
storm.
      (3)   Permanent impervious sediment control structures consist of
sediment basins (debris basins, de-silting basins or silt traps) and shall be
utilized to remove sediment from runoff prior to its disposal in any permanent
body of water.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
LAND DEDICATION
§ 153.200 PURPOSE.
   The provisions of this section are intended by the city to be an exercise of
the authority granted pursuant to M.S. § 462.358, Subd. 2(b), as may be amended
from time to time, to require that a reasonable portion of any proposed
subdivision of residential lands within the city be dedicated to the public or
preserved as community parks, playgrounds or open space; or that a reasonable
cash payment be received from the subdivider in lieu thereof in order to
facilitate development of similar facilities.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.201 SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall apply for a subdivision or
resubdivision (where the resubdivision causes an increased demand on parks) of
lands that are:
      (1)   Classified pursuant to this code as being located in a residential
zoning district;
      (2)   Classified as being in a nonresidential district at the time of the
application, but are intended to be developed following their subdivision in a
manner requiring their designation as a residential zoning district;
      (3)   Used for high density housing units that are permitted by other
means such as conditional use permits; or
      (4)   Zoned or platted for housing developments consisting of three or
more units.
   (B)   Upon consideration of the particular type of development proposed in
the subdivision, and especially in large scale neighborhood unit developments,
the city may require the dedication or reservation of areas of sites suitable
to the needs created by the development for schools, parks, trails and other
neighborhood purposes as may be described as future goals within the
comprehensive plan.
   (C)   Reservation of future park land.
      (1)   At the discretion of the City Council, upon recommendation of the
Planning and Zoning Commission, a subdivider may dedicate more land than would
be required by the formulas established by this chapter and receive a written
credit against future park land dedication requirements.
      (2)   The credit shall attach to the relieved land and remain with the
relieved land, regardless of change in ownership thereof.
   (D)   Subdivision changes. In the event a subdivider deviates from the
approved preliminary plat in a final plat, or replats property already platted,
or where the use of property is changed from a nonresidential use to a
residential use, the owner or subdivider shall be obligated to provide
additional land or fee to compensate for the increased demand on the park
system.
   (E)   Final platting of a portion of an approved preliminary plat.
      (1)   Whenever a subdivider applies for approval of a final plat which
contains only a portion of the land encompassed in the approved preliminary
plat, the subdivider shall be responsible for making a dedication of park land
or financial contribution as required, which is proportional to the area of the
final plat.
      (2)   The conditions of the allowances shall be in the form and manner
prescribed and approved by the county.
   (F)   Multi-plat developments.
      (1)   At the sole discretion of the Council, the city may enter into an
agreement with the applicant for a development containing multiple plats
concerning the timing and sequence of park land dedication.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any provision in this chapter to the contrary, the
multiple plat agreement shall determine the time when the required park land
dedication for multiple plat developments shall occur.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.202 MINIMUM AMOUNT OF DEDICATION.
   (A)   The city shall establish by ordinance the monetary value of the park
land dedication.
      (1)   This fee shall be periodically reviewed by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, Park Board and City Council.
      (2)   The fee shall be paid prior to recording the final plat of the
subdivision.
      (3)   All payments collected shall be placed in the appropriate park
acquisition and development fund established for the city.
   (B)   The City Council shall reserve the right to negotiate independently
with any property owner in the community to acquire land(s) to be used for
community parks. The monetary dedications from any or all subdivisions can be
used for these acquisitions or to expand existing facilities.
   (C)   The city reserves the right to acquire lands within a subdivision, in
accordance with the comprehensive land use plan, at the time of platting for a
future park or an addition to an existing park. These lands can be donated by
the owner as a credit against current or future dedication requirements.
   (D)   Following dedication of lands as provided herein, no person shall
remove trees, vegetation or topsoil therefrom, nor shall the lands be used for
the purpose of stockpiling of earth or construction material, without written
permission from the city.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.203 MARKETABILITY OF TITLE.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Prior to the dedication, a person proposing to subdivide the land
shall deliver to the City Attorney for examination an up to date abstract of
title or registered property certificate for examination or a title opinion by
a person licensed to practice law in the state.
      (2)   If the examination of title by the City Attorney, or the title
opinion indicated that title is not marketable, no subdivision of the land
shall occur until such steps are taken by the subdivider to permit marketable
title to be conveyed to the city by dedication upon the lands' subdivision or
by a subsequent separate conveyance.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The title to lands proposed to be subdivided shall not be deemed
unmarketable pursuant to this section by virtue of the fact that a mortgage or
other equitable interest in the lands is held by a person other than the
subdivider; or that the lands are subject to the lien of a special assessment.
      (2)   Provided that, any conveyance or other act of the subdivider which
thereafter conveys to the city title to the lands dedicated shall be free and
clear of any equitable interest or mortgage.
   (C)   Special assessments; real estate taxes.
      (1)   The city shall be responsible for the payment of any future special
assessments levied on the lands dedicated pursuant to this section.
      (2)   Payment of real estate taxes payable on the land dedicated in the
year of dedication shall be prorated between the city and the person
subdividing the property.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any subdivider who violates, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
the provisions or the enforcement of this chapter or who sells, offers for
sale, or leases any portion of land which is in violation of this chapter,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each day that a violation is committed, or permitted to exist, shall
constitute a separate offense. The imposition of any fine or sentence shall not
exempt the offender from compliance with the requirements of this chapter, and
the city may pursue, by appropriate actions or proceedings, any or all
additional remedies.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Authority
   
154.003   Intent and purpose
   
154.004   Jurisdiction and compliance
   
154.005   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.006   Severability and non-liability
   
154.007   Relief from personal responsibility
Interpretation
   
154.020   General application
   
154.021   Relationship to the comprehensive plan
   
154.022   Repeal, effective date and transition standards
   
154.023   Conflicting regulations or provisions
   
154.024   Use of graphics, illustrations, figures, photos and cross-references
   
154.025   Nonconformities
Official Map
   
154.035   Established
   
154.036   Map interpretation
Administration
   
154.050   General administration system
   
154.051   Zoning Administrator
   
154.052   Roles of specific city bodies in zoning administration
Procedures
   
154.065   General provisions
   
154.066   Site plan review
   
154.067   Conditional use permits
   
154.068   Variances
   
154.069   Zoning amendments
   
154.070   Establishment of a planned unit development (PUD)
   
154.071   Interim use permit
Enforcement
   
154.080   Authority and action
   
154.081   Enforcement procedures
   
154.082   Correction of the zoning violation
   
154.083   Failure to correct the zoning violation; enforcement remedies
   
154.084   Revocation
Establishment of Zoning Districts
   
154.095   Base districts established
   
154.096   Special districts established
Base Districts; General Provisions
   
154.110   Purpose statements
   
154.111   Uses
   
154.112   Principal uses table
   
154.113   Accessory uses table
   
154.114   Special provisions for Development Holding (DH) District
Lot and Site Dimension Standards
   
154.125   General provisions
   
154.126   Lot dimensional standards
   
154.127   Site dimensional standards
Floodplain Management Districts
   
154.140   Statutory authorization and purpose
   
154.141   Definitions
   
154.142   Jurisdiction and districts
   
154.143   Requirements for all floodplain districts
   
154.144   Floodway District
   
154.145   Flood Fringe District
   
154.146   General Floodplain District
   
154.147   Subdivision standards
   
154.148   Public and private utilities, service facilities, roads, bridges, and
railroads
   
154.149   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles
   
154.150   Administration
   
154.151   Nonconformities
   
154.152   Violations and penalties
   
154.153   Amendments
Planned Unit Developments
   
154.160   Planned unit development fixed district
   
154.161   Planned unit development
Use Specific Standards
   
154.175   Purpose
   
154.176   Household living
   
154.177   Group living
   
154.178   Lodging
Specific Public, Social or Healthcare Uses
   
154.190   Healthcare and interment services
   
154.191   Institutions
   
154.192   Education
   
154.193   Recreation and open space
   
154.194   Government services
Specific Commercial Uses
   
154.205   Food and beverage services
   
154.206   Other services
   
154.207   Retail
   
154.208   Arts and entertainment
Specific Industrial and Manufacturing Uses
   
154.220   Small production/commercial production
   
154.221   Indoor industrial activity
   
154.222   Outdoor industrial activity
Specific Agricultural and Natural Resources Uses
   
154.235   Natural resources
Specific Transportation Uses
   
154.245   Transportation uses
Specific Accessory Uses
   
154.255   Accessory to all uses
   
154.256   Accessory to residential uses
   
154.257   Accessory to nonresidential uses
Performance Standards
   
154.270   Applicability
   
154.271   Visual obstructions to vehicular traffic
   
154.272   Noise
   
154.273   Vibration
   
154.274   Glare
   
154.275   Odor
   
154.276   Emissions and pollutants
   
154.277   Fire and explosion hazard
   
154.278   Bulk storage (liquid, gas, grain and the like)
   
154.279   Outside storage
   
154.280   Refuse
   
154.281   Liquid or solid wastes
   
154.282   Sewage disposal
Parking, Loading, Access and Circulation
   
154.295   Off-street parking
   
154.296   Loading spaces
   
154.297   Access and driveways
   
154.298   Circulation
Landscaping, Screening, Walls and Fences
   
154.310   General landscaping
   
154.311   Bufferyards and screening
   
154.312   Fences and walls
Natural Resource Protection
   
154.325   Grading, filling and erosion control
   
154.326   Stormwater design
   
154.327   Preservation of natural drainageways
Sign Regulations
   
154.340   Purpose
   
154.341   Certificate required
   
154.342   Sign appearance
   
154.343   Construction
   
154.344   Permitted signs, all districts
   
154.345   Prohibited signs, all districts
   
154.346   Signs in residential districts
   
154.347   Signs in nonresidential districts
   
154.348   Measuring area
   
154.349   Measuring height
   
154.350   Consent
   
154.351   Exemptions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Kasson Zoning Ordinance" except as
referred to herein, where it shall be known as "this chapter".
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.002 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to the authority conferred by M.S. § 462.357, Laws of 1965, as may
be amended from time to time, this chapter is enacted.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.003 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Protect the public health, safety and general welfare of the community
and people in the city;
   (B)   Promote orderly development and redevelopment;
   (C)   Promote, protect and conserve the character and preserve and enhance
the stability of properties and areas within the city;
   (D)   Prevent overcrowding of land and undue concentrations of structures by
regulating land, buildings, yards and density of population;
   (E)   Provide adequate light, air and convenience of access to property;
   (F)   Prevent congestion in the public right-of-way;
   (G)   Provide for compatibility of different land uses;
   (H)   Protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and pollution of the
environment;
   (I)   Promote a visually pleasing environment throughout the community;
   (J)   Provide for administration of this chapter;
   (K)   Provide for amendments; and
   (L)   Prescribe penalties for violation of regulations.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.004 JURISDICTION AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of this chapter shall apply to all
structures, lands, water and air within the corporate limits of the City of
Kasson.
   (B)   Compliance. No new structure, new use of land, water or air or change
in the use of land, water or air shall hereafter be permitted and no structure
or part thereof shall hereafter be located, erected, moved, reconstructed,
extended, enlarged, converted or structurally altered without a proper zoning
permit and full compliance with the provisions of this chapter and all other
applicable local, county and state regulations.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.005 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair or
interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant
to law. However, whenever this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.006 SEVERABILITY AND NON-LIABILITY.
   (A)   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter is
adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
   (B)   If any application of this chapter to a particular structure, land or
water is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such judgment shall not be applicable to any other structure,
land or water not specifically included in said judgment.
   (C)   The city does not guarantee, warrant or represent that only those
areas designated as flood lands will be subject to periodic inundation and
hereby asserts that there is no liability on the part of the City of Kasson,
its agencies or employees for any flood damages, sanitation problems or
structural damages that may occur as a result of reliance upon and conformance
with this chapter.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.007 RELIEF FROM PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Any claim based upon an act or omission of an officer or employee
exercising due care in the execution of any valid or invalid portions of this
chapter and any claim based upon the performance or the failure to exercise or
perform a discretionary function or duty whether or not the discretion is
abused, are enumerated as exceptions to M.S. § 466.02, as may be amended from
time to time, and the section does not apply.
   (B)   The city shall defend, save harmless and indemnify any of its officers
or employees whether elected or appointed, against any tort claim or demand
whether groundless or otherwise arising out of an alleged act or omission
occurring in the performance of duty in the enforcement and administration of
this chapter, except as provided in M.S. § 466.07, as may be amended from time
to time.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
INTERPRETATION
§ 154.020 GENERAL APPLICATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the city and shall not be construed to be a limitation or repeal of
any other power now possessed by the City of Kasson.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.021 RELATIONSHIP TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The regulations established herein are derived from and established in
accordance with the City of Kasson Comprehensive Plan. This Title provides
regulations to implement the goals, objectives, policies and recommendations of
the City of Kasson Comprehensive Plan. References to the contents of the City
of Kasson Comprehensive Plan are contained herein.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.022 REPEAL, EFFECTIVE DATE AND TRANSITION STANDARDS.
   (A)   All other ordinances or parts of ordinances of the city inconsistent
or conflicting with this chapter, to the extent of the inconsistency or
conflict only, are hereby repealed.
   (B)   Permits. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all permits
filed on or after October 28, 2020. Permit applications on file before October
28, 2020 shall be reviewed for compliance with the Title effective at the time
of filing.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.023 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS OR PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements. Wherever the chapter imposes
a greater restriction than is imposed or required by other provisions of law or
by other rules or regulations or ordinances, the provisions of the chapter
shall govern except as otherwise provided in state statutes or rules.
   (B)   Where the provisions of state law or other city regulation or
ordinance set higher standards than those of this chapter, the provisions of
the laws, regulations or ordinances shall apply.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.024 USE OF GRAPHICS, ILLUSTRATIONS, FIGURES, PHOTOS AND CROSS-REFERENCES.
   (A)   Graphics, illustrations, figures, and photos are provided for
illustrative purposes only and shall not be construed as regulations. Where a
conflict may occur between the text and any graphic, illustration, figure, or
photo, the text shall control.
   (B)   In some instances, cross-references between chapters, articles, parts,
sections, and subsections are provided that include the chapter, division,
section or subsection number along with the name of the reference. Where a
conflict may occur between the given cross-reference number and name, the name
shall control.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.025 NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to provide for the regulation of
nonconforming buildings, structures and uses and to specify those requirements,
circumstances and conditions under which nonconforming buildings, structures
and uses will be operated and maintained.
      (2)   This chapter establishes separate districts, each of which is an
appropriate area for the location of uses which are permitted in that district.
It is necessary and consistent with the establishment of these districts that
nonconforming buildings, structures and uses not be permitted to continue
without restriction.
      (3)   Furthermore, it is the intent of this chapter that all
nonconforming uses shall be eventually brought into conformity.
   (B)   Continuation. Any structure or use lawfully existing upon the
effective date of this chapter shall not be enlarged, but may be continued at
the size and in the manner of operation existing upon the date, except as
hereinafter specified or subsequently amended.
   (C)   Extension. A nonconforming structure or use may be improved; provided,
no structural alterations or changes are made therein, except those required by
law or ordinance or such as may be required for safety or such as may be
necessary to secure or ensure the continued advantageous use of the building
during its natural life.
   (D)   Maintenance of building or structure. Normal maintenance of a building
or structure containing or related to a lawful nonconforming use is permitted,
including necessary nonstructural repairs and incidental alterations which do
not physically extend or intensify the nonconforming use.
   (E)   Damage.
      (1)   Any nonconforming building or structure damaged more than 50% of
its then appraised value, exclusive of foundations at the time of damage by
fire, collapse, explosion or acts of God or public enemy, shall not be restored
or reconstructed and used as before the happening.
      (2)   If less than 50% damaged above the foundation, it may be restored,
reconstructed or used as before; provided that:
         (a)   It is done within 12 months of the happening; and
         (b)   It be built of like or similar materials, or the architectural
design and building materials are approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
      (3)   The extent of damage or destruction shall be the mean of a value of
damage determined by the Building Official and the insurance agent. Each shall
submit a statement of the value of damage to the city.
   (F)   Change in use.
      (1)   A nonconforming use cannot be changed to a comparable nonconforming
use.
      (2)   Whenever a nonconforming use has been changed to a conforming use,
it shall not thereafter be changed to a nonconforming use.
   (G)   Discontinuance. In the event that a nonconforming use of any building,
structure or land is discontinued for a period of one year, any future use of
the building, structure or land shall be made to conform with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (H)   Land. The nonconforming lawful use of land where a structure thereon
is now so employed or existing at the time that this chapter becomes effective
may be continued provided:
      (1)   The nonconforming use of land shall not, in any way, be expanded,
extended or intensified either on the same or adjoining property; and
      (2)   If the nonconforming use of land, existing at the time this chapter
became effective, is thereafter discontinued or changed, then the future use of
the land shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Zone changes. The foregoing provisions relative to nonconforming uses
shall apply to structures, buildings, land and uses which hereafter become
nonconforming due to classification or reclassification of districts under this
chapter.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
OFFICIAL MAP
§ 154.035 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The City of Kasson is hereby divided into Zoning Districts as shown
upon a map designated as the Official Zoning Map of the City of Kasson, as may
be updated periodically and all applicable amendments thereto and made a part
of this chapter.
   (B)   The Official Zoning Map and all the notations, references and other
information shown thereon are a part of this Zoning Ordinance and shall have
the same force and effect as if the matters and information set forth by said
map were fully described herein.
   (C)   The Official Zoning Map shall be properly attested and kept on file
along with the text of the Official Zoning Ordinance in the office of the City
Clerk of the City of Kasson.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.036 MAP INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Except where referenced on the zoning map to lot lines or other
designated lines by dimensions shown on the map, the district boundary lines
follow the centerline of railroad right-of-way, streets, alleys, lakes or
rivers as they existed at the time of the adoption of this chapter.
   (B)   Questions concerning district boundary lines as shown on the zoning
map shall be decided by the City Council after recommendation by the Planning
and Zoning Commission.
   (C)   Vacation of streets and alleys.
      (1)   Vacation of public streets and alleys shall cause the land vacated
to be automatically placed in the same district as the abutting side to which
the vacated land reverts.
      (2)   Whenever any street, alley, easement or public way is vacated by
official action, the zoning district abutting the centerline of the vacated
area shall not be affected by the procedure.
   (D)   Annexations. Annexations to or consolidations with the city subsequent
to the effective date of this chapter shall be placed in the D-H Development
Holding District at the time of annexation, unless the Annexation Ordinance
places the land in another district, in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.050 GENERAL ADMINISTRATION SYSTEM.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the City Zoning
Administrator, who shall be appointed by the City Council or by an authorized
representative of the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.051 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator shall enforce this chapter and shall perform the
following duties:
   (A)   Issue permits related to land use and zoning and maintain record
thereof;
   (B)   Conduct inspections of land uses and site features such as structures,
impervious surfaces and fences to determine compliance with the terms of this
chapter;
   (C)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including, but
not limited to: maps, amendments, conditional uses, variances, appeals and
applications therefor;
   (D)   Examine applications to amend this chapter and/or the Official Zoning
Map, applications for conditional use permits and variance requests;
   (E)   Examine site plans required for land use or zoning applications,
including any proposed construction, alteration, repair, and enlargement of
structures and examine proposed uses for compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and endorse thereon the date of approval;
   (F)   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have
been received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required
by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334, as may be amended from time to time;
and
   (G)   Provide notification to applicants the approval or denial of their
land use or zoning request.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.052 ROLES OF SPECIFIC CITY BODIES IN ZONING ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall provide assistance to the
City Council and Zoning Administrator in the administration of this chapter and
the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be advisory in
nature. Specifically, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall review, hold
public hearings and make recommendations to the Council on all applications for
zoning amendments, variances and conditional use permits using the criteria in
this chapter.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall periodically prepare and
file with the City Council a report on the operations of this chapter, as
amended, including, when necessary, recommendations as to the enactment of
amendments or supplements thereto.
   (B)   City Council. The City Council, the governing body of the city, taking
into consideration the recommendations by the Planning and Zoning Commission,
has ultimate authority to:
      (1)   Make changes and amendments in zoning districts, the zoning map and
supplementary floodplain zoning map and to amend the text of this chapter.
      (2)   Make decisions on the approval of conditional use permits.
      (3)   Serve as the Board of Adjustment and Appeals to make decisions on
the approval of variances.
   (C)   Board of Adjustments and Appeals.
      (1)   A Board of Adjustments and Appeals is established to provide an
appeal procedure for persons who deem themselves aggrieved by decisions of
administrative officers in enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   The City Council shall serve as a Board of Adjustment and Appeals.
The Board shall have the powers and duties as set forth in M.S. § 462.357,
Subd. 6, and § 462.359, Subd. 4, as may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall have the power to vary
or adapt the strict application of any of the requirements of this chapter in
exceptional cases where strict application would result in practical difficulty
depriving the owner of the reasonable use of his or her land or building
involved, but in no other uses except as specifically described.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
PROCEDURES
§ 154.065 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. The requirements of this chapter shall apply to all
land use and zoning applications and procedures subject to review under this
chapter unless otherwise stated.
   (B)   Permits required. Property owners or their agents shall obtain all
required local, state and federal permits prior to initiating any activities on
their site.
   (C)   Authority to file applications.
      (1)   Land use and zoning applications for an individual property may be
initiated by:
         (a)   The owner of the property that is the subject of the
application;
         (b)   An agent authorized by the owner of the property that is the
subject of the application, which may include a lessee of the property.
Evidence of such authorization shall be the signature of the property owner;
and
         (c)   If the property subject to an application is under more than one
ownership, all owners or their authorized agents shall join in filing the
application.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council may initiate
text and map amendments to this chapter. If the subject of the amendment is a
specific site or project, the Planning and Zoning Commission or City Council
may initiate amendments with or without application from the owner.
   (D)   Pre-application meetings. A pre-application meeting is an informal
discussion between a potential applicant and city staff regarding a possible
project subject to this chapter. The Zoning Administrator shall determine which
city staff shall attend the pre-application meeting.
      (1)   The purpose of the pre-application meeting is to assist the
applicant in identifying the type of approvals needed, the potential review
criteria and the information to be contained in the application(s).
      (2)   Discussions that occur during pre-application meetings are not
binding on the city and do not constitute official assurances or
representations on the city.
      (3)   Pre-application meetings are required or recommended based on
application type.
   (E)   Application materials and fees.
      (1)   Each application for a permit or approval, or for an amendment of a
permit or approval, shall include all those application materials listed in the
“Criteria for Complete Submittal” subsection of each land use and zoning
application described in §
154.066 through §
154.070.
      (2)   The city may reject an application not meeting the requirements of
this chapter or where the required fee or escrow has not been paid.
      (3)   Fees.
         (a)   To defray administrative costs of processing of requests for
variances, conditional uses and amendments to the official zoning map and text
of this chapter a base fee shall be paid by all applicants. The fee shall be
set by ordinance of the City Council, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (b)   1.   In order to defray the additional cost of processing
applications (amendment, conditional use, variance, appeal) for development,
all applicants shall pay the total cost of all materials for the request.
            2.   Materials shall include, but not be limited to maps, graphs,
charts, drawings and the like and all printing or reproduction of such
materials.
         (c)   Fees shall be payable at the time applications are filed with
the Zoning Administrator.
            1.   No application shall be processed until the established fee
has been paid.
            2.   A deposit to cover special materials will be established and
required by the Zoning Administrator at the time the base fee is paid, if
necessary.
   (F)    Coordination of applications.
      (1)   Depending on the requirements of this chapter, multiple
applications may be required.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall determine the order of application
review based on the City Code, including this chapter and state requirements.
Where possible, applications will be reviewed in tandem.
   (G)   Technical assistance. In making its decision, the city may determine
that technical assistance is needed. The city may request assistance from any
source that is qualified to provide it. The applicant shall be responsible for
the cost of such technical assistance.
   (H)   Withdrawal of any applications.
      (1)   Any request for withdrawal of an application shall be submitted in
writing to the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   In all cases where the applicant has requested withdrawal of an
application, the associated fee paid and any costs incurred by the city in the
processing of an application shall not be refunded.
   (I)   Sixty day rule.
      (1)   In compliance with M.S. § 15.99, as may be amended from time to
time, the city shall take action to approve or deny applications for
conditional use permit, variances and zoning amendments within 60 days of
receiving a completed application.
      (2)   If the city cannot take action to approve or deny the application
within 60 days of receiving the completed application, the city may extend the
timeline for taking action before the end of the initial 60-day period by
providing written notice of the extension to the applicant. The notification
shall state the reasons for the extension and its anticipated length, which may
not exceed 60 days unless approved by the applicant in writing.
   (J)   Public hearing. For all land use and zoning procedures which require a
public hearing, the following shall apply:
      (1)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published in the official
newspaper of the municipality at least ten days prior to the date of the
hearing.
      (2)   The notice shall also be mailed not less than ten days to all
property owners of record according to the county assessment records within 350
feet of the property.
      (3)   A copy of the notice and list of the individuals and/or property
owners and addresses to which the notices were sent shall be attested to by the
Zoning Administrator and made part of official record. The failure to give
mailed notice to individual property owners, or defects in the notice, shall
not invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona fide attempt to comply with
this chapter has been made.
      (4)   Each required notice shall include the following information:
         (a)   The name of the applicant;
         (b)   The address, property identification number or other method of
clearly identifying the property;
         (c)   The type of approval being sought;
         (d)   Contact information where additional information can be
obtained;
         (e)   Date, time and location of the public hearing; and
         (f)   Right and procedure to receive notice of any appeal.
      (5)   In the case of an appeal, mailed notice shall also be provided to
any interested parties who have notified the city in writing that they would
like to receive notice of the appeal.
      (6)   If the application pertains to land within the Floodplain
Management Overlay District under local management control, a copy of the
application and notice of hearing shall be provided to the Minnesota Department
of Natural Resources (DNR). The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S.
Mail to the respective DNR area hydrologist.
   (K)   Notification of decision. The Zoning Administrator shall provide
notification to applicants the approval or denial of their land use or zoning
request; if the request is denied, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the
applicant in writing stating the reason for denial.
   (L)   Resubmittal of denied application. No land use or zoning application
which has been denied wholly or in part may be resubmitted for at least one
year from the date of its denial, unless substantial changes have been made
which warrant reconsideration, as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   (M)   Appeals.
      (1)   Appeals shall be taken within such time as shall be prescribed by
the Board of Adjustments and Appeals by general rule, by filing with the Board
a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereon.
      (2)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal
and give due notice thereof to the appellant and to the Planning and Zoning
Commission and shall decide the same within a reasonable time.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustments and Appeals may reverse or affirm wholly
or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination, as
in its opinion ought to be made in the premises and to that end shall have all
the powers of the officer, commission or Council, from whom the appeal was
taken and may issue or correct the issuance of a permit or take such other
action as may be called for by the procedure in question.
      (4)   The reason for the Board's decision shall be stated in writing.
      (5)   Any person having an interest affected by the decision shall have
the right to appeal to the District Court for the county.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.066 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Site plan review approval shall be required for all site
alterations, construction, and change of uses for residential properties with
three or more units and any nonresidential properties.
      (2)   This review may be part of a building permit approval process, or
may be for land use and zoning activities not requiring a building permit, such
as installation of fences and construction of impervious surfaces on a
property.
   (B)   Pre-application meeting. A pre-application meeting pursuant to §
154.065(D) is recommended prior to submitting a site plan review application.
   (C)   Submittal.
      (1)   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with required exhibits with the Zoning Administrator and shall pay a filing
fee, as established by the Council, for processing the site plan review
application.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application and within 15
business days after receiving the application shall notify the applicant in
writing if the application is not complete and what additional information is
required.
      (3)   Criteria for complete submittal. No submittal to the city shall be
considered complete without receipt of the following:
         (a)   A completed application form;
         (b)   Evidence of ownership or enforceable option on the property;
         (c)   A survey/site plan, to-scale, of the property, with the
following:
            1.   Property boundary;
            2.   Locations and dimensions of existing features, such as
structures, impervious surfaces, fences/retaining walls, waterbodies and
wetlands; and
            3.   Locations and dimensions of proposed features, such as
structures, impervious surfaces, fences/retaining walls, refuse storage areas.
         (d)   Additional elements, as may be required depending on the site
and proposed use. These may be included within the site plan or as separate
plan documents:
            1.   Grading and drainage plan showing existing and proposed
topography at two-foot contours;
            2.   Parking, loading and circulation plan;
            3.   Screening and bufferyard landscaping plan; and
            4.   Utility plan.
   (D)   Review process.
      (1)   Review and decision.
         (a)   When the Zoning Administrator determines the application to be
complete, the Zoning Administrator shall review the application for compliance
with the applicable zoning standards of this chapter and shall have the
authority to approve or deny the application.
         (b)   Before granting any site approval, the Zoning Administrator may,
besides obtaining advice from consultants, secure such advice as may be deemed
necessary from the Director of Public Works or other municipal officials, with
special attention to the effect of such approval upon existing municipal
services and utilities.
      (2)   Criteria for review. In reviewing the application and materials for
approval, the Zoning Administrator shall consider the following:
         (a)   Compliance with the zoning standards of the base zoning district
and any special district, including but not limited to: lot size, setbacks,
building height and impervious surface coverage;
         (b)   Compliance with applicable use-specific standards, as detailed
in §§
154.175 to
154.178, Use Specific Standards; and
         (c)   Compliance with development standards, as detailed in §§
154.125 to
154.127, which include, but are not limited to: general performance standards,
parking, loading, and circulation standards, and screening and bufferyard
landscaping standards.
   (E)   Issuance of decision.
      (1)   Notification. Upon decision of approval of the site plan review
application, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant of approval
and that the proposed activity may commence.
         (a)   If the site plan review be part of a building permit application
process, commencement of proposed activity shall not be permitted until both
the site plan review and building permit are fully approved.
         (b)   Should the decision of the Zoning Administrator be denial of the
application, the Zoning Administrator shall provide the applicant reason for
denial in writing.
      (2)   Recording.
         (a)   The city shall maintain a record of all approved site plan
review applications including a copy of the application, materials, review
dates and such other information as may be appropriate. A record of
applications which were not approved shall also be maintained for record
keeping purposes.
         (b)   If the site plan review is for a use with use-specific
standards, as listed within §§
154.175 to
154.178, those standards and the application’s compliance with those standards
shall be included within the record maintained by the city.
      (3)   Effect of approval.
         (a)   Approval of a site plan review application shall expire in 12
months unless substantial work has commenced, or in 24 months after approval if
the structure for which the site plan review has been approved is not
substantially completed. In the event of expiration, the applicant shall
reapply for a site plan review before commencing work on the structure.
         (b)   Should the use of the property change or circumstances of the
site differ from the approved site plan review, including compliance with the
use-specific standards listed in §§
154.175 to
154.178, the approval shall no longer be considered upheld and the Zoning
Administrator shall proceed through enforcement actions as described in §§
154.080 through
154.084.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.067 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Applicability. The purpose of a conditional use permit is to permit a
use that would not be appropriate generally, but may be allowed with
appropriate restrictions upon finding that:
      (1)   Certain conditions as detailed in this chapter exist;
      (2)   The use or development conforms to the comprehensive plan; and
      (3)   Is compatible with the existing area.
   (B)   Pre-application meeting. A pre-application meeting pursuant to §
154.065(D) is required prior to submitting a conditional use permit
application.
   (C)   Submittal.
      (1)   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with required exhibits with the Zoning Administrator and shall pay a filing
fee, as established by the City Council, for processing the conditional use
application.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application and within 15
business days after receiving the application shall notify the applicant in
writing if the application is not complete and what additional information is
required.
      (3)   Criteria for complete submittal. No submittal to the city shall be
considered complete without receipt of the following:
         (a)   A completed application form;
         (b)   An accurate boundary description of the property;
         (c)   Evidence of ownership or enforceable option on the property;
         (d)   A development plan of the property showing the existing or
proposed buildings, streets, access roads, driveways, parking spaces and signs;
         (e)   Landscaping and screening plans;
         (f)   Any submittal materials pertaining to a site plan review, as
listed in §
154.066, as may be required at the discretion of the Zoning Administrator; and
         (g)   Any additional information deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator to determine the suitability of the particular site for the
proposed use.
   (D)   Review process.
      (1)   Application distributed. When the Zoning Administrator determines
the application to be complete, the Zoning Administrator shall distribute the
application and exhibits to any applicable city staff, officials and other
government agencies for review and comment.
      (2)   Hearing on application.
         (a)   When the Zoning Administrator determines the application to be
complete, the Zoning Administrator shall set the date for a public hearing and
shall give all required notice in compliance with §
154.065(J)
         (b)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold the public hearing
and may table the application if necessary to study the application to
determine possible adverse effects of the proposed conditional use and
determine what additional requirements may be necessary to reduce any adverse
effects.
      (3)   Review and decision.
         (a)   Upon the conclusion of the public hearing, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall recommend to the City Council either approval of the
conditional use permit, approval of the conditional use permit subject to
amended or conditions or denial of the conditional use permit.
         (b)   The City Council shall act upon the application within 30 days
after receiving the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (4)   Criteria for review.
         (a)   In making the determination, whether or not the conditional use
is to be allowed, the City Council shall consider:
            1.   The effects of the proposed use on the comprehensive plan; and
            2.   The effects of the proposed use upon the health, safety and
general welfare of occupants of surrounding lands.
         (b)   Among other things, the City Council shall make the following
findings where applicable:
            1.   The proposed conditional use meets all of the applicable use
specific standards listed within §§
154.175 to
154.178;
            2.   The use is not in conflict with the comprehensive plan of the
city;
            3.   The use is consistent with the purpose of this chapter and the
purposes of the zoning district in which the applicant intends to locate the
proposed use;
            4.   The use will not cause traffic hazards and the traffic
generated by the proposed use can be safely accommodated on existing or planned
street systems; and the existing public roads providing access to the site will
not need to be upgraded or improved by the city in order to handle the
additional traffic generated by the use;
            5.   Adequate measures have been taken or are proposed to prevent
or control offensive odor, fumes, dust, noise, vibration or lighting which
would otherwise disturb the use of neighboring property;
            6.   Adequate utilities, parking, drainage and other necessary
facilities will be provided;
            7.   The proposed use will not impede the normal and orderly
development or improvements of the surrounding property;
            8.   The proposed use will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the neighborhood and will not significantly
diminish or impair the values of the property;
            9.   The use will not disrupt the character of the neighborhood;
and
            10.   The structure and site shall have an appearance that will not
have an adverse effect upon adjacent residential properties.
         (c)   Additional conditions. In permitting a new conditional use or in
the amendment of an existing conditional use, the city may impose, in addition
to the standards and requirements expressly specified by this chapter,
additional conditions which the city considers necessary to protect the best
interest of the surrounding area or the community as a whole. These conditions
may include, but are not limited to, the following:
            1.   Increasing the required yard setback dimension;
            2.   Limiting the height, size or location of the buildings;
            3.   Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points;
            4.   Increasing the street width;
            5.   Increasing the number of required off-street parking spaces;
            6.   Limiting the number, size, location or lighting of signs;
            7.   Requiring diking, fencing, screening, berming, landscaping or
other facilities to protect adjacent or nearby property;
            8.   Designating sites for open space; and
            9.   Limiting the hours of operation.
   (E)   Issuance of approval.
      (1)   Recording.
         (a)   The city shall maintain a record of all conditional use permits
issued including information on the use, location and conditions imposed by the
city; time limits, review dates and such other information as may be
appropriate. A record of applications which were not approved shall also be
maintained for record keeping purposes.
         (b)   All CUPs shall be issued pursuant to M.S. § 462.3595 as may be
amended from time to time and a certified copy of any conditional use permit
shall be recorded with the county recorder along with a legal description of
the property subject to the CUP.
      (2)   Effect of approval.
         (a)   If a conditional use permit is approved or approved with
additional conditions, all future use of the land and structures erected on the
land pursuant to the permit shall comply with its terms and conditions.
         (b)   Amendment.
            1.   A property owner may request an amendment to the conditions of
an existing conditional use permit by submitting a full application for a
conditional use permit and going through the full procedure described in this
section.
            2.   In their review, the Planning and Zoning Commission and the
City Council shall consider the original conditions of the approved CUP and
find that the amended condition(s) are no longer relevant, are in need of
updating, or need to be removed.
         (c)   Revocation.
            1.   The city may call for the revocation a conditional use permit
when it finds that at least one of the following circumstances exists:
               a.   The approval was obtained by fraud;
               b.   Where a conditional use permit has been issued and no work
thereon has commenced, or the use has not yet commenced, within 12 months of
the date of granting the conditional use permit, excluding time during which
the property owner can demonstrate: (1) the city had pending before it an
application for a permit or land use entitlement directly related to, or for
the purpose of, conducting said use; (2) a valid building permit directly
related to said use or activity was in effect and was being diligently pursued;
or (3) the property owner has been actively negotiating to sell the property,
as evidenced by a purchase and sale agreement, proof of escrow, or other
similar binding agreements, or the property is subject to a binding lease with
a tenant who is diligently pursuing a business to reestablish the use on the
site;
               c.   In the event that the applicant violates any of the
conditions set forth in the conditional use permit.
            2.   Should revocation of a conditional use permit be called for,
the Zoning Administrator shall set the date for a public hearing and shall give
all required notice in compliance with §
154.065(J).
            3.   The public hearing shall be held by the Planning and Zoning
Commission. If the Planning and Zoning Commission finds that the continuation
of the conditional use is in violation of this chapter, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall recommend the City Council revoke the conditional use permit.
            4.   The City Council shall act upon the recommendation of the
Planning and Zoning Commission within 30 days of receiving the recommendation.
The Zoning Administrator shall, in writing, inform the individual or party in
question of the action of the Council and shall enforce the action taken.
   (Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020; Ord. 1.1-2021, passed 2-10-2021)
§ 154.068 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Applicability. The City Council, in its capacity as the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals and consistent with the authority granted by law, may
grant a property owner a variance from compliance with the literal provisions
of the zoning code in an instance where strict enforcement would cause
practical difficulties to the individual property owner and when it can be
demonstrated that such action will be in keeping with the spirit and intent of
the code.
   (B)   Practical difficulty.
      (1)   “Practical difficulty” as used in connection with the granting of a
variance shall include all the following:
         (a)   The property owner proposes to use the property in a reasonable
manner that is not otherwise not permitted by an official control;
         (b)   The plight of the property owner is due to circumstances unique
to the property, not created by the property owner;
         (c)   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality; and
         (d)   The need for the variance involves more than economic
considerations.
      (2)   “Practical difficulties” also means and includes, but is not
limited to, inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems.
   (C)   Pre-application meeting. A pre-application meeting pursuant to §
154.065(D) is required prior to submitting a variance application.
   (D)   Submittal.
      (1)   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with required exhibits with the Zoning Administrator and shall pay a filing
fee, as established by the Council, for processing the variance application.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application and within 15
business days after receiving the application shall notify the applicant in
writing if the application is not complete and what additional information is
required.
      (3)   Criteria for complete submittal. No submittal to the city shall be
considered complete without receipt of the following:
         (a)   A completed application form;
         (b)   An accurate boundary description;
         (c)   Evidence of ownership or enforceable option on the property;
         (d)   An accurate drawing, at scale, showing property lines, location
of existing buildings and proposed project;
         (e)   A narrative by the applicant explaining why the situation of the
subject property creates a practical difficulty, as identified in §
154.068(B) and requires a variance from the provisions of this chapter; and
         (f)   Any submittal materials pertaining to a site plan review, as
listed in §
154.068, as may be required at the discretion of the Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Review process.
      (1)   Application distributed. When the Zoning Administrator determines
the application to be complete, the Zoning Administrator shall distribute the
application and exhibits to any applicable city staff, officials and other
government agencies for review and comment.
      (2)   Hearing on application.
         (a)   When the Zoning Administrator determines the application to be
complete, the Zoning Administrator shall set the date for a public hearing and
shall give all required notice in compliance with §
154.065(J).
         (b)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold the public hearing
and may table the application for further investigation if necessary.
      (3)   Review and decision.
         (a)   Upon the conclusion of the public hearing, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall recommend to the City Council, in its role as the Board
of Adjustments and Appeals, either approval of the variance, approval of the
variance subject to conditions or denial of the variance.
         (b)   The City Council, in its role as the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals, shall act upon the application within 30 days after receiving the
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
         (c)   In granting the variance, the City Council, in its role as the
Board of Adjustment and Appeals, may impose additional conditions to ensure
compliance with its decision and to protect adjacent properties. Such
conditions must be directly related to and bear a rough proportionality to the
impact created by the variance.
      (4)   Criteria for review.
         (a)   In its consideration of a variance request, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall consider the following questions when making their
recommendation to the City Council:
            1.   Whether or not exceptional, unique or extraordinary
circumstances apply to the physical surrounding, shape or topographic
conditions of the parcel of land that result in practical difficulties for the
owner;
            2.   Whether or not the variance requested will alter the essential
character of the locality;
            3.   Whether or not granting the variance requested will:
               a.   Impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent
property;
               b.   Substantially increase congestion in adjacent public
streets;
               c.   Endanger the public safety; or
               d.   Substantially diminish or impair property values within the
vicinity.
            4.   Whether the variance requested is the minimum variance that
would alleviate the practical difficulties;
            5.   Whether or not the variance requested is consistent with the
intent of this chapter and the city's comprehensive plan; and
            6.   Whether or not the variance requested provides for a
reasonable and practical solution that eliminates the practical difficulties.
         (b)   In its consideration of a variance request, the City Council
shall make the following findings:
            1.   The proposed use is not prohibited in the zoning district in
which the subject property is located;
            2.   The variance must be in harmony with the general purposes and
intent of this chapter;
            3.   The terms of the variance must be consistent with the
comprehensive plan; and
            4.   The landowner must show that the variance is necessary to
alleviate the practical difficulties in complying with the official control.
   (F)   Issuance of decision.
      (1)   Recording. The city shall maintain a record of all variances issued
including information on the use, location and conditions imposed by the city;
time limits, review dates and such other information as may be appropriate. A
record of applications which were not approved shall also be maintained for
record keeping purposes.
      (2)   Effect of approval.
         (a)   Approval of the variance shall expire if no work thereon has
commenced within 12 months of the date of approving the variance.
         (b)   The City Council, in its capacity as the Board of Adjustments
and Appeals and consistent with the authority granted by law, may grant a
property owner a revocation or an amendment to an existing variance; the
property owner may start the process by submitting a full application for a
variance and going through the full procedure described in this section.
         (c)   Enforcement and revocation.
            1.   Should the property violate any conditions of approval for the
variance, the Zoning Administrator shall proceed through enforcement actions as
described in §§
154.080 through
154.083.
            2.   Should those enforcement actions still not result in remedying
the violated conditions of approval, then the Zoning Administrator shall notify
the property owner in writing that the city will commence the revocation
process in 30 calendar days if the violated conditions have not been remedied.
After 30 days, the Zoning Administrator shall set the date for a public hearing
and shall give all required notice in compliance with §
154.065(J).
            3.   The public hearing shall be held by the Planning and Zoning
Commission. If the Planning and Zoning Commission finds that the property is in
violation of the conditions of the variance, the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall recommend the City Council revoke the variance.
            4.   The City Council shall act upon the recommendation of the
Planning and Zoning Commission within 30 days of receiving the recommendation.
The Zoning Administrator shall, in writing, inform the individual or party in
question of the action of the Council and shall enforce the action taken.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020; Ord. 1.1-2021, passed 2-10-2021)
§ 154.069 ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   The Council may adopt amendments to this chapter and the zoning map
in relation both to land uses within a particular district or to the location
of a district line. The amendments shall not be issued indiscriminately, but
shall only be used as a means to reflect changes in the goals and policies of
the city as reflected in the comprehensive plan or changes in conditions in the
city.
      (2)   Types of amendments:
         (a)   A change in a district's boundary (rezoning);
         (b)   A change in a district's regulations; and
         (c)   A change in any other provision of this chapter.
      (3)   Initiation of proceedings. Proceedings for amending this chapter
shall be initiated by at least one of the following three methods:
         (a)   By petition of an owner or owners of property which is proposed
to be rezoned or for which district regulation changes are proposed;
         (b)   By recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission; and/or
         (c)   By action of the Council.
   (B)   Pre-application meeting. A pre-application meeting pursuant to §
154.065(D) is required for property owners initiating proceedings prior to
submitting a Zoning Amendment application.
   (C)   Submittal.
      (1)   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with required exhibits with the Zoning Administrator and shall pay a filing fee
as established by the Council.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application and, within
15 business days after receiving the application, shall notify the applicant in
writing if the application is not complete and what additional information is
required.
      (3)   Criteria for complete submittal. No submittal for rezoning or an
amendment to district regulations initiated by property owners shall be
considered complete without receipt of the following:
         (a)   A completed application form;
         (b)   Evidence of ownership or enforceable option on the property;
         (c)   A description of the proposed future use of the site or
amendment to this chapter;
         (d)   A narrative by the applicant describing how the requested
rezoning/amendment complies with the guidance of the comprehensive plan;
         (e)   If the amendment is related to a development, a preliminary
building and site plan is required; and
         (f)   Any additional information deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator to determine the suitability of the particular site for the
proposed use.
   (D)   Review process.
      (1)   Application distributed. When the Zoning Administrator determines
the application to be complete, the Zoning Administrator shall distribute the
application and exhibits to any applicable city staff, officials and other
government agencies for review and comment.
      (2)   Hearing on application.
         (a)   When the Zoning Administrator determines the application to be
complete, the Zoning Administrator shall set the date for a public hearing and
shall give all required notice in compliance with §
154.065(J).
         (b)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold the public hearing
and may table the application if necessary to study the application to
determine possible adverse effects of the proposed zoning amendment and
determine what additional requirements may be necessary to reduce any adverse
effects.
      (3)   Review and decision.
         (a)   Upon the conclusion of the public hearing, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall recommend to the City Council either approval of the
Rezoning/Zoning Amendment or denial of the Zoning Amendment.
         (b)   The Council shall act upon the application within 30 days after
receiving the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
            1.   A copy of the proposed ordinance shall be available for public
view at the City Hall and posted online for public view at least ten days prior
to the City Council meeting.
            2.   Amendments to this chapter shall be by passage upon a simple
majority vote of the City Council.
         (c)   The city shall take action to approve or deny the application
within 60 days of receiving a completed application, as detailed within §
154.065(I).
         (d)   No resubmittal of an application for a zoning amendment shall be
considered by the city within a one-year period following a denial of the
request, except as provided within §
154.065(L).
      (4)   Criteria for review.
         (a)   In making the determination, whether or not the zoning ordinance
is to be amended, the City Council shall consider:
            1.   The compliance of the zoning amendment with the overall
guidance of the comprehensive plan; and
            2.   The effect the zoning district as a whole would have on the
site and adjacent sites.
         (b)   In making its determination, the City Council shall not utilize
the preliminary building and site plan as reasoning to approve or deny the
zoning amendment; furthermore, the approval or denial of a zoning amendment
shall not be considered action taken nor approval given of a preliminary
building and site plan.
   (E)   Issuance of decision.
      (1)   Publishing and recording.
         (a)   A copy of the amended ordinance, or a summary publication as may
be approved, shall be published in the local newspaper.
         (b)   The City Clerk shall maintain a record of all ordinances and
amended ordinances related to this Title.
            1.   The ordinances shall be reflected in online codification,
which may be updated periodically.
            2.   Copies of ordinances which have been adopted but not yet
reflected in online codification shall be listed on the city’s website and
available at City Hall for public viewing.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall record any changes to the
Official Zoning Map, which may be updated online periodically.
            1.   A list of properties approved for rezoning but not yet
reflected in the online copy of the Official Zoning Map shall be maintained by
the Zoning Administrator and available at City Hall for public viewing.
            2.   The city shall maintain a record of all amendments to the
zoning map for specific properties within a file for that specific property. A
record of applications which were not approved shall also be maintained for
record keeping purposes.
      (2)   Effect of approval. The approved zoning amendment shall be in
effect on the publication date of the ordinance in the local newspaper, unless
otherwise noted within the ordinance language.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.070 ESTABLISHMENT OF A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD).
   (A)   Applicability. The establishment of a planned unit development (PUD)
provides design flexibility to promote creative and efficient use of land.
Planned unit development provisions are also intended to create public and
private benefit by allowing improved site design; allowing developments on
multiple lots to function as one coordinated site; facilitating protection of
natural features; allowing flexibility from this chapter for unique
developments; and ensuring coordination of phased development.
   (B)   Pre-application meeting.
      (1)   A pre-application meeting pursuant to §
154.065(D) is required prior to submitting a preliminary PUD plan application.
      (2)   During the pre-application meeting, the Zoning Administrator will
determine if the proposed project is eligible for concurrent review of the
preliminary and final PUD plans.
      (3)   Applicants may choose to use the concept plan process identified in
§
154.065 through
153.067 to solicit input from the Planning and Zoning Commission and City
Council prior to submitting a preliminary PUD plan.
   (C)   Preliminary PUD plan.
      (1)   Submittal. The preliminary PUD plan shall show:
         (a)   For applications that involve the subdivision of land, requiring
a preliminary plat, the two applications of a preliminary plat and a
preliminary PUD plan may be combined; a complete submittal shall consist of all
materials listed within §
153.082(C) and also shall include the following:
            1.   Preliminary PUD plan showing layout of entire proposed PUD,
including any proposed phasing;
            2.   Building plan showing proposed building locations, lot area,
building setbacks, building height; and
            3.   Description of any additional flexibility, including but not
limited to: private streets and other common areas, uses and development
standards.
         (b)   For applications that do not require a concurrent preliminary
plat, the preliminary PUD plan submittal shall include the following:
            1.   Preliminary PUD plan showing layout of entire proposed PUD,
including any proposed phasing;
            2.   Building plan showing proposed building locations, lot area,
building setbacks, building height;
            3.   Description of any additional flexibility, including but not
limited to: private streets and other common areas, uses and development
standards; and
            4.   Preliminary civil plans:
               a.   Grading plan and details, erosion control plan and seeding
plan;
               b.   Sanitary and watermain plan;
               c.   Storm sewer schedule and construction plan;
               d.   Draintile plan (if applicable);
               e.   Street construction plan;
               f.   Lighting and signage plan;
               g.   Street and utility details; and
               h.   Landscaping and open space plan.
      (2)   Review process.
         (a)   Application distributed. When the Zoning Administrator
determines the application to be complete, the Zoning Administrator shall
distribute the application and exhibits to any applicable city staff, officials
and other government agencies for review and comment.
         (b)   Hearing on application.
            1.   When the Zoning Administrator determines the application to be
complete, the Zoning Administrator shall set the date for a public hearing and
shall give all required notice in compliance with §
154.065(J); and
            2.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold the public
hearing and may table the application if necessary to study the application to
determine possible adverse effects of the proposed PUD and determine what
additional requirements may be necessary to reduce any adverse effects.
         (c)   Review and decision of the preliminary PUD plan.
            1.   Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall
recommend approval, conditional approval, or denial of the preliminary PUD plan
and shall transmit the plan and application along with its recommendations to
the City Council;
            2.   Upon receiving a recommendation from the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the City Council shall review and approve, approve conditionally or
deny the preliminary PUD plan application.
            3.   The City Council shall state, in writing, its findings for
approval or denial, as well as any conditions of approval;
            4.   Following the decision by the City Council, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the applicant of the Council’s action and reasons
thereof; and
            5.   Criteria for review. The City Council shall base its actions
regarding a Preliminary PUD Plan upon the following criteria:
               a.   Compatibility of the PUD with the standards, purposes and
intent of this chapter;
               b.   Consistency of the PUD with the comprehensive plan’s
vision, mission, values and policies;
               c.   The impact of the plan on the neighborhood in which it is
to be located;
               d.   The adequacy of internal site organization, uses,
densities, circulation, parking facilities, public facilities, recreational
areas, open spaces, sidewalks, trails, buffering and landscaping; and
               e.   Other factors as the city deems relevant.
         (d)   Effect of preliminary PUD plan decision.
            1.   Approval of the preliminary PUD plan by the Council shall
constitute rezoning of the property to PUD and conceptual approval of the
elements of the plan. While approval of the preliminary PUD plan shall
establish the basic right of use for the area in conformity with the plan as
approved, such plan shall be conditioned upon approval of a final PUD plan and
shall not make permissible any of the uses as proposed until a final PUD plan
is submitted and approved for all or a portion of the preliminary PUD plan; and
            2.   The applicant shall submit the final PUD plan to the City
Council within one year after the approval of the preliminary PUD plan or
approval of the preliminary PUD plan shall be considered void unless an
extension is requested in writing by the applicant and granted by the City
Council.
         (e)   Publishing and recording of rezoning and text amendment.
            1.   A copy of the amended ordinance, or a summary publication as
may be approved, shall be published in the local newspaper;
            2.   The City Clerk shall maintain a record of all ordinances and
amended ordinances related to this Title;
               a.   The ordinances shall be reflected in online codification,
which may be updated periodically;
               b.   Copies of ordinances which have been adopted but not yet
reflected in online codification shall be listed on the city’s website and
available at City Hall for public viewing.
            3.   The Zoning Administrator shall record any changes to the
Official Zoning Map, which may be updated online periodically.
               a.   A list of properties approved for rezoning but not yet
reflected in the online copy of the Official Zoning Map shall be maintained by
the Zoning Administrator and available at City Hall for public viewing; and
               b.   The city shall maintain a record of all amendments to the
zoning map for specific properties within a file for that specific property. A
record of applications which were not approved shall also be maintained for
record keeping purposes.
         (f)   Effect of approval. The approved rezoning and text amendment
shall be in effect on the publication date of the ordinance in the local
newspaper, unless otherwise noted within the ordinance language.
   (D)   Final PUD plan.
      (1)   Applicability.
         (a)   An approved preliminary PUD plan shall be on file with the city
prior to applying for a final PUD plan that substantially conforms to the
preliminary PUD plan. Substantial conformance means:
            1.   The buildings, parking areas and roads are in essentially the
same location as previously approved;
            2.   Open space has not been decreased or altered significantly
from its original design or use;
            3.   The number of dwelling units, if any, has not increased or
decreased by more than five percent;
            4.   The floor area of nonresidential areas has not been increased
or decreased by more than five percent;
            5.   No building has been increased in the number of floors; and
            6.   Lot coverage of any individual building has not been increased
or decreased by more than ten percent.
         (b)   Any final PUD plan that does not meet the criteria of
substantial conformance with the preliminary PUD plan listed in §
154.070(D)(1)(a) shall be considered a major amendment and shall require the
resubmittal of a preliminary PUD plan application, following the procedures of
§
154.070(C).
         (c)   The final PUD plan may, if permitted by the City Council,
constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary PUD plan which the
applicant proposes to record at the time.
      (2)   Submittal. A complete final PUD plan application shall contain
finalized versions of all preliminary PUD plan items listed in §
154.070 (C)(2), meeting all additional conditions of approval of the City
Council and within substantial compliance of the approved preliminary PUD plan
listed in §
154.070 (D)(1)(a).
      (3)   Review process and decision.
         (a)   Application distributed. When the Zoning Administrator
determines the application to be complete, the Zoning Administrator shall
distribute the application and exhibits to any applicable city staff, officials
and other government agencies for review and comment.
         (b)   Review and decision.
            1.   The City Council shall review and approve, approve
conditionally or deny the final plan application;
            2.   The City Council shall state, in writing, its findings for
approval or denial, as well as any conditions of approval; and
            3.   Following the decision by the City Council, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the applicant of the Council’s action and reasons
thereof.
         (c)   Recording of final PUD plan.
            1.   No building permit shall be issued or development shall occur
on land for which a PUD district has been approved which does not conform to
the approved final PUD plan;
            2.   After the final PUD plan has been approved by the City
Council, all conditions of approval have been met, and required improvements
are either installed or a contract and sureties ensuring their installation is
filed, the applicant shall file the final PUD plan with the County Recorder.
Recording of the final PUD pan and all associated conditions of approval must
be completed within one year of final approval. Failure to do so shall result
in the requiring of a new preliminary PUD plan which must be reviewed in
accordance with the procedure set out in this subchapter to ensure compliance
with any new requirements;
            3.   If, within one year following City Council approval of the
final PUD plan, no building permits have been obtained or, if within one year
after the issuance of building permits, no construction has commenced on the
subject property approved for the PUD District, the zoning for the parcel(s)
shall revert back to the original zoning and the PUD designation shall be
declared null and void; and
            4.   Prior to the expiration of the initial one year period, the
City Council may upon request of the property owner and by resolution and
findings of fact, extend the above noted time frame for a period not to exceed
an additional one year.
   (E)   Amendment. Proposed development of land for which a PUD has been
approved or modifications to existing project which do not conform to the
approved final PUD plan shall be processed as an amendment.
      (1)   Any major amendment, as described in §
154.070(D)(1)(b), shall require the resubmittal of a preliminary PUD plan and
require the same notice and hearing procedures specified in §
154.070(C).
      (2)   Minor amendments meeting the substantial conformance of §
154.070(D)(1)(a) may be reviewed and approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.071 INTERIM USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Applicability. The purpose and intent of allowing interim uses is:
      (1)   To allow a use for a temporary period of time until a permanent
location is obtained, the use terminates, or while the permanent location is
under construction;
      (2)   To allow a use that is presently judged acceptable by the City
Council, but that with anticipated development or redevelopment, will not be
acceptable in the future or will be replaced in the future by a permitted or
conditional use allowed within the respective district;
      (3)   To allow a use which is reflective of anticipated long-range change
to an area and which is in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan, provided
that said use maintains harmony and compatibility with surrounding uses and is
in keeping with the architectural character and design standards of existing
uses and development.
   (B)   Pre-application meeting. A pre-application meeting pursuant to §
154.065(D) is required prior to submitting an interim use permit application.
   (C)   Submittal. The applicant shall file their completed form in the same
manner as outlined in §
154.067(C).
   (D)   Review process. The review process shall follow that of §
154.067(D).
   (E)   Issuance of approval.
      (1)   Record keeping.
         (a)   The city shall maintain a record of all interim use permits
issued including information on the use, location and conditions imposed by the
city, time limits, review dates and such other information as may be
appropriate. A record of applications which were not approved shall also be
maintained for record keeping purposes.
      (2)   Effect of approval.
         (a)   If an interim use permit is approved or approved with additional
conditions, all future use of the land up until the termination of the interim
use permit shall comply with the terms of the permit and conditions.
         (b)   Amendment.
            1.   A property owner or applicant may request an amendment to the
conditions of an existing interim use permit by submitting a full application
for an interim use permit and going through the full procedure described in
this section.
            2.   In their review, the Planning and Zoning Commission and the
City Council shall consider the original conditions of the approved IUP and
find that the amended condition(s) are no longer relevant, are in need of
updating, or need to be removed.
   (F)   Termination of permit. An interim use permit shall terminate on the
happening of any of the following events, whichever occurs first:
      (1)   The date or event stated in the permit;
      (2)   The approval of the permit was obtained by fraud;
      (3)   Upon violation of the conditions under which the permit was issued;
      (4)   The interim use permit, over a 12 consecutive month period, is not
used, discontinued, or abandoned; or
      (5)   The property is redeveloped to a permitted or conditional use
allowed in the respective zoning district.
(Ord. 7.2-22, passed 7-13-2022)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.080 AUTHORITY AND ACTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning
Administrator or other authorized representative. The Zoning Administrator may
institute in the name of the City of Kasson any appropriate actions or
proceedings against a violator.
   (B)   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint with the city.
      (1)   Such complaint shall state fully the causes and basis thereof and
shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall record properly such complaint,
immediately investigate and take action thereon as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.081 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   For the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, zoning
violation notices shall be sent by either first class or certified mail to the
owner of the property on which the violation is taking place.
      (2)   A copy of the zoning violation notice shall be sent to the City
Administrator, City Clerk, Police Chief and City Attorney.
   (B)   The zoning violation notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A description of the violation which is taking place;
      (2)   A picture (if possible) of the violation which is taking place;
      (3)   Location and/or address of the property at which the violation is
taking place;
      (4)   Identification of the section of this chapter which is being
violated;
      (5)   Date the violation was discovered;
      (6)   Steps necessary to correct the violation; and
      (7)   Deadline by which the violation must be corrected, which is at the
discretion of the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.082 CORRECTION OF THE ZONING VIOLATION.
   Correction of the violation in the manner stipulated by the zoning notice
violation, at any point during this enforcement process, shall deem the zoning
violation notice null and void and enforcement activity shall cease.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.083 FAILURE TO CORRECT THE ZONING VIOLATION; ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   Failure to correct the zoning violation shall result in the city pursuing
enforcement action following notification to the property owner, with the city
having the authority to carry out the following enforcement remedies or
combination of remedies.
   (A)   Withhold permits. The city shall have the authority to withhold any
permits or city approvals which are necessary until the violation is corrected
to the city's satisfaction.
   (B)   Stop work order. The city shall have the authority to issue a stop
work order on the subject violation.
   (C)   Abatement. The city shall have the authority to require that the
violation be abated by completely removing or stopping the item or use which
has been identified in the zoning violation notice.
   (D)   Injunctive relief. The city shall have the authority to seek an
injunction in court to stop any violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Civil remedies. The city shall have the authority to institute
appropriate civil action to enforce the provisions of this chapter, and shall
recover reasonable court costs and attorney's fees which are incurred due to
the enforcement of the subject violation, at the discretion of the court.
   (F)   Assessment. The city shall have the authority to use the provisions of
M.S. Ch. 429, as may be amended from time to time, assess any charge against
the property benefitted, and any such assessment shall, at the time at which
taxes are certified to the Dodge County Auditor, be certified for collection in
the manner that other special assessments are so certified.
   (G)   Criminal remedies. The city shall have the authority to institute
appropriate misdemeanor criminal action for a violation of this chapter.
   (H)   Cumulative remedies. The powers and remedies of this section shall not
be individually limited and are not exclusive. The powers and remedies of this
section are cumulative and all power and remedies may apply, as well as any
other remedies allowed under state law.
   (I)   Administrative penalties. The city shall have the authority to utilize
§
10.99 of the City Code for enforcement of the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.084 REVOCATION.
   Instead of, or in addition to any of the remedies in §
154.083 failure to comply with the conditions of a conditional use permit, a
variance, or the ordinances of the city shall result in the conditional use
permit or variance being revoked by the City Council, as described in §§
154.067 and
154.068.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020; Ord. 1.1-2021, passed 2-10-2021)
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.095 BASE DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   The following zoning districts are provided in order to promote and
encourage the orderly and efficient development and use of land, buildings and
structures. The incorporated area of the city is hereby divided into the
following districts which shall be known by the following respective symbols
and names:
   (A)   D-H Development Holding District;
   (B)   R-1 Single-Family Residential District;
   (C)   R-1A Single-Family Older-Core Residential District;
   (D)   R-2 Mixed Residential District;
   (E)   R-3 Multi-Family Residential District;
   (F)   R-C Residential-Commercial Mixed Use District;
   (G)   C-1 Central Business District;
   (H)   C-2 General Commercial District;
   (I)   C-3 Highway Commercial District;
   (J)   I-1 Business Park / Light Industrial District; and
   (K)   I-2 Manufacturing / Heavy Industrial District.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.096 SPECIAL DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   In addition to the base zoning districts above, the following special
districts have been established.
   (A)   Floodplain Management Districts:
      (1)   FW Floodway District; and
      (2)   FF Flood Fringe District.
   (B)   Planned unit developments:
      (1)   PUDF Planned Unit Development Fixed District; and
      (2)   [Reserved].
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
BASE DISTRICTS
§ 154.110 PURPOSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   D-H Development Holding District. The purpose of the D-H Development
Holding District is to identify land in the outlying parts of the city that
have not yet been developed with city services or not yet subdivided in
compliance with the future land use map of the comprehensive plan. This
district is intended to allow for existing uses, including uses brought in
through annexation, to continue, but new uses will require a rezoning to
another district in compliance with the comprehensive plan.
   (B)   R-1 Single-Family Residential District. The purpose of the R-1 Single-
Family Residential District is to provide for low to moderate density dwellings
and directly related, complementary uses.
   (C)   R-1A Traditional Core Residential District. The purpose of the R-1A
Traditional Core Residential District is to provide for low to moderate density
dwellings and directly related, complementary uses. This district is
characterized by more variation in lot sizes than found in other residential
districts in the city.
   (D)   R-2 Mixed Residential District. The purpose of the R-2 Mixed
Residential District is to provide for low to medium density dwellings and
directly related, complementary uses.
   (E)   R-3 Multi-Family Residential District. The purpose of the R-3 Multi-
Family Residential District is to provide for medium to high density
residential uses and directly related, complementary uses.
   (F)   R-C Residential-Commercial Mixed Use District. The purpose of the R-
C Residential-Commercial Mixed Use District is to provide for a district which
allows both residential and commercial uses and acts as a transition district
between more intense commercial zoning districts and residential zoning
districts. Commercial uses are intended to be a lower intensity than nearby
commercial zoning districts.
   (G)   C-1 Central Business District. The purpose of the C-1 Central Business
District is to provide for high density development for commercial and service
activities, with activity focused on Main Street, gaining economic advantage
from a concentration of complementary uses and drawing from and serving
customers from the community and surrounding area.
   (H)   C-2 General Commercial District. The purpose of the C-2 General
Commercial District is to provide for commercial and service activities
oriented towards and concentrated along Highway 57, drawing from and serving
customers from the community and surrounding area.
   (I)   C-3 Highway Commercial District. The purpose of the C-3 Highway
Commercial District is to provide for medium to high intensity retail or
service activities which provide goods and services to the community as well as
regional motor vehicle traffic. The districts should be located in areas well
served by arterial roadways.
   (J)   I-1 Business Park / Light Industrial District. The purpose of the I-
1 District is provide locations for small and large scale business park uses as
well as light industrial and light manufacturing uses which are compatible and
may benefit from co-location with other similar uses.
   (K)   I-2 Manufacturing / Heavy Industrial District. The purpose of the I-
2 Manufacturing/Heavy Industrial District is to provide for the development of
manufacturing and industrial uses which may not be appropriate in other
locations due to noise, dust, vibration, traffic, outdoor storage or other
impacts which may not be compatible with other uses.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.111 USES.
   (A)   Permitted uses (P). Uses listed in §
154.066 and §
154.067 with a “P” symbol are permitted by-right in the district in which they
are listed.
   (B)   Uses permitted with standards (PS). Uses listed in §
154.066 and §
154.067 with a “PS” symbol are permitted provided compliance with the use-
specific standards and requirements in §§
154.175 through
154.178, §§
154.190 through
154.194, §§
154.205 through
154.208, §§
154.220 through
154.222, §
154.235, §
154.245 and §§
154.255 through
154.257.
   (C)   Uses permitted by conditional use permit (CUP). Uses listed in §
154.066 and §
154.067 with a “CUP” symbol require a conditional use permit; refer to §
154.067 for CUP requirements and §§
154.175 to
154.178 for use specific standards.
   (D)   Uses not provided for within zoning districts. For those uses not
specifically noted, the Zoning Administrator shall make a determination as to
whether the proposed use is included in the definition of a listed use or is so
consistent with the size, scale, operating characteristics and external impacts
of a listed use that it should be treated as the same use.
      (1)   Where a question arises in the interpretation of the Zoning
Administrator, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall make a recommendation
to the City Council, which shall make the final determination.
      (2)   The city shall maintain a record of all uses the City Council
determines as allowed as being substantially similar to named uses and will
work to incorporate those uses into either the list or definition of uses.
      (3)   If it is determined that a proposed use is not substantially
similar to an allowed use, the applicant may seek an amendment to the text of
the zoning code to name the use as an allowed use within the zoning district.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.112 PRINCIPAL USES TABLE.
              R-1  R- 1A R-2  R-3  R-C  C-1  C-2  C-3  I-1  I-2  Use Standards
RESIDENTIAL
Household Living
Dwelling,
Single- Family P    P             P                         
Detached
Manufactured   PS   PS            PS                       §
Home                                                              154.176(A)
Dwelling,
Single- Family
Detached       CUP  PS    PS   PS   PS                       §
Conversion                                                        154.176(B)
Two, Three or
Four Unit
Dwelling, Two  PS   PS    P    P    P                        §
Unit (Duplex)                                                     154.176(C)
Dwelling,
Three to Four  CUP  CU P  P    P    P                        §
Unit (Triplex,                                                    154.176(C)
Quadraplex)
Dwelling,
Single- Family CUP  CU P  P    P    P                        §
Attached (2 -                                                     154.176(C)
4 units)
Dwelling,
Single- Family CUP  CU P  PS   P    P                        §
Attached (5+                                                      154.176(D)
units)
Dwelling,                                                         §
Multi- Family           CU P P    CUP                      154.176(E)
5 - 24 units
Dwelling,                                                         §
Multi- Family               PS   CUP                      154.176(E)
25+ Units
Dwelling, 2nd
Floor+
Apartments                      PS   PS   PS               §
(Above                                                            154.176(F)
nonresidential
ground floor)
Manufactured   CUP  CU P  CU P CU P CUP                      §
Home Park                                                         154.176(G)
Live/Work Unit                  PS   PS   PS               §
                                                                  154.176(H)
Group Living
Intermediate,
Extended and                                                      §
Long-Term Care PS   PS    PS   PS   PS                       154.177(A)
Facility
(Nursing Home)
Residential
care facility,                                                    §
licensed in-   PS   PS    PS   PS   PS                       154.177(B)
home (6 or
fewer persons)
Residential
care facility,                                                    §
licensed in-            CU P CU P CUP                      154.177(B)
home (7 to 16
persons)
Lodging
Bed and                                                           §
Breakfast      PS   PS    PS   PS   PS                       154.178(A)
Facilities
Lodging
services such                       P    P    P             
as hotel and
motel
Short-Term                                                        §
Vacation           CU P  CU P     CUP                      154.178(B)
Rental
PUBLIC, SOCIAL OR HEALTHCARE
Healthcare and Interment Services   
Cemeteries,
Mausoleums,
columbarium,   CU P CU P  CU P CU P CU P                     §
including                                                         154.190(A)
animal
cemeteries
Clinic,
including
medical,
dental or                       P    P    P    P             
therapeutic
(See
Professional
Services)
Funeral home   PS   PS    PS       P    P    P    P            §
or mortuary                                                       154.190(B)
Hospital       CU P CU P  CU P CU P CU P     PS   PS   PS       §
                                                                  154.190(C)
Institutions
Club, lodge or
meeting place
of a non-                           P    P    P             
commercial
nature
Place of       PS   PS    PS   PS   PS                       §
worship                                                           154.191(A)
Social
assistance,
welfare or                      P    P    P    P    P         
charitable
services
Education
Child care
facilities     P    P     P    P    P    PS   PS   PS           §
serving up to                                                     154.192(A)
12 persons
Child care
facilities     CU P CU P  CU P CU P CU P CU P CU P CU P         §
serving 13+                                                       154.192(A)
persons
School,
college/       PS   PS    PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS       §
university/tra                                                    154.192(B)
de/ business
School,                                                           §
elementary or  PS   PS    PS   PS   PS   PS   PS               154.192(C)
secondary
School,                                                           §
nursery or     PS   PS    PS   PS   PS   PS   PS               154.192(D)
preschool
Recreation and Open Space         
Golf Courses/  CU P CU P  CU P CU P                         §
Country Club                                                      154.193(A)
Historic Sites P    P     P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P     
Public
recreational
facilities
including      P    P     P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P     
parks and
playgrounds,
hiking and/or
biking trails
Temporary
Outdoor                                     CU P CU P      
Entertainment
Wildlife,
forest and
wetland        P    P     P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P     
preserves or
management
areas
Government Services
Essential      P    P     P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P     
Services
Government
vehicle and
equipment                                   P    P         
garages and
offices
Municipal,
county, state
or federal     CU P CU P  CU P CU P PS   P    P    P    P    P    §
administrative                                                    154.194(A)
or services
building
COMMERCIAL
Food or Beverage Services
Bar/Tavern                          P    P    P             
Brewpub                             P    P    P             
Café, Coffee                       P    P    P             
Shop
Off-Sale                            PS   PS   PS           §
Liquor                                                            154.205(A)
Restaurant                          P    P    P             
Restaurant
with drive-                     CU P CU P PS   PS           §
through or                                                        154.205(B)
drive-in
Other Services   
Animal/Pet                          PS   PS   PS   PS       §
Services                                                          154.206(A)
Banks,
Finance,
Insurance and                   P    P    P    P             
Real Estate
Services
Building                            P    P    P    P         
Services
Business                        P    P    P    P    P         
Services
Equipment                           P    P    P    P         
Services
Kennel/Animal                           CU P CU P CU P CU P §
Boarding                                                          154.206(B)
Personal                            P    P    P             
Services
Professional                    P    P    P    P    P         
Services
Services
otherwise                                                         §
allowed with                    CU P CU P PS   PS           154.206(B)
drive- through
or drive-in
Retail
Convenience                         P    P    P             
Store
Food Retail
(Grocery                            P    P    P             
Store)
General Retail                      P    P    P             
Shopping                                CU P P            §
Center                                                            154.207(A)
Wholesale                                   P    P    P     
Retail
Arts and Entertainment                                  
Art Gallery/                    P    P    P    P             
Museum
Commercial
recreational                        P    P    P    P         
facility,
indoor
Commercial
recreational                                CU P CU P CU P §
facility,                                                         154.208(A)
outdoor
INDUSTRY AND MANUFACTURING
Small Production/ Commercial Production   
Buildings used
for Research
and Testing                                 P    P    P     
Laboratories
(interior
only)
Brewery,                                                          §
winery or                           PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   154.220(A)
distillery
Makerspace                      PS   P    P        PS       §
(studio)                                                          154.220(B)
Printing                                P    P    P    P     
Rental
Equipment                                   P    P         
(stored
indoors)
Rental Storage
Units (self-                                CU P P        §
storage                                                           154.220(C)
facility)
Indoor Industrial Activity
Grain
Elevators;
Fertilizer                                          CU P §
manufacturing,                                                    154.221
storage and
sales
Manufacturing,                                      P     
heavy
Manufacturing,                                  P    P     
light
Warehouse/
distributi on                                   P    P     
facility
Outdoor Industrial Activity
Automobile
Wrecking Yard/                                                    §
Scrap or                                            CU P 154.222(A)
salvage
storage yard
Contractor
Yard                                                              §
(landscaping,                                   PS   PS   154.222(B)
construction,
etc.)
Outside
storage,                                        PS   PS   §
manufacturing                                                     154.222(C)
and sales area
AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES
Community                                           CU P §
Solar Farm                                                        154.235(A)
Nursery/
Greenhouse                              P    P    P         
(with retail
sales)
Short wave
towers, radio
and TV towers,
and commercial                              CU P CU P CU P §
radio and                                                         154.235(B)
television
towers and
transmitters
Wind Energy                                                       §
Conversion                                          CU P 154.235(C)
Systems
Wireless                                                          §
Communications CU P CU P  CU P CU P CU P CU P CU P CU P CU P CU P 154.235(D)
Facilities
Transportation
Automobile
Fuel Station/                           PS   PS   PS   PS   §
Service                                                           154.245(A)
Station
Auto Repair,                                    CU P PS   §
Major                                                             154.245(B)
Auto Repair,                            P    P    P    P     
Minor
Automobile                              P    P             
Sales
Car Washes                              PS   PS   PS   PS   §
                                                                  154.245(C)
Parking Lot,
Garage, Ramp                                                      §
or Structure                            CU P             154.245(D)
as Principal
Use
Public                                                            §
Transportation                              CU P         154.245(E)
Terminals
Truck, boat
and trailer                                                       §
and implement                               PS   P        154.245(B)
sales and
servicing
                                                                  §
Truck Terminal                              CU P CU P CU P 154.245(A) -
                                                                  (D)
P = Permitted   PS=Permitted with Standards   CUP=Conditional Use Permit      
Blank=Prohibited
 
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020; Ord. 1.2-2021, passed 2-10-2021; Ord. 6.2-2021,
passed 6-23-2021)
§ 154.113 ACCESSORY USES TABLE.
 R-1 R- 1A R-2 R-3 R- C C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 Use Standards
               R-1  R- 1A R-2  R-3  R- C C-1  C-2  C-3  I-1  I-2  Use Standards
GENERAL                                                  
ACCESSORY USES
Accessory                                                         §
parking lot,                CU P CU P CU P CU P CU P CU P CU P 154.255(A)
off-site
Accessory                                                         §
parking lot,   PS   PS    PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   154.255(A)
on-site
Accessory      PS   PS    PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   §
structure                                                         154.255(B)
Satellite dish PS   PS    PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   §
                                                                  154.255(D)
Small-scale
wind energy    PS   PS    PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   §
generation                                                        154.255(C)
system
Solar Energy                                                      §
System,        PS   PS    PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   154.255(E)
Accessory
Swimming
pools, tennis
courts and                                                        §
other          PS   PS    PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS       154.255(F)
individual
recreational
facilities
ACCESSORY TO
RESIDENTIAL                                              
USES
Accessory      PS   PS    PS       PS                       §
dwelling unit                                                     154.256(A)
Child care
facility,                                                         §
licensed (12   PS   PS    PS   PS   PS                       154.256(B)
or fewer
persons)
Child care
facility,      CU P CU P  CU P CU P CU P                     §
licensed (13                                                      154.256(B)
to 16 persons)
Home           PS   PS    PS   PS   PS   PS                   §
Occupation                                                        154.256(C)
Home Business  CU P CU P  CU P CU P CU P CU P                 §
                                                                  154.256(C)
Outside
parking or
seasonal                                                          §
storage of     PS   PS    PS   PS                           154.256(D)
recreational
travel
vehicles
Short-term
vacation       PS   PS    PS       PS   PS                   § 154.256(E)
rental
ACCESSORY TO
NONRESIDENTIAL                                           
USES
Community      P    P     P    P    P                         
garden
Gift shop
accessory to   PS   PS    PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   PS   § 154.257(A)
an otherwise
allowed us
Open air                            PS   PS   PS           § 154.257(B)
display areas
Temporary
Stand for sale
of
agricultural
products (tree                          PS   PS   PS   PS   § 154.257(C)
lot, farm
stand,
seasonal
sales, etc.)
P = Permitted      PS=Permitted with Standards      CUP=Conditional Use
Permit       Blank=Prohibited
 
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.114 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR DEVELOPMENT HOLDING (DH) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Essential services.
      (2)   Continuance of existing uses, including expansion of structures
within setbacks. Substantial changes in existing uses or the intensification of
existing uses, such as a switch from horticulture to livestock keeping, shall
be prohibited.
      (3)   Accessory structures and uses appropriate to the existing use,
meeting the criteria of §§
154.255 through
154.257.
   (B)   Conditional uses. Public, social, and healthcare facilities, subject
to Planning and Zoning Commission review and a City Council finding that the
use(s) will not impede or otherwise conflict with the planned use of adjoining
property.
   (C)   Prohibited uses. New uses or change from existing uses shall be
prohibited without a rezoning to a district in conformance with the future land
use map of the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
LOT AND SITE DIMENSION STANDARDS
§ 154.125 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to outline minimum yard, area and
building size requirements to be provided for each zoning district.
   (B)   Buildings; distance between. In residential districts, each principal
building shall be at least 12 feet from any other principal building except as
provided for in this subchapter.
   (C)   Frost depth footings. In all zoning districts and in planned unit
developments, all structures to be used for human occupation shall be built
with continuous frost depth footings in compliance with the standards set forth
in the State Building Code, except as permitted in an approved manufactured
home park.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.126 LOT DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Nonconforming lots of record. A lot of record existing upon the
effective date of this chapter in a residential district, which does not meet
the requirements of this chapter as to area or width may be utilized for
single-family detached dwelling purposes or two-family, duplex dwelling
purposes; provided, the measurements of the area or width are within 75% of the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Lot area; reducing. No lot area shall be so reduced or diminished that
the yards or other open spaces shall be smaller than prescribed herein, nor
shall the number of dwelling units be increased in any manner except in
conformity with the area regulations herein prescribed, nor shall the area of
any lot be reduced below the minimum requirements herein established.
   (C)   Lot dimensional standards tables.
      (1)   Residential districts lot dimensional standards table.
Uses            District        Min. Lot Area  Min. Lot Width
                                               Building Line   Street Line
Single-Family   R-1, R-1A, R-C  8,000 sq. ft.  66 ft.          45 ft.
Detached
Single-Family   R-1*, R-1A*, R- 4,000 sq. ft.  40 ft. per unit 30 ft. per unit
Attached        2, R-3, R-C     per unit
                                8,000 sq. ft.
Two-Four Unit   R-1*, R-1A*, R- plus 1,750 sq. 40 ft. per unit 30 ft. per unit
Dwelling        2, R-3, R-C     ft. per unit
                                over two
                                12,000 sq. ft.
Multi-Family (5 R-2*, R-3, R-C* plus 1,250 sq. 100 ft.         70 ft.
- 24 units)                     ft. per unit
                                over five
Multi-Family    R-3, R-C*       1,500 sq. ft.  100 ft.         70 ft.
(25+ units)                     per unit
Nonresidential  R-1, R-1A, R-2, 21,000 sq. ft. 100 ft.         100 ft.
Uses            R-3
Nonresidential  R-C             10,00 sq. ft.  80 ft.          80 ft.
Uses
 
      (2)   Nonresidential districts lot dimensional standards table.
 
Uses     District Min. Lot Area  Min. Lot Width
                                 Building Line Street Line
All Uses C-1      5,000 sq. ft.  N/A           50 ft.
All Uses C-2      7,500 sq. ft.  N/A           50 ft.
All Uses C-3      10,000 sq. ft. N/A           50 ft.
All Uses I-1      20,000 sq. ft. N/A           75 ft.
All Uses I-2      25,000 sq. ft. N/A           100 ft.
 
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.127 SITE DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lots fronting more than one street. Lots fronting more than one street
shall maintain a yard on each street conforming to the requirements for front
yard setbacks; side yard setbacks shall be maintained from the remaining lot
lines, except when a lot line is adjacent to an alley from which rear yard
setbacks shall be maintained.
   (B)   Yards.
      (1)   No lot, yard or other open space shall be reduced in area or
dimension so as to make the lot, yard or open space less than the minimum
required by this chapter. If the existing yard or other open space is less than
the minimum required it shall not be further reduced.
      (2)   The minimum yard setback distances in feet as indicated in §
154.127(D) shall be measured from the appropriate lot line.
      (3)   Yard encroachments. The following shall not be considered as
encroachments into required yard setback areas:
         (a)   Chimneys, flues, belt courses, headers, sills, pilasters,
lintels, ornamental features, cornices, eaves, gutters, steps, stoops, bay
windows and the like, provided they do not project from the structure more than
four feet;
         (b)   Any of the following built on grade: terraces, decks, patios and
similar appurtenances;
         (c)   Front yard exception: where a structure will be developed
adjacent to properties with existing structures, the front yard setback shall
be the average setback of existing structures on that block; and
         (d)   Fences, as specified in §
154.312.
   (C)   Building height.
      (1)   Measuring building height. For the purpose of this chapter,
building height shall be determined by the vertical distance from finished
grade to the top of the highest roof beams on a flat or shed roof, the deck
level on a mansard roof and the average distance between the eaves and the
ridge level for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
      (2)   Height limitation exemptions. The following structures are exempted
from the height regulations of this chapter when they are associated with a
permitted use or a conditional use granted by permit.
         (a)   Chimneys and flues;
         (b)   Cooling towers;
         (c)   Elevator bulk head;
         (d)   Fire towers;
         (e)   Grain elevators and silos;
         (f)   Stacks;
         (g)   Water towers;
         (h)   Pumping towers;
         (i)   Church spires;
         (j)   Clock or bell towers;
         (k)   Monuments;
         (l)   Cupolas and domes which do not contain useable space;
         (m)   Steeples;
         (n)   Flagpoles;
         (o)   Elevator penthouses;
         (p)   Sports press boxes of more than one story; and
         (q)   Mechanical and electrical appurtenances.
      (3)   Additional building height requirements for allowed nonresidential
uses in R1, R1-A, R-2, R-3, and R-C districts: Public, social, and healthcare
buildings, may be erected to a height of 55 feet when set back from all lot
lines not less the required yard dimension plus one foot for each foot the
building exceeds 35 feet in height.
   (D)   Site dimensional standards tables.
      (1)   D-H District site dimensional standards table.
 
                       Min. Setbacks                                Max.
District Uses                                         Max. Building Impervious
                       Front Yard Rear Yard Side Yard Height        Surface

D-H      Existing Uses 25 ft.     50 ft.    25 ft.    35 ft./2.5    35%
                                                      stories
 
      (2)   Residential districts site dimensional standards table.
                        Min. Setbacks                                 Max.
District Uses           Front Rear Side   Max. Building Height        Impervious
                        Yard  Yard Yard                               Surface

                                   6.5
                                   ft. (0
         Dwellings, one 20    25   ft.    35 ft./2.5 stories
         to four units  ft.   ft.  for
R-1                                shared                             40%
                                   wall)
                        20    45          25 ft./2.5 stories (see §
         Nonresidential ft.   ft.  12 ft. 154.127(C)
                                          (2) for exceptions)
                                   6.5
                                   ft. (0
         Dwellings, one 20    25   ft.    35 ft./2.5 stories
         to four units  ft.   ft.  for
R-1A                               shared                             45%
                                   wall)
                        15    35          25 ft./2.5 stories (see §
         Nonresidential ft.   ft.  12 ft. 154.127(C)
                                          (2) for exceptions)
                                   6.5
                                   ft. (0
         Dwellings, two 20    25   ft.
         to four units  ft.   ft.  for
                                   shared 35 ft./2.5 stories
                                  wall)                               
R-2      Dwellings,     25    25                                      50%
         five plus      ft.   ft.  8 ft.
         units
                        25    45          35 ft./2.5 stories (see §
         Nonresidential ft.   ft.  12 ft. 154.127(C)
                                          (2) for exceptions)
Front    Rear Yard      Side Yard
Yard
                                   6.5
                                   ft. (0
         Dwellings, two 20    25   ft.
         to four units  ft.   ft.  for
                                   shared 45 ft./3.5 stories
R-3                                wall)                               
         Dwellings,     25    25                                      55%
         five plus      ft.   ft.  8 ft.
         units
                        25    45          35 ft./2.5 stories (see §
         Nonresidential ft.   ft.  12 ft. 154.127(C) (2) for
                                          exceptions)
                                   6.5
                                   ft. (0
         Dwellings, one 20    25   ft.
         to four units  ft.   ft.  for
                                   shared 35 ft./2.5 stories
                                  wall)                               
R-C      Dwellings,     25    25                                      50%
         five plus      ft.   ft.  8 ft.
         units
                        20    35          35 ft./2.5 stories (see §
         Nonresidential ft.   ft.  12 ft. 154.127(C) (2) for
                                          exceptions)
 
      (3)   Nonresidential districts site dimensional standards table.
 
         Min. Setbacks                                           Max.
District                                           Max. Building Impervious
         Street Yard Rear Yard      Side Yard      Height        Surface

                     0 ft. (30 ft.  0 ft. (30 ft.  35 ft./2.5
C-1      0 ft.       when adjacent  when adjacent  stories       N/A
                     to residential to residential  
                     district)      district)
                     10 ft. (30 ft. 6.5 ft. (30
                     when adjacent  ft. when       35 ft./2.5
C-2      10 ft.      to residential adjacent to    stories       N/A
                     district)      residential     
                                    district)
                     25 ft. (30 ft. 10 ft. (30 ft.
C-3      25 ft.      when adjacent  when adjacent  35 ft./2.5    N/A
                     to residential to residential stories
                     district)      district)
                     35 ft. (40 ft. 20 ft. (40 ft.
I-1      30 ft.      when adjacent  when adjacent  45 ft.        N/A
                     to residential to residential
                     district)      district)
                                    20 ft. (40 ft.
I-2      75 ft.      50 ft.         when adjacent  60 ft.        N/A
                                    to residential
                                    district)
 
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT DISTRICTS
§ 154.140 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. This floodplain subchapter is adopted
pursuant to the authorization and policies contained in M.S. Ch. 103F;
Minnesota Rules parts 6120.5000 to 6120.6200; the rules and regulations of the
National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) in C.F.R., Title 44, § 59 to 78; and
the planning and zoning enabling legislation in M.S. Ch. 462.
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   This subchapter regulates development in the flood hazard areas of
the city. These flood hazard areas are subject to periodic inundation, which
may result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption
of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for
flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base. It is the purpose
of this subchapter to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare by
minimizing these losses and disruptions.
      (2)   This subchapter is adopted in the public interest to promote sound
land use practices, and floodplains are a land resource to be developed in a
manner which will result in minimum loss of life and threat to health, and
reduction of private and public economic loss caused by flooding.
      (3)   This subchapter is adopted to maintain eligibility in the National
Flood Insurance Program.
      (4)   This subchapter is also intended to preserve the natural
characteristics and functions of watercourses and floodplains in order to
moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil
erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development.
   (C)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
subchapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
other private agreements. The standards in this subchapter take precedence over
any less restrictive, conflicting local laws, ordinances, or codes. All other
ordinances inconsistent with this subchapter are hereby repealed to the extent
of the inconsistency only.
   (D)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This subchapter does not imply
that areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. Not all flood risk is
mapped. Larger floods do occur and the flood height may be increased by man-
made or natural causes, such as ice jams or bridge openings restricted by
debris. This subchapter does not create liability on the part of the city or
its officers or employees for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this subchapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 8.1-24, passed 8-28-2024)
§ 154.141 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined, words or phrases used in this subchapter must
be interpreted according to common usage and so as to give this subchapter its
most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure, as defined in this subchapter, that is on
the same parcel of property as, and is incidental to, the principal structure
or use; an accessory structure specifically excludes structures used for human
habitation.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. BASE FLOOD is synonymous with the term REGIONAL FLOOD used in
Minnesota Rules part 6120.5000.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the base flood, regional flood,
or 1% annual chance flood. The term BASE FLOOD ELEVATION is used in the Flood
Insurance Study.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of the depth of
excavation below ground level.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct flowing water either continuously
or periodically.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A land use or development that would not be appropriate
generally, but may be allowed with appropriate restrictions upon a finding that
certain conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist, the use or
development conforms to the comprehensive land use plan of the community, and
the use is compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   CRITICAL FACILITIES. Buildings and structures that contain essential
facilities and services necessary for emergency response and recovery, or that
pose a substantial risk to the public in the event of failure, disruption of
function, or damage by flooding. Specifically, this includes facilities
identified as Flood Design Class 4 in ASCE 24-14, Flood Resistant Design and
Construction, as amended. Examples include health care facilities, facilities
required for emergency response, power generating stations, communications
towers, or electrical substations.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
   FARM FENCE. An open type of fence of posts and horizontally run wire,
further specified in M.S. § 344.02, Subd. 1(a-d).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A temporary rise in the stream flow or water surface elevation from
any source that results in the inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the 1% annual chance floodplain located outside
of the floodway. This district shall be extended laterally to the 0.2% annual
chance floodplain, where mapped.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and
the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made
available digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The study referenced in §
154.142(B), which is an examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards, and if appropriate, corresponding surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation, and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOODPLAIN. The beds, channel and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse, or other source which have been or hereafter may be inundated by
the base flood.
   FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding,
primarily for the reduction or elimination of flood damages.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which must be reserved to carry or
store the base flood discharge without cumulatively increasing the water
surface elevation more than one-half foot.
   GENERAL FLOODPLAIN. Those floodplains designated on the Flood Insurance Rate
Maps referenced in §
154.142(B), but that do not have a delineated floodway.
   LIGHT DUTY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle that has all three of the following:
      (1)   Eight thousand five hundred pounds gross vehicle weight rating or
less;
      (2)   Vehicle curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less; and
      (3)   Basic vehicle frontal area less than 45 square feet.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of C.F.R., Title 44, § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of an adopted floodplain management regulation,
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. The main building or other structure on a lot that is
utilized for the property’s principal use.
   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by a natural or man-made obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge crossings
would most typically constitute a reach.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. Those
vehicles not meeting this definition shall be considered a structure for the
purposes of this subchapter. For the purposes of this subchapter, the term
recreational vehicle is synonymous with the term TRAVEL TRAILER/TRAVEL VEHICLE.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (RFPE). An elevation that is one foot
above the elevation of the base flood plus any increases in the water surface
elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway. These increases in water surface elevations are
typically identified in the Floodway Data Tables, found in the Flood Insurance
Study.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   STAGE INCREASE. Any increase in the water surface elevation during the 1%
annual chance flood caused by encroachments on the floodplain.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor
does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such
as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that
is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home. Recreational
vehicles not considered travel ready, as detailed in § 154.149(B)(2) shall also
be considered a structure for the purposes of this subchapter.
   SUBDIVISION. Land that has been divided for the purpose of sale, rent, or
lease, including planned unit developments.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the START OF CONSTRUCTION of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred SUBSTANTIAL
DAMAGE, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a HISTORIC STRUCTURE, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
HISTORIC STRUCTURE. For the purpose of this subchapter, HISTORIC STRUCTURE is
defined in C.F.R., Title 44, § 59.1.
   VARIANCE. The same as that defined in C.F.R., Title 44, § 59.1 and M.S. §
462.357, Subd. 6(2).
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently in a definitive direction. The term applies to either natural
or artificially constructed channels.
(Ord. 8.1-24, passed 8-28-2024)
§ 154.142 JURISDICTION AND DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Lands to which subchapter applies. This subchapter applies to all
lands within the jurisdiction of the city within the boundaries of the
Floodway, Flood Fringe and General Floodplain Districts.
      (1)   The Floodway, Flood Fringe or General Floodplain Districts are
overlay districts. The standards imposed in the overlay districts are in
addition to any other requirements. In case of a conflict, the more restrictive
standards will apply.
      (2)   Where a conflict exists between the floodplain limits illustrated
on the official floodplain maps and actual field conditions (as illustrated in
Figure 1), the base flood elevation (BFE) shall be the governing factor in
locating the outer boundaries of the 1% annual chance floodplain.
Figure 1: The mapped floodplain may not always align with on-the-ground contour
elevations.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7083e42a0cff682d9f24321a16796f23eeca7a06/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2362.jpg]
      (3)    Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries will be
given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Planning Commission
and to submit technical evidence.
   (B)     Incorporation of maps by reference. The following maps together with
all attached material are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part
of the official zoning map and this subchapter. The attached material includes
the Flood Insurance Study for Dodge County, Minnesota, and Incorporated Areas,
dated September 26, 2024, and the Flood Insurance Rate Map panels 27039C0167C,
27039C0169C, 27039C0186C, 27039C0188C, and 27039C0200C, dated September 26,
2024, all prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. These materials
are on file at City Hall.
   (C)   Districts.
      (1)   Floodway District. Those areas within Zone AE delineated within
floodway areas as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps referenced in division
(B).
      (2)   Flood Fringe District. Those areas within Zone AE located outside
of the delineated floodway, as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps
referenced in division (B). This district shall be extended laterally to the
0.2% annual chance floodplain, where mapped.
      (3)   General Floodplain District. Those areas within Zone A that do not
have a floodway delineated as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps referenced
in division (B).
   (D)   Annexations. The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels referenced in
division (B) may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the corporate
boundaries of the city at the time of adoption of this subchapter. If any of
these floodplain land areas are annexed into the city after the date of
adoption of this subchapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands will be subject
to the provisions of this subchapter immediately upon the date of annexation.
Annexations into panels not referenced in division (B) require ordinance
amendment in accordance with §
154.153.
   (E)   Municipal boundary adjustments and townships. The Flood Insurance Rate
Map panels referenced in division (B) apply county-wide. If at any point any
lands come under the jurisdiction of another local government, the following
shall apply:
      (1)   City adjustments of corporate boundaries, including but not limited
to annexations and detachments, shall shift floodplain administrative authority
of all affected lands immediately upon the date of the boundary adjustment
occurring. Cities retain jurisdiction for all incorporated lands, and the
county retains jurisdiction under this subchapter on all unincorporated lands,
except as provided under division (E)(2) below or through some form of
administrative agreement.
      (2)   Townships wishing to adopt official controls under M.S. § 394.33
may only obtain zoning authority for floodplain controls when they have adopted
an ordinance that is approved by the Department of Natural Resources and has
formally enrolled in the NFIP. Until this occurs, the county shall retain
jurisdiction under this subchapter on all unincorporated lands. In the event
that a township returns zoning authority, the county shall resume that
authority.
(Ord. 8.1-24, passed 8-28-2024)
§ 154.143 REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permit required. A permit must be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator to verify compliance with all applicable standards outlined in
this subchapter prior to the following uses or activities:
      (1)   The erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation, repair, or
alteration of any building, structure, or portion thereof. Normal maintenance
requires a permit to determine if such work, either separately or in
conjunction with other planned work, constitutes a substantial improvement, as
specified in §
154.151(A)(3).
      (2)   The construction of a fence, pool, deck, or placement of anything
that may cause a potential obstruction. Farm fences, as defined in §
154.141, are not considered to be an obstruction, and as such, do not require a
permit.
      (3)   The change or expansion of a nonconforming use.
      (4)   The repair of a structure that has been damaged by flood, fire,
tornado, or any other source.
      (5)   The placement of fill, excavation, utilities, on-site sewage
treatment systems, or other service facilities.
      (6)   The storage of materials or equipment, in conformance with division
(C)(2).
      (7)   Relocation or alteration of a watercourse (including stabilization
projects or the construction of new or replacement dams, culverts and bridges).
A local permit is not required if a public waters work permit has been obtained
from the Department of Natural Resources, unless a significant area above the
ordinary high water level is also to be disturbed.
      (8)   Any other type of “development,” as defined in §
154.141.
   (B)   No permit required. Certain uses or activities may be exempt from
obtaining a permit, such as planting a garden, farming, or other obviously
insignificant activities such as putting up a mailbox or flagpole. The
continuation of existing uses, when the associated activities do not encroach
further on the regulatory floodplain or trigger associated standards in this
subchapter, do not require a permit.
   (C)   Minimum development standards.
      (1)   All development must:
         (a)   Be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         (b)   Be constructed with materials and equipment resistant to flood
damage;
         (c)   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage;
         (d)   Be constructed with heating, ventilation, duct work, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities elevated at least up to the
regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE). Water, sewage, electrical, and
other utility lines below the RFPE shall be constructed so as to prevent water
from entering or accumulating within them during conditions of flooding;
         (e)   Be reasonably safe from flooding and consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
         (f)   Be assured to provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to
flood hazards;
         (g)   Not be detrimental to uses in adjoining areas;
         (h)   Not adversely affect the efficiency or restrict the flood
carrying capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary
watercourse or drainage system; and
         (i)   Ensure that any fill or other materials are protected from
erosion, discharge, and sediment entering surface waters by the use of
vegetative cover or other methods as soon as possible.
      (2)   Materials that, in time of flooding, are buoyant, flammable,
explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life shall be
stored at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE),
floodproofed, or protected by other measures as approved by the Zoning
Administrator. Storage of materials likely to cause pollution of the waters,
such as sewage; sand; rock; wrecked and discarded equipment; dredged spoil;
municipal, agricultural or industrial waste; and other wastes as further
defined in M.S. § 115.01, are prohibited unless adequate safeguards approved by
the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency are provided. For projects not requiring
approvals by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, adequate safeguards must
be approved by the Zoning Administrator prior to issuance of a permit.
      (3)   Critical facilities shall be located so that the lowest floor is
not less than two feet above the base flood elevation (BFE), or the 0.2% annual
chance flood elevation, whichever is higher.
Table 1: Summary of Permitting Requirements for Structures
Structure Floodway Flood Fringe Standards*
Table 1: Summary of Permitting Requirements for Structures
Structure            Floodway            Flood Fringe        Standards*
Accessory structures Only specific uses                      §
- on fill            and types allowed - Allowed with permit 154.145(B)(3)(d)2.
                     with CUP
Accessory structures Only specific uses                      §
- alt. elevation     and types allowed - Allowed with permit 154.145(B)(3)(d)3.
methods              with CUP
Accessory structures Only specific uses                      §
- wet floodproofing  and types allowed - Allowed with permit 154.145(B)(3)(d)1.
                     with CUP
Accessory structures Only specific uses                      §
- dry (watertight)   and types allowed - Allowed with permit 154.145(B)(3)(d)4.
floodproofing        with CUP
Residential - on     Not allowed         Allowed with permit §
fill                                                         154.145(B)(1)(a)
Residential - alt.   Not allowed         Allowed with CUP    §
elevation methods                                            154.145(D)(1)
Residential - dry
(watertight)
floodproofing and/or Not allowed         Not allowed         N/A
basement
construction below
RFPE
Non-residential - on Not allowed         Allowed with permit §
fill                                                         154.145(B)(2)(a)
Non-residential -                                            §
alt. elevation       Not allowed         Allowed with permit 154.145(B)(2)(b)
methods
Non-residential -
dry (watertight)
floodproofing and/or Not allowed         Allowed with permit §
basement                                                     154.145(B)(2)(c)
construction below
RFPE
*Note - many of these standards are cross-referenced
 
(Ord. 8.1-24, passed 8-28-2024)
§ 154.144 FLOODWAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses in floodway. Development allowed in the Floodway
District is limited to that which has low flood damage potential and will not
obstruct flood flows, increase velocities, or increase the water surface
elevations of the 1% annual chance flood. The following uses and activities may
be allowed with a permit, subject to the standards in division (B):
      (1)   Agricultural uses, recreational uses, parking lots, loading areas,
airport landing strips, water control structures, navigational facilities, as
well as public open space uses.
      (2)   Roads, driveways, railroads, trails, bridges, and culverts.
      (3)   Public utility facilities and water-oriented industries which must
be in or adjacent to watercourses.
      (4)   Grading, filling, land alterations, and shoreline stabilization
projects.
      (5)   No structures, as defined in §
154.141, are allowed in the Floodway District, except structures accessory to
the uses detailed in divisions (A)(1) and (C)(1), which require a CUP under
division (C)(2).
      (6)   Levees or dikes intended to protect agricultural crops, provided
the top of the dike does not exceed the 10% annual chance flood event.
   (B)   Standards for permitted uses in floodway. In addition to the
applicable standards detailed in §
154.143:
      (1)   The applicant must demonstrate that the development will not result
in any of the following during the 1% annual chance flood: cause a stage
increase of 0.00 feet or greater, obstruct flood flows, or increase velocities.
This shall be demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis performed
by a professional engineer, or using other standard engineering practices
(e.g., projects that restore the site to the previous cross-sectional area).
This is commonly documented through a “no-rise certification.”
      (2)   Any development that would result in a stage increases greater than
0.00 feet may only be allowed with a permit if the applicant has applied for
and received approval for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) in
accordance with C.F.R., Title, § 65.12. Map revisions must follow the
procedures in §§
154.150(A)(5) and
154.153.
      (3)   Any development resulting in decreases to the water surface
elevation of the base flood identified in the Flood Insurance Study requires a
Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) following the procedures in §§ 154.150(A)(5) and
154.153.
      (4)   Any development in the beds of public waters that will change the
course, current or cross section is required to obtain a public waters work
permit in accordance with M.S. § 103G.245 or a utility crossing license in
accordance with M.S. § 84.415, from the Department of Natural Resources, or
demonstrate that no permit is required, before applying for a local permit.
      (5)   Any facility used by employees or the general public must be
designed with a flood warning system acceptable to the Zoning Administrator
that provides adequate time for evacuation, or be designed to ensure that
within the area inundated during the base flood event, the depth (in feet)
multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) is less than four.
      (6)   Fill and other land alteration activities must offer minimal
obstruction to the flow of flood waters, and be protected from erosion and
sediment entering surface waters by the use of vegetative cover, riprap or
other methods as soon as possible.
   (C)   Conditional uses in floodway. The following uses and activities may be
permitted as conditional uses, subject to the standards detailed in division
(D):
      (1)   Commercial extractive uses, and storage and stockpiling yards.
      (2)   Structures accessory to uses detailed in divisions (A)(1) and (C)
(1).
   (D)   Standards for conditional uses in floodway. In addition to the
applicable standards detailed in division (B) and §§
154.143 and
154.150(B):
      (1)   Extractive uses and storage of materials require the completion of
a site development and restoration plan, to be approved by the city.
      (2)   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to the uses detailed in
divisions (A)(1) and (C)(1) must be constructed and placed so as to offer a
minimal obstruction to the flow of flood waters, and are subject to the
standards in §
154.145(B)(3).
(Ord. 8.1-24, passed 8-28-2024)
§ 154.145 FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses in flood fringe. Any uses or activities allowed in any
applicable underlying zoning districts may be allowed with a permit, subject to
the standards set forth in division (B).
   (B)   Standards for permitted uses in flood fringe. In addition to the
applicable standards detailed in §
154.143:
      (1)   Residential structures.
         (a)   Elevation on fill. Structures erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, or moved on fill within the Flood Fringe District shall
be placed so that the lowest floor, as defined in §
154.141, is elevated at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation
(RFPE). The finished fill elevation shall be at or above the elevation
associated with the base flood plus any stage increases that result from
designation of a floodway. Fill must extend at the same elevation at least 15
feet beyond the outside limits of the structure. Elevations must be certified
by a registered professional engineer, land surveyor or other qualified person
designated by the Zoning Administrator. Elevation methods alternative to these
fill standards are subject to a conditional use permit, as provided in division
(C)(1) (Figure 2). Construction of this type shall only be permitted in
locations where the natural ground is no lower than three feet below the base
flood elevation.
Figure 2: Overview of fill standards for residential structures.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7083e42a0cff682d9f24321a16796f23eeca7a06/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2365.jpg]
      (2)    Nonre sidential princi pal struct ures. Nonresidential principal
structures must meet one of the following construction methods:
         (a)   Elevation on fill. Structures may be elevated on fill, meeting
the standards in division (B)(1)(a). Fill for nonresidential structures is not
required to be extended 15 feet beyond the outside limits of the structure.
         (b)   Alternative elevation methods. Structures may be elevated using
methods alternative to the fill standards in division (B)(1)(a). Such methods
include the use of blocks, pilings (Figure 3), filled stem walls (Figure 4), or
internally-flooded enclosed areas (Figure 5) such as crawl spaces, attached
garages, or tuck under garages.
Figure 3: Blocks or pilings.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7083e42a0cff682d9f24321a16796f23eeca7a06/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2369.jpg]
Figure 4: Filled stem walls.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7083e42a0cff682d9f24321a16796f23eeca7a06/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2367.jpg]
Figure 5: Internally flooded enclosed area .
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7083e42a0cff682d9f24321a16796f23eeca7a06/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2371.jpg]
         (c)   Designs accommodating for internally-flooded enclosed areas must
be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or
exceed the standards detailed in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1, as amended, as well
as the following standards:
            1.   The lowest floor, as defined in §
154.141, shall be elevated at or above the regulatory flood protection
elevation (RFPE).
            2.   The floor of the enclosed area must be at or above the
exterior grade on at least one side of the structure.
            3.   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure, there
shall be a minimum of two openings below the base flood elevation on at least
two sides of the structure. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than
one foot above grade. The openings shall have a minimum net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding, have a net area of not less than one square inch for every square
foot of enclosed area subject to flooding, and shall allow automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters without human intervention.
            4.   Internally flooded enclosed areas shall only be used for the
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage. Bathrooms and toilet rooms
shall not be allowed. Such areas shall be subject to a deed-restricted non-
conversion agreement as well as periodic inspections with the issuance of any
permit.
         (d)   Dry floodproofing. Structures having watertight enclosed
basements or spaces below the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE) must
meet the following standards:
            1.   Walls must be substantially impermeable to the passage of
water, with structural components having the capacity of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy, at least up to the regulatory
flood protection elevation (RFPE);
            2.   Must meet the standards of FEMA Technical Bulletin 3, as
amended; and
            3.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall be
required to certify that the design and methods of construction meet the
standards detailed in this section.
      (3)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures must meet the
following standards:
         (a)   Structures shall not be designed or used for human habitation.
         (b)   Structures will have a low flood damage potential.
         (c)   Structures with fewer than two rigid walls, such as carports,
gazebos, and picnic pavilions, may be located at an elevation below the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
         (d)   Structures with two or more rigid walls, must meet one of the
following construction methods:
            1.   Wet floodproofing. Structures may be floodproofed in a way to
accommodate internal flooding. Such structures shall constitute a minimal
investment not to exceed 576 square feet in size, one-story in height, and
shall only be used for parking and storage. To allow for the equalization of
hydrostatic pressure, there shall be a minimum of two openings on at least two
sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings shall be no higher than
one foot above grade. The openings shall have a minimum net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding, and shall allow automatic entry and exit of floodwaters without human
intervention.
            2.   Elevation on fill. Structures may be elevated on fill, meeting
the standards in division (B)(1)(a). Fill is not required to be extended 15
feet beyond the outside limits of the structure.
            3.   Alternative elevation methods. Structures may have their
lowest floor elevated above the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE)
through methods alternative to the fill standards in division (B)(3)(d)2., and
must meet the standards in division (B)(2)(b).
            4.   Dry floodproofing. Structures may be dry-floodproofed, or
watertight, meeting the standards in division (B)(2)(d).
      (4)   All new principal structures must provide vehicular access no lower
than one foot below the base flood elevation (BFE), unless a flood warning/
emergency evacuation plan has been approved by the city.
      (5)   Any facilities used by employees or the general public must be
designed with a flood warning system acceptable to the city that provides
adequate time for evacuation, or be designed to ensure that within the area
inundated during the base flood event, the depth (in feet) multiplied by the
velocity (in feet per second) is less than four.
      (6)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles must meet the
standards of §
154.149.
   (C)   Conditional uses in flood fringe. The following uses and activities
may be permitted as conditional uses, subject to the standards in division (D):
      (1)   Alternative elevation methods; residential structures. Residential
structures with their lowest floor elevated above the regulatory flood
protection elevation (RFPE) using methods alternative to the fill requirements
in division (B)(1).
   (D)   Standards for conditional uses in flood fringe. In addition to the
applicable standards detailed in division (B) and §§
154.143 and
154.150(B):
      (1)   All residential structures with lowest floors elevated through
alternative elevation methods must meet the standards in division (B)(2)(b).
(Ord. 8.1-24, passed 8-28-2024)
§ 154.146 GENERAL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses in General Floodplain District.
      (1)   Until the floodway is delineated, allowable uses will be restricted
to those listed in the Floodway District, §
154.144.
      (2)   All other uses are subject to a floodway/flood fringe determination
as provided in division (D), in addition to the standards provided in divisions
(B) and (C). Permitted uses shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   If the development is determined to be in the Floodway District,
§
154.144 applies.
         (b)   If the development is determined to be in the Flood Fringe
District, §
154.145 applies.
   (B)   Determining flood elevations.
      (1)   All development requires a determination of the base flood
elevation (BFE). Exceptions to this requirement include projects that restore
the site to the previous cross-sectional area, such as shore stabilization or
culvert replacement projects. Base flood elevations (BFE) may be found using
best available data from any federal, state, or other source (including MNDNR’s
Lake and Flood Elevations Online (LFEO) Viewer).
      (2)   The regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE) can be determined
by assuming a one- half foot stage increase to accommodate for future
cumulative impacts. A stage increase does not need to be assumed along lakes,
wetlands, and other basins that are not affected by velocities.
   (C)   Encroachment analysis.
      (1)   Encroachments due to development may not allow stage increases more
than one-half foot at any point, unless through a map revision following the
procedures in §§
154.150(A)(5) and 154.153. This evaluation must include the cumulative effects
of previous encroachments, and must be documented with hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis performed by a professional engineer, or using other standard
engineering practices. A lesser water surface elevation increase than one-half
foot is required if, due to the water surface level increase, increased flood
damages would potentially result.
      (2)   Alterations or changes that result in stage decreases are allowed
and encouraged.
   (D)   Standards for the analysis of floodway boundaries.
      (1)   Requirements for detailed studies. Any development, as requested by
the Zoning Administrator, shall be subject to a detailed study to determine the
regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE) and the limits of the Floodway
District. This determination must be consistent with the minimum standards for
hydrologic and hydraulic mapping standards and techniques, as detailed in
Minnesota Rules 6120.5600, Subp. 4 and FEMA Guidelines and Standards for Flood
Risk Analysis and Mapping, as revised. Additionally:
         (a)   A regulatory floodway necessary to carry the discharge of the 1%
annual chance flood must be selected without increasing the water surface
elevation more than one-half foot at any point. This determination should
include the cumulative effects of previous encroachments. A lesser water
surface elevation increase than one-half foot is required if, due to the water
surface level increase, increased flood damages would potentially result; and
         (b)   An equal degree of encroachment on both sides of the stream
within the reach must be assumed in computing floodway boundaries, unless
topography, existing development patterns, and comprehensive land
use plans justify a modified approach, as approved by the Department of Natural
Resources.
      (2)   Other acceptable methods. For areas where a detailed study is not
available or required:
         (a)   Development prohibited in floodways (e.g., most buildings)
requires a floodway/flood fringe determination to verify the development is
within the flood fringe. This determination must be done by a professional
engineer or utilize other accepted engineering practices. The Department of
Natural Resources may also provide technical assistance and must approve any
alternative methods used to determine floodway boundaries.
         (b)   For areas where the floodway has not been determined in and
along lakes, wetlands, and other basins, the following methodology may be used
as an alternative to division (D)(2)(a) above, provided these areas are not
affected by velocities and the lot is able to accommodate a building site above
the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE):
            1.   All areas that are at or below the ordinary high water level,
as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, Subd. 14, will be considered floodway, and all
areas below the base flood elevation (BFE) but above the ordinary high water
level will be considered flood fringe, provided that within 25 feet of the
ordinary high water level, or within the Shore Impact Zone as identified in the
community’s Shoreland ordinance, whichever distance is greater, land
alterations shall be restricted to:
               a.   The minimum required to accommodate beach areas, access
areas, and accessory structures as permitted, not to exceed a volume greater
than 10 cubic yards; projects involving volumes exceeding 10 cubic yards
require floodway/flood fringe determination in accordance with the procedures
in division (D)(2)(a); and
               b.   The minimum required to accommodate shoreline stabilization
projects to correct an identified erosion problem as verified by a qualified
resource agency or the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 8.1-24, passed 8-28-2024)
§ 154.147 SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
   All subdivided land must meet the following requirements. Manufactured home
parks and recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds are considered subdivisions
under this subchapter.
   (A)   All lots within floodplain districts must be suitable for a building
site outside of the Floodway District.
   (B)   Subdivision of lands within the floodplain districts may not be
approved if the cost of providing governmental services would impose an
unreasonable economic burden on the city.
   (C)   All subdivisions must have vehicular access both to the subdivision
and to the individual building sites no lower than two feet below the
regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE), unless a flood warning/emergency
evacuation plan has been approved by the city.
   (D)   The Floodway and Flood Fringe District boundaries, the regulatory
flood protection elevation (RFPE) and the required elevation of all access
roads must be clearly identified on all required subdivision drawings and
platting documents.
(Ord. 8.1-24, passed 8-28-2024)
§ 154.148 PUBLIC AND PRIVATE UTILITIES, SERVICE FACILITIES, ROADS, BRIDGES, AND
RAILROADS.
   (A)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads, and bridges
must be elevated to the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE) where such
facilities are essential to the orderly functioning of the area, or where
failure or interruption would result in danger to public health or safety.
Minor or auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation
where failure or interruption of transportation services would not endanger the
public health or safety. All public transportation facilities should be
designed to minimize increases in flood elevations.
   (B)   Public utilities. All utilities such as gas, electrical, sewer, and
water supply systems to be located in the floodplain must be elevated and/or
floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE), be located
and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage, and be designed to
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the
systems into flood waters. All public utilities should be designed to minimize
increases in flood elevations. New solid waste management facilities, as
defined in Minnesota Rules, part 7035.0300, are prohibited in the 1% annual
chance floodplain. Water supply systems are subject to the provisions in
Minnesota Rules, part 4725.4350.
   (C)   Private on-site water supply, individual sewage treatment systems, and
other service facilities. Private facilities shall be subject to applicable
provisions detailed in division (B). In addition, new or replacement on-site
sewage treatment systems are to be located to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during times of flooding, shall not be located in a
designated floodway, and are subject to the provisions in Minnesota Rules, part
7080.2270.
(Ord. 8.1-24, passed 8-28-2024)
§ 154.149 MANUFACTURED HOMES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Manufactured homes. Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks are
subject to applicable standards for each floodplain district. In addition:
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes must be placed and elevated
in compliance with §
154.145 and must be securely anchored to a system that resists flotation,
collapse and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
      (2)   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing manufactured
home parks must meet the appropriate standards for subdivisions in §
154.147.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles. New recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds
and expansions to existing recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds are
prohibited in any floodplain district. Recreational vehicles placed in existing
recreational vehicle parks, campgrounds or lots of record in the floodplain
must either:
      (1)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes in division (A); or
      (2)   Be travel ready, meeting the following criteria:
         (a)   The vehicle must be fully licensed.
         (b)   The vehicle must be ready for highway use, meaning on wheels or
the internal jacking system, attached to the site only by quick-disconnect type
utilities.
         (c)   No permanent structural type additions may be attached to the
vehicle.
         (d)   Accessory structures may be permitted in the Flood Fringe
District, provided they do not hinder the removal of the vehicle should
flooding occur, and meet the standards outlined in §§ 154.143 and 154.145(B)
(3).
(Ord. 8.1-24, passed 8-28-2024)
§ 154.150 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Duties. A Zoning Administrator or other official must administer and
enforce this subchapter.
      (1)   Permit application requirements. Permit applications must be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator. The permit application must include the
following, as applicable:
         (a)   A site plan showing all existing or proposed buildings,
structures, service facilities, potential obstructions, and pertinent design
features having an influence on the permit.
         (b)   Location and detail of grading, fill, or storage of materials.
         (c)   Copies of any required local, state or federal permits or
approvals.
         (d)   Other relevant information requested by the Zoning Administrator
as necessary to properly evaluate the permit application.
      (2)   Recordkeeping. The Zoning Administrator must maintain applicable
records in perpetuity documenting:
         (a)   All certifications for dry floodproofing and alternative
elevation methods, where applicable.
         (b)   Analysis of no-rise in the Floodway District, as detailed in §
154.144(B)(1), and encroachment analysis ensuring no more than one-half foot of
rise in the General Floodplain District, as detailed in §
154.146(B)(2) and (C)(1).
         (c)   Final elevations, as applicable, detailing the elevation to
which structures and improvements to structures are constructed or
floodproofed. Elevations shall be determined by an engineer, architect,
surveyor or other qualified individual, as approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
         (d)   Substantial damage and substantial improvement determinations,
as detailed in §
154.151(A)(3), including the cost of improvements, repairs, and market value.
         (e)   All variance actions, including justification for their
issuance, and must report such variances as requested by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
      (3)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered, or
nonconforming use. No building, land or structure may be occupied or used in
any manner until a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued by the
Zoning Administrator stating that the finished fill and building floor
elevations or other flood protection measures are in compliance with the
requirements of this subchapter.
      (4)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. Before authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a river or stream, the Zoning Administrator must
notify adjacent communities. If the applicant has applied for a permit to work
in public waters in accordance with M.S. § 103G.245, this will suffice as
adequate notice. A copy of the notification must also be submitted to FEMA.
      (5)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease
base flood elevations. Where physical changes affecting flooding conditions may
increase or decrease the water surface elevation of the base flood, the city
must notify FEMA of the changes in order to obtain a Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR), by submitting a copy of the relevant technical or scientific data as
soon as practicable, but no later than six months
after the date such supporting information becomes available. Within the
General Floodplain District, a map revision is only required if development
results in stage increases greater than one-half feet.
   (B)   Conditional uses and variances.
      (1)   Process.
         (a)   An application for a conditional use permit will be processed
and reviewed in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
         (b)   An application for a variance to the provisions of this
subchapter will be processed and reviewed in accordance with M.S. § 394.27,
Subd. 7 and this subchapter.
      (2)   Additional variance criteria. The following additional variance
criteria must be satisfied:
         (a)   Variances must not be issued within any designated regulatory
floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would
result.
         (b)   Variances from the provisions of this subchapter may only be
issued by a community upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         (c)   Variances from the provisions in this subchapter may only be
issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
         (d)   Variances must be consistent with the general purpose of these
standards and the intent of applicable provisions in state and federal law.
         (e)   Variances may be used to modify permissible methods of flood
protection, but no variance shall permit a lesser degree of flood protection
than the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE).
         (f)   The Zoning Administrator must notify the applicant for a
variance in writing that:
            1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
            2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks
to life and property. Notification must be maintained with a record of all
variance actions.
      (3)   Considerations for approval. The city must consider all relevant
factors specified in other sections of this subchapter in granting variances
and conditional use permits, including the following:
         (a)   The potential danger to life and property due to increased flood
heights or velocities caused by encroachments.
         (b)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others.
         (c)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
      (4)   Conditions of approval. The city may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances and conditional use permits as it deems necessary to
fulfill the purposes of this subchapter. Such conditions may include, but are
not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Limitations on period of use, occupancy, and operation.
         (b)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
         (c)   The prevention of soil erosion or other possible pollution of
public waters, both during and after construction.
         (d)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Zoning
Administrator and Planning Commission/City Council.
   (C)   Notifications to the Department of Natural Resources.
      (1)   All notices of public hearings to consider variances or conditional
uses under this subchapter must be sent via electronic mail to the Department
of Natural Resources respective area hydrologist at least ten days before the
hearings. Notices of hearings to consider subdivisions/plats must include
copies of the subdivision/plat.
      (2)   A copy of all decisions granting variances and conditional uses
under this subchapter must be sent via electronic mail to the Department of
Natural Resources respective area hydrologist within ten days of final action.
(Ord. 8.1-24, passed 8-28-2024)
§ 154.151 NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Continuance of nonconformities. A use, structure, or occupancy of land
which was lawful before the passage or amendment of this subchapter, but which
is not in conformity with the provisions of this subchapter, may be continued
subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Within the Floodway and General Floodplain Districts (when a site
has been determined to be located in the floodway following the procedures in §
154.146(C), or when the floodway has not been delineated), any expansion or
enlargement of uses or structures is prohibited.
      (2)   Within all districts, any addition, modification, rehabilitation,
repair, or alteration shall be in conformance with the provisions of this
subchapter, shall not increase the flood damage potential or increase the
degree of obstruction to flood flows, and where applicable, must be protected
to the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE).
      (3)   If any nonconforming structure is determined to be substantially
damaged or substantially improved based on the procedures in division (B), it
may not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this
subchapter. Any structures located outside the 1% annual chance floodplain are
exempt from this provision.
      (4)   If any nonconforming use, or any use of a nonconforming structure,
is discontinued for more than one year, any future use of the premises must
conform to this subchapter.
      (5)   If any nonconforming structure has utilities, electrical, or
mechanical equipment damaged due to flooding, it must be rebuilt in conformance
with the elevation requirements in §
154.143(C)(1)(d) to the greatest extent practicable. This requirement shall
apply regardless of the determinations made in division (B).
   (B)   Substantial improvement and substantial damage determinations. Prior
to issuing any permits for additions, modifications, rehabilitations, repairs,
alterations, or maintenance to nonconforming structures, the Zoning
Administrator is required to determine if such work constitutes substantial
improvement or repair of a substantially damaged structure. A determination
must be made in accordance with the following procedures:
      (1)   Estimate the market value of the structure. In the case of repairs,
the market value of the structure shall be the market value before the damage
occurred and before any restoration or repairs are made.
      (2)   Estimate the cost of the project. The property owner shall
accommodate for inspection, and furnish other documentation needed by the
Zoning Administrator to evaluate costs.
         (a)   Improvement costs shall be comprised of the market rate of all
materials and labor, as well as the costs of all ordinary maintenance and
upkeep carried out over the past one year.
         (b)   Costs to repair damages shall be comprised of the market rate of
all materials and labor required to restore a building to its pre-damaged
condition regardless of the work proposed, as well as associated improvement
costs if structure is being restored beyond its pre-damaged condition.
      (3)   Compare the cost of the improvement, repairs, or combination
thereof to the estimated market value of the structure, and determine whether
the proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of a
substantially damaged structure, as defined in §
154.141.
         (a)   For the purposes of determining whether the proposed work would
constitute substantial improvement, the evaluation shall also include all
rehabilitations, additions, or other improvements completed since the community
has adopted floodplain standards impacting this structure.
         (b)   If any nonconforming structure experiences a repetitive loss, as
defined in §
154.141, it shall be considered substantially damaged and must not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (4)   Based on this determination, the Zoning Administrator shall prepare
a determination letter and notify the property owner accordingly. Structures
determined to be substantially damaged or substantially improved may not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 8.1-24, passed 8-28-2024)
§ 154.152 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Uses in violation of the subchapter. Every structure, fill, deposit,
or other use placed or maintained in the floodplain in violation of this
subchapter shall be considered a public nuisance.
   (B)   Civil remedies. The creation of a public nuisance may be enjoined and
the maintenance of a public nuisance under this subchapter may be abated by an
action brought by the city or the Department of Natural Resources.
   (C)   Enforcement. Violations of the provisions of this subchapter
constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law. The Zoning
Administrator may utilize the full array of enforcement actions available to it
including but not limited to prosecution and fines, injunctions, after-the-fact
permits, orders for corrective measures or a request to the National Flood
Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance. The city must act in good
faith to enforce these official controls and to correct ordinance violations to
the extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National
Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 8.1-24, passed 8-28-2024)
§ 154.153 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Ordinance amendments. Any revisions to the floodplain maps by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency or annexations of new map panels require an
ordinance amendment to update the map references in §
154.142(B).
   (B)   Required approval. All amendments to this subchapter must be submitted
to the Department of Natural Resources for review and approval prior to
adoption, for compliance with state and federal rules and requirements. The
floodplain ordinance shall not be considered valid until approved.
(Ord. 8.1-24, passed 8-28-2024)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 154.160 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT FIXED DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purposes of the Planned Unit Development Fixed District
is to allow for the continuance of planned unit developments approved through
conditional use permits prior to the specified date.
   (B)   District Expansion. There shall be no new parcels zoned to the Planned
Unit Development Fixed District after the specified date.
   (C)   Approved plans continue. All preliminary and final development plans
approved as part of a planned unit development prior to the specified date
shall remain in full force and effect as part of this overlay district.
Provided new development in the Planned Unit Development Fixed District is in
compliance with the approved plans, the development shall be considered in
conformance.
   (D)   Amendments. Amendments to development plans for property in the
Planned Unit Development Fixed District shall be processed according to the
provisions in §
154.070(E). Minor amendments will be considered while major amendments shall
require the establishment of a new Planned Unit Development District.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.161 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The planned unit development (PUD) provisions are
intended to encourage more efficient use of land, public services and greater
amenity by allowing, under certain circumstances, a more flexible means of land
development or redevelopment than is otherwise afforded through the strict
enforcement of the zoning requirements of certain districts through lot-by-lot
development. Although planned unit developments may appear to deviate in
certain aspects from a literal interpretation of the zoning and subdivision
ordinances, the PUD and its accompanying guidelines are intended to allow
flexibility in design in order to promote developments which will be an asset
to the city by equaling or surpassing the quality of developments resulting
from the application of more conventional zoning regulations. A PUD may be used
as an overlay district over any based zoning district or combination of zoning
districts.
   (B)   Establishment. A planned unit development shall be established by
rezoning to a newly created, numbered Planned Unit Development District that
outlines the uses, dimensions and design standards of the new PUD zoning
district following the procedures set forth in §
154.070.
   (C)   Minimum size. Planned unit developments shall be on a tract of land
not less than one acre.
   (D)   Uses. Permitted uses shall generally be consistent with the permitted
or conditional uses of the underlying base district. However, a PUD district
can request alternative uses to the permitted uses of the underlying base
district, subject to the approval by the City Council as part of the
establishment of the PUD.
   (E)   Density. Density of development will be reviewed based on the
following criteria:
      (1)   Effect on adjacent properties;
      (2)   Adequacy of public and private services and infrastructure;
      (3)   Overall design;
      (4)   Scale and massing of structures;
      (5)   Building elevations and setbacks;
      (6)   Landscaping, screening and buffering;
      (7)   Open space provision and design; and
      (8)   Retention of natural, cultural and historic resources.
   (F)   Dimensional and design standards. The following provisions shall be
addressed as part of the PUD. When it is intended that regulations vary from
the underlying district, the applicant shall propose them as part of the PUD
application process:
      (1)   PUD perimeter. A PUD shall be designed to complement existing
adjacent uses and infrastructure.
      (2)   Lot area. Lot area may vary from the underlying base district
standard in a PUD provided the developer has demonstrated that the proposed
design and layout meets the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Yard setbacks. Setbacks may vary from underlying base district
standards in a PUD provided the developer has demonstrated that the proposed
design and layout meets the provisions of this chapter. Perimeter setbacks
shall be consistent with the setbacks of adjacent zoning districts.
      (4)   Building height. Building height may vary from the underlying base
district standard. The city may request cross sections, elevations and other
information from the developer in order to determine if the structure height
meets the provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   Environmental design. A PUD shall be designed to preserve existing
vegetation and topography where practical and shall be consistent with the
goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan.
      (6)   Common open space. A PUD shall include common open space that is
functional, improves appearance and aesthetics, is accessible and where
possible adds to existing common or public open space systems.
         (a)   Common open space shall not include:
            1.   Setback areas;
            2.   Street right-of-way;
            3.   Parking areas and driveways;
            4.   Building sites;
            5.   Private/internal walkways and trails; or
            6.   Inaccessible stormwater ponds.
         (b)   Common open space may include land dedicated for public parks,
trails or pathways.
         (c)   All structures or facilities proposed as part of common open
space systems shall be completed as part of the required improvements or
infrastructure of the proposed PUD.
         (d)   A PUD shall provide the following minimum amount of common open
space based on the land use type that comprises more than 50% of the land use
for the development:
            1.   Residential shall provide at least 30% of common open space;
            2.   Commercial shall provide at least 15% of common open space;
and
            3.   Industrial shall provide at least ten percent of common open
space.
      (7)   Architecture. A PUD shall include and incorporate architectural
planning by the developer and implementation provisions for controlling the
architecture by protective covenants, design overlay districts enforced by the
city or other legal methods. Overall architectural design shall be generally
compatible with the characteristics of the surrounding developments.
      (8)   Parking. Parking ratios may deviate from the off-street parking
space standards. Where alternative parking ratios are not stated in the PUD
application, they shall conform to the §
154.295 parking standards.
      (9)   Streets, utilities and drainage. All publicly dedicated streets,
utilities and stormwater facilities shall be designed in accordance with city
ordinances and policies. The city may consider flexible standards for streets
if the developer has demonstrated that the proposed design and layout warrants
varying standards and the design meets the provisions of this Title.
      (10)   Traffic calming design.
         (a)   Traffic calming measures and good street design shall be
considered in all PUDs.
         (b)    Traffic calming examples.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7083e42a0cff682d9f24321a16796f23eeca7a06/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2248.png]
      (11)   Circulation/access.
         (a)   Vehicular access to lots adjoining an arterial as defined by the
functional classification system shall be designed by way of a frontage road,
service road or local street.
         (b)   Streets in a PUD shall be designed to promote a grid network of
streets, minimizing dead ends and cul-de-sacs and connecting to adjoining
developments where streets have been "stubbed in" for the purpose of
continuation.
         (c)   A PUD shall include provisions for pedestrians, bicycles and
transit.
   (G)   Landscaping. A landscape and screening plan shall be included in the
PUD submittal to the city including street tree provisions, screening, parking
lot landscaping where applicable and the preservation of mature, healthy
hardwood trees where applicable.
   (H)   Signs. A sign plan shall be included in the PUD submittal to the city.
Signage shall generally conform to §§
154.340 through
154.351, Sign Regulations. Freestanding pylon type signs shall consolidate
tenants or uses in predetermined locations, minimizing the number of
freestanding signs where possible.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
USE SPECIFIC STANDARDS
§ 154.175 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter establishes the additional standards and
considerations required to be met to allow for uses permitted with standards
and conditional uses, as established within the tables of §
154.112 and §
154.113.
   (B)   These standards are in addition to development standards established
in §§
154.270 through
154.282, and lot and dimension standards in §§
154.125 through
154.127. Where standards differ, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.176 HOUSEHOLD LIVING.
   (A)   Manufactured home. Manufactured homes shall meet the permitting and
installation standards established within
Chapter 152 of the City Code and state statutes and rules as may be amended
from time to time.
   (B)   Dwelling, single-family detached conversion to two, three or four
unit.
      (1)   Conversion of a dwelling into a two, three or four-family dwelling
shall conform with the lot area frontage and yard requirements prescribed for
such two, three and four-family dwellings within the same district and with all
other applicable requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Units shall share a common driveway; only one curbcut/street access
is permitted for driveway/parking uses.
   (C)   Dwelling, two to four unit (duplex, triplex, quadraplex). Units shall
share a common driveway; only one curbcut/street access is permitted for
driveway/parking uses.
   (D)   Dwelling, single family attached (twinhome, townhouse, rowhouse).
      (1)   The applicant shall record all covenant and deed restrictions on
all property which will abut the common line. The covenants and deed
restrictions shall:
         (a)   Provide access for repair and maintenance of common walls,
service lines and overhangs;
         (b)   Provide for easements for service lines, common walls, footings
and overhangs; and
         (c)   Provide for restrictions to limit changes in color, material and
design of the dwelling.
      (2)   Minimum width of individual unit – 18 feet.
   (E)   Dwelling, multi-family.
      (1)   Requirements for exterior wall surfacing and covering shall be as
follows:
         (a)   All multiple-family dwelling buildings shall be designed and
constructed to have the equivalence of a front appearance on each exterior
surface.
         (b)   All accessory or ancillary structures, including garages, shall
be designed and constructed with the same facing materials as the principal
structure. The materials shall be used in the same or better proportions as
used on the principal structure.
      (2)   Any exterior trash or garbage disposal or storage shall be fully
enclosed by screening walls with access gate, made of the similar materials as
the principal structure.
      (3)   Sidewalks shall be provided from parking areas, loading zones and
recreation areas to the entrance(s) of the building.
      (4)   Outdoor swimming pools or other intensive recreation shall observe
setbacks required for the principal structure.
   (F)   Dwelling, 2nd floor + apartments (above nonresidential ground floor).
      (1)   Shall be located in the upper stories of a structure; the basement;
or in the ground story, a minimum of 30 feet behind any primary street facade
and behind a permitted use, or on a secondary, rear or side facade.
      (2)   Dwelling unit entrances are not required to be internal to the
building; separate entrances for dwellings require walkways from parking areas,
common recreational space and the public right-of-way.
      (3)   Balconies, if included, shall individually serve a single dwelling
unit.
      (4)   Parking shall be provided for both ground floor uses and dwelling
units, both meeting the standards set in § 154.295.
         (a)   A shared parking plan may be considered by the Zoning
Administrator if the applicant shows adequate on-site parking for peak hours of
both uses.
         (b)   Any approved shared parking plan will be kept on file with the
city.
   (G)   Manufactured home park.
      (1)   Generally. All regulations prescribed by the State Board of Health
or other authority having jurisdiction and the regulations of the Building Code
of the city shall be complied with in addition to the regulations set forth in
this division.
      (2)   Size. Any manufactured home park established after the effective
date of this chapter shall contain not less than 20 manufactured home lots and
shall be at least three acres in area.
      (3)   Access.
         (a)   Each manufactured home park shall abut upon a public street and
shall have no less than two ingress and egress locations abutting the public
street.
         (b)   No vehicular entrance to, or exit from, any manufactured home
park shall be located within 200 feet of any school, public playground, place
of worship, hospital, library or institution for children, except where the
property is in another block or another street which the premises in question
do not abut.
      (4)   Setback requirements. Structures in manufactured home parks shall
be set back 20 feet from front and rear property lines and 12 feet from side
property lines.
      (5)   Building height. No building or structure hereafter erected or
altered in a manufactured home park shall exceed 25 feet or one and one-half
stories in height.
      (6)   Interior requirements. The following requirements shall apply to
the interior of the manufactured home park:
         (a)   Interior streets. The minimum roadway width of interior one-way
streets with parking permitted on one side shall be 21 feet. The minimum
roadway width of two-way streets with parking permitted on one side shall be 30
feet. The minimum width of two-way streets without parking shall be 20 feet.
The streets shall be paved according to city specifications for residential
streets, maintained in good condition and lighted at night.
         (b)   Lot area. The minimum lot area per manufactured home site shall
be 5,000 square feet.
         (c)   Utilities. Each manufactured home shall be equipped with one
electric outlet and hookups for municipal water and sewer. Fire hydrants shall
be located in accordance with generally accepted practices as determined by the
City Fire Marshal and City Engineer.
         (d)   Distance between manufactured homes. The minimum distance
between neighboring manufactured homes shall be 12 feet.
         (e)   Setback from interior streets. No manufactured home shall be
located closer than ten feet to the traveled portion of an interior street.
         (f)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided at the
ratio of two spaces for each manufactured home lot.
      (7)   Required improvements. In order that a manufactured home park may
be harmonious within itself and with the surrounding area, the following
improvements shall be required:
         (a)   Adequate provisions for the control of surface drainage,
approved by the City Engineer must be incorporated on the site.
         (b)   All areas not used for access, parking, circulation, buildings
and service shall be completely and permanently landscaped and the entire area
maintained in good condition.
         (c)   A 12-foot bufferyard shall be located and maintained along all
exterior boundary lot lines not bordering a street according to the bufferyard
requirements in §
154.311.
         (d)   Skirting for manufactured homes is required.
            1.   Skirting shall be a permanent exterior material color
coordinated to match the decor of the manufactured home.
            2.   All skirting shall be firmly attached and in good repair.
         (e)   No other buildings or structures shall be attached to a
manufactured home, as specified by the Building Code.
         (f)   Accessory structures allowed shall be one utility building per
lot no larger than 120 square feet and one automobile storage garage no larger
than 8 percent of the lot or 300 square feet, whichever is greater.
            1.   No accessory structure shall be placed less than two feet from
any lot line; less than six feet from the main structure and/or closer to the
street than the front of the main structure.
            2.   Automobile storage garages shall be constructed in strict
compliance with the State Building Code and must be approved by the City
Building Official and the park owner(s) or their authorized representative.
            3.   This shall not prevent the use of an awning of aluminum,
canvas or fiberglass which may be enclosed by mesh screen and which shall not
be larger than 120 square feet in floor area.
         (g)   There shall be provided within each manufactured home park, a
recreation site or sites, for the exclusive use of the park occupants. The
recreation site shall have a minimum area of 10,000 square feet for each 50
units or fraction thereof. Where possible, the area shall be configured so it
is no longer than two times its width. The recreational sites shall be provided
with appropriate equipment.
      (8)   Commercial operations restricted.
         (a)   No commercial operation shall be conducted within the park other
than those necessary for the operation thereof. A common laundering facility is
an allowed use. Commercial sales lots for manufactured homes are prohibited.
         (b)   A conditional use permit shall be required for any home
business, according to §
154.256(C).
      (9)   Parking restrictions. Except as may be authorized by general
traffic and parking regulations or ordinances, no person shall park or occupy
any recreational vehicle in a manufactured home park.
      (10)   New application required for enlargement, extension or transfer of
permit. Any enlargement or extension to any existing manufactured home park or
transfer of an existing permit shall require a new application for a
conditional use permit as if it were a new establishment.
      (11)   Storm shelter facilities. There shall be provided within each
manufactured home park that has ten units or more, except a park for travel
trailers, suitable storm shelter facilities constructed to withstand a free
field of wind of 200 mph, a 1.2 PSI drop in four seconds, of any type of
missile projections. Storm shelter facilities shall comply with the most recent
State Building Code requirements and State Health Department standards. The
area of the shelter facilities shall be equal to seven and one-half square feet
per manufactured home lot.
      (12)   Promulgation of additional regulations. In addition to the
foregoing, the city may impose other conditions, requirements or limitations
concerning the design, development and operation of the manufactured home park
it may deem necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and the public
interest.
   (H)   Live/work unit.
      (1)   Any commercial use permitted in the zoning district applicable to
the property is permitted in the live/work unit.
      (2)   Live/work units located at street level are subject to the
development standards for ground-floor retail or commercial establishments as
follows:
         (a)   A minimum of 80% of a structure’s street front facade at street
level shall be occupied by nonresidential uses; and
         (b)   The ground floor shall have a minimum floor-to-floor height of
13 feet.
      (3)   Parking for customers, if required, shall be separate from resident
parking.
      (4)   Live/work units that exceed 2,000 square feet must have at least
two exits.
      (5)   Within each live/work unit, the living area shall not exceed one
third of the total floor area of the unit.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.177 GROUP LIVING.
   (A)   Intermediate, extended or long-term care facility (nursing home).
      (1)   A minimum of 600 square feet of lot area shall be provided for each
person to be housed on the site.
      (2)   All structures shall meet the setback standards established for
multi-unit dwellings in the same zoning district.
      (3)   At least 12% of the lot area shall be developed as designed outdoor
recreation area.
      (4)   The structure housing the use shall comply with the requirements of
the state law and the building code regulating the construction of licensed
care facilities.
      (5)   Approval must be obtained from the proper agencies concerning
health and safety conditions and the home must be licensed by the agencies.
   (B)   Residential care facility (licensed in-home).
      (1)   At least 800 square feet of lot area shall be provided for the
maximum capacity of people housed on the site.
      (2)   At least 12% of the lot area shall be developed as designed outdoor
recreation area.
      (3)   The residence structure shall provide one bedroom for each two
persons accommodated in group living quarters.
      (4)   The residence structure shall provide one bathroom for each four
persons accommodated in group living quarters.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.178 LODGING.
   (A)   Bed and breakfast facility.
      (1)   The owner or operator shall reside on the property.
      (2)   The establishment shall conform with State Health and Building Code
requirements.
      (3)   The only meal served to guests shall be breakfast and only guests
shall be served.
      (4)   Guests shall not stay for more than 14 days within any 90-day
period.
      (5)   A minimum of one off-street parking space for each guest room and
two additional off-street parking spaces for the residents shall be provided.
      (6)   On-premises advertising for any bed and breakfast facility located
in any residential zone shall be limited to either one wall sign or one
freestanding sign not more than two square feet in area per sign face. The
content of any such sign shall be limited to identifying not more than the name
and address of the facility. No sign shall be internally illuminated.
      (7)   No cooking or cooking facilities shall be allowed or provided in
the guest rooms.
      (8)   The facility shall have historical or architectural significance.
   (B)   Short-term vacation rental (principal use).
      (1)   Number of guests. The maximum number of overnight guests will be
limited to two times the number of bedrooms rented plus one.
      (2)   Events. Events are not allowed to be hosted by transient guests on
the premises. An event means a gathering on the premises of more than three un-
registered transient guests. Events hosted by the property owner are allowed,
but must abide by all applicable city ordinances and polices, including the
prohibition on renting private residential property out for events.
      (3)   Dwelling requirements.
         (a)   The dwelling must be connected to city sewer and water.
         (b)   Rooms used for sleeping shall have an egress windows and smoke
detectors.
         (c)   The guest(s) must have access during their entire stay to a full
bathroom, including sink, toilet and tub or shower.
         (d)   Accommodation of guests is not allowed in recreational vehicles,
tents, accessory structures, fish houses or similar structures.
      (4)   Parking.
         (a)   All guest parking must be accommodated on improved surfaces on
the premises. No on-street parking is allowed for guests.
         (b)   At a minimum, parking shall be provided at the following rate:
            1.   One space for each one to two bedroom rental;
            2.   Two spaces for each three bedroom rental; and
            3.   Spaces equal to the number of bedrooms minus one for each four
and four plus bedroom rental.
      (5)   Proximity of assistance. The property owner or a manager/
representative must be located within 30 miles of the property. The property
owner shall maintain with the city the name, address, phone number and email
for the local contact or managing agent for the property.
      (6)   Guest records. A guest record must be maintained, including the
name, address, phone number and vehicle license plate information for all
guests. This record must be provided to the city within 48 hours of a request
for the guest record.
      (7)   Guest disclosures. The property owner must disclose in writing to
their transient guests the following rules and regulations. This disclosure
shall be conspicuously displayed in the home:
         (a)   The name, phone number and address of the owner, operating
lessee or managing agent/representative.
         (b)   The maximum number of guests allowed at the property.
         (c)   The maximum number of vehicles allowed at the property and where
they are to be parked.
         (d)   City nuisance ordinances requirement that noise levels be
reduced between 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. and that this will be enforced by the
Kasson Police.
         (e)   Property rules related to use of outdoor features, such as
decks, patios, grills, recreational fires, saunas and other recreational
facilities.
         (f)   No events are allowed to be hosted on the premises.
      (8)   Garbage. All garbage must be kept in rubbish containers that are
stored out of view of a public street.
      (9)   Signage. No signage pertaining to the short term vacation rental is
allowed on the property.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
SPECIFIC PUBLIC, SOCIAL OR HEALTHCARE USES
§ 154.190 HEALTHCARE AND INTERMENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Cemetery, mausoleum, columbarium. No burial sites or structures shall
be located closer than 50 feet from any property line.
   (B)   Funeral home or mortuary. All principal and accessory structures and
uses shall be a minimum of 25 feet from any lot line.
   (C)   Hospital.
      (1)   These buildings shall be located on a major street and access shall
be located so that access can be provided without generating significant
traffic on local residential streets.
      (2)   Internal traffic circulation shall be designed to minimize traffic
within 100 feet of any abutting residential property.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.191 INSTITUTIONS.
   Place of worship.
   (A)   These buildings shall be located on a major street and access shall be
located so that access can be provided without generating significant traffic
on local residential streets.
   (B)   An off-street passenger loading area shall be provided in order to
maintain vehicular and pedestrian safety.
   (C)   Outdoor recreational and play areas shall be located at least 25 feet
from any lot in a residential district.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.192 EDUCATION.
   (A)   Child care facility.
      (1)   Access shall be located so that access can be provided without
generating significant traffic on local residential streets.
      (2)   Student drop-off and loading areas shall not interfere with traffic
and pedestrian movements.
      (3)   An outdoor play area shall be provided that contains at least 40
square feet per student enrolled at the facility.
      (4)   Outdoor recreational and play areas shall be located at least 25
feet from any lot in a residential district.
   (B)   School, college/university/trade/business.
      (1)   The lot area shall be a minimum of two acres and all principal
structures and uses shall be a minimum of 40 feet from any lot line.
      (2)   Access shall be located so that access can be provided without
generating significant traffic on local residential streets.
      (3)   An off-street passenger loading area shall be provided in order to
maintain vehicular and pedestrian safety.
      (4)   Outdoor recreational and play areas shall be located at least 25
feet from any lot in a residential district.
   (C)   School, elementary or secondary.
      (1)   The lot area shall be a minimum of two acres and all principal
structures and uses shall be a minimum of 40 feet from any lot line.
      (2)   Access shall be located so that access can be provided without
generating significant traffic on local residential streets.
      (3)   An off-street passenger loading area shall be provided in order to
maintain vehicular and pedestrian safety.
      (4)   Outdoor recreational and play areas shall be located at least 25
feet from any lot in a residential district.
   (D)   School, nursery or preschool.
      (1)   Access shall be located so that access can be provided without
generating significant traffic on local residential streets.
      (2)   Student drop-off and loading areas shall not interfere with traffic
and pedestrian movements.
      (3)   An outdoor play area shall be provided that contains at least 40
square feet per student enrolled at the school.
      (4)   Outdoor recreational and play areas shall be located at least 25
feet from any lot in a residential district.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.193 RECREATION AND OPEN SPACE.
   Golf course/country club.
   (A)   No building shall be located within 100 feet of any property line.
   (B)   Facilities such as restaurants and bars may be permitted when
conducted and entered from within the building.
   (C)   Swimming pools, tennis courts and the like shall be located not less
than 25 feet from any property line and adjoining property in any residential
or commercial district shall be effectively protected by a wall, hedge and/or
screen planting.
   (D)   Golf driving platforms shall be not less than 200 feet from any
adjacent residential district or existing dwelling.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.194 GOVERNMENT SERVICES.
   Municipal, county, state or federal administrative or service building. All
service drives shall be paved.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
SPECIFIC COMMERCIAL USES
§ 154.205 FOOD AND BEVERAGE SERVICES.
   (A)   Off-sale liquor. The business shall have a current license in
compliance with state standards for off-sale liquor.
   (B)   Drive-through or drive-in businesses.
      (1)   Drive-through facilities and stacking areas shall not be within 100
feet of any parcel that is zoned residential, or has an occupied institutional
building, including but not limited to schools, religious institutions and
community centers unless the entire facility and stacking areas are separated
from said parcel by a building wall.
      (2)   Drive-through facilities and stacking areas shall be designed to
meet the following:
         (a)   Located where they will not interfere with parking spaces,
aisles, loading areas, through traffic, vehicle or pedestrian circulation, or
driveway access;
         (b)   Allow drivers not using the drive-through, or wishing to exit
the drive-through area, to bypass the drive-through lane(s);
         (c)   Drive-through windows, drop boxes, menu boards, and associated
or similar structures shall be located to the rear or side of the principal
building, and must incorporate landscape screening, decorative fences, walls,
or a combination of these elements to minimize their view from the street;
         (d)   Only one lane shall be provided for queuing; where feasibly this
lane shall be a minimum of three stacking spaces leading to the menu or other
first point of contact;
         (e)   Queuing areas shall be designed so that queues will not block or
intersect the sidewalk or road right-of-way;
         (f)   Curb-cut entrances for queuing driveways and exit driveways
shall be consolidated with any other driveway entrances or exits on the site;
         (g)   Curb-cut entrances to the site shall be located so that access
can be provided without generating significant traffic on local residential
streets;
         (h)   Drive-through lanes should not interfere with building
entrances;
         (i)   Pedestrian access shall be provided from each abutting street to
the primary entrance with a continuous four-foot wide sidewalk or delineated
walkway. Pedestrian walkways should not intersect the drive-through drive
aisles, but where they do the walkways shall have clear visibility and shall be
delineated by textured and colored paving.
      (3)   All drive-through lanes shall be clearly identified using striping,
landscaping, and/or signs.
      (4)   Adequate area shall be designated for snow storage such that clear
visibility shall be maintained from the property to any public street.
      (5)   Any canopy as part of this use shall be compatible with the
architectural design and materials of the principal structure.
      (6)   Where feasible, drive-through windows, drop boxes, menu boards, and
associated or similar structures should be located to the rear or side of the
principal building, and must incorporate landscape screening, decorative
fences, walls, or a combination of these elements to minimize their view from
the street.
      (7)   All new lighting must be LED, fully shielded, be no brighter than
needed for the task, and shine only where it is needed. Lights should have a
correlated color temperature (CCT) of 3,000 Kelvin or lower, and dim or turn
off at 11:00 p.m. or one hour after close of business, whichever is later.
Existing lighting should be retrofitted or replaced to meet these standards.
      (8)   Menu boards must be no brighter than needed for the task, be lit
with LED lights of a CCT no higher than 5,000 Kelvin (ideally 4,000 Kelvin or
lower), and be turned off when the drive-through closes.
      (9)   Any associated speaker system shall emit no more than 50 decibels
and at no time shall any speaker system be audible above daytime ambient noise
levels beyond the property lines of the site. The system shall be designed to
compensate for ambient noise levels in the immediate area.
      (10)   When a drive-through facility is adjacent to a residential use,
the additional following shall apply:
         (a)   Fencing, screening, berming, or a combination thereof at least
three feet in height shall be installed between drive-through facilities,
including stacking areas, and adjacent residential uses to block direct
lighting from headlights.
         (b)   A lighting plan shall be required showing the proposed lighting
of the site. The illumination measurement at the property lot line adjacent to
a residential use may not exceed 0.30 footcandles.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020; Ord. 1.2-2021, passed 2-10-2021)
§ 154.206 OTHER SERVICES.
   (A)   Animal/pet services.
      (1)   Animal hospitals shall be located no closer than 100 feet to any
residential district, restaurant, hotel or motel in any district and shall show
that adequate measures and controls will be taken to prevent offensive noise
and odor. No incineration of refuse shall be permitted on the premises.
      (2)   Animal daycare center:
         (a)   An odor mitigation plan shall be provided to demonstrate how
impacts from odors will be minimized.
         (b)   All outdoor areas for animals shall be enclosed with a fence.
         (c)   A facility sharing a common building wall, ceiling, or floor
plate with another use or structure must provide engineering detail
demonstrating sound attenuation to STC rating of 55 or higher for such common
walls and ceilings. Noise testing by a qualified noise professional may be
required as a condition of approval prior to issuance of a building certificate
of occupancy.
         (d)   All outdoor designated areas for animals shall be located a
minimum of 125 feet from a residential property line.
         (e)   An indoor facility must be located at a minimum of 50 feet from
a residential property line.
         (f)   Overnight boarding of animals shall not be permitted.
   (B)   Kennel/animal boarding.
      (1)   All kennels shall hold a valid license with the city, reviewed and
renewed annually.
      (2)   No animal shall be boarded or have overnight sleeping facilities
outdoors.
      (3)   An odor mitigation plan shall be provided to demonstrate how
impacts from odors will be minimized.
      (4)   All outdoor areas for animals shall be enclosed with a fence.
      (5)   A facility sharing a common building wall, ceiling, or floor plate
with another use or structure must provide engineering detail demonstrating
sound attenuation to STC rating of 55 or higher for such common walls and
ceilings. Noise testing by a qualified noise professional may be required as a
condition of approval prior to issuance of a building certificate of occupancy.
      (6)   All outdoor designated areas for animals shall be located a minimum
of 125 feet from a residential property line.
      (7)   All indoor facilities must be located at a minimum of 50 feet from
a residential property line.
      (8)   No incineration of refuse shall be permitted on the premises.
   (C)   Services otherwise allowed with drive-through or drive-in. See
standards established in §
154.205(B).
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020; Ord. 1.2-2021, passed 2-10-2021; Ord. 6.2-2021,
passed 6-23-2021)
§ 154.207 RETAIL.
   Shopping center. Access shall be to a roadway identified in the
comprehensive plan as a collector or arterial or shall be otherwise located so
that access can be provided without generating significant traffic on local
residential streets.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.208 ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT.
   Commercial recreation facility, outdoor.
   (A)   These uses and structures shall be located on minor arterial roadways
or collector roadways or nonresidential streets.
   (B)   All structures shall be a minimum of 50 feet from any residential
district boundary.
   (C)   Lights used to illuminate the premises shall be so directed and
shielded as not to be an annoyance to traffic or developed residential
property.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
SPECIFIC INDUSTRIAL AND MANUFACTURING USES
§ 154.220 SMALL PRODUCTION/COMMERCIAL PRODUCTION.
   (A)   Brewery, winery or distillery.
      (1)   Compliance with all applicable provisions of state and local law
and all required licenses shall be obtained.
      (2)   Owner/operator shall install all standard or necessary equipment to
ensure that detectable odors coming from brewing/distilling operation are
eliminated to prevent odors from presenting a public nuisance.
      (3)   No exterior storage allowed including but not limited to: brewing/
distilling equipment, product, raw materials or waste materials.
      (4)   A loading and unloading area for all trucks greater than 22 feet in
length must be provided off-street.
      (5)   Facilities within the C-1, C-2 or C-3 Districts shall also meet the
following:
         (a)   The facility shall not produce more than 20,000 barrels of malt
liquor, wine or spirits per year.
         (b)   A taproom and/or retail outlet is required and shall be located
along the primary storefront of the building.
         (c)   The taproom and/or retail outlet shall occupy a minimum of 20%
of the gross floor area with no maximum limit.
         (d)   Alcohol produced off-site shall not be sold on-site, this
includes both on-sale and off-sale transactions.
   (B)   Makerspace (studio).
      (1)   This use may also include associated facilities such as offices and
small scale warehousing, but distribution is limited to vans and small trucks.
Distribution access shall be from the rear.
      (2)   A showroom or retail outlet is permitted.
      (3)   Distribution shall be from a designated loading area only.
   (C)   Rental storage units (self-storage facility).
      (1)   Facility shall consist of a permanent structure(s) only; temporary/
mobile storage units, such as storage pods and shipping containers, are
prohibited.
      (2)   Individual storage units shall be used for dead storage only.
Storage units shall not be used for retail, commercial, human habitation,
office, workshop, studio, hobby or rehearsal area, manufacturing or processing
of goods or repair/service of autos or equipment. Auctions, garage or estate
sales are prohibited.
      (3)   Storage of flammable, hazardous or perishable materials and keeping
of animals is prohibited.
      (4)   Outdoor storage is prohibited, including vehicles and boats.
      (5)   All doors to the storage units shall be internally accessed; doors
shall be internally facing and shall not face any street or property line.
      (6)   The entire facility shall be secured by either the walls of the
structure(s) and/or fencing.
      (7)   All areas intended for driving, parking and loading shall be paved
with asphalt or concrete.
      (8)   Mini-storage facilities adjacent to residential properties shall
not operate or allow tenant access between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m.
      (9)   The overall height of light fixtures installed to illuminate
parking lots and exterior grounds shall not exceed the height of any principal
structure.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.221 INDOOR INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY.
   Grain elevators and fertilizer manufacturing, storage.
   (A)   The uses shall be located no closer than 200 feet to any residential
districts.
   (B)   Adequate parking and loading areas shall be provided.
   (C)   Adequate ingress and egress shall be provided and shall be designed to
minimize traffic hazard and congestion.
   (D)   Applicants shall show that odor, dust, noise and drainage shall not
constitute a nuisance to surrounding areas.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.222 OUTDOOR INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Automobile wrecking yard/scrap or salvage storage yard.
      (1)   Compliance with all necessary state and local licensing as well as
with all state and federal environmental regulations.
      (2)   Travelways through the storage yard shall be maintained to allow
for fire and emergency access.
      (3)   A landscape buffer area of at least 15 feet shall be provided along
the frontage of the property with a minimum of 150 plant units per every 100
lineal feet.
      (4)   All buildings shall include an automatic fire sprinkler system.
      (5)   All vehicle fluid draining shall be conducted within a building.
      (6)   Vertical stacking of vehicles shall not be permitted on the
property where they are visible from public right-of-way or adjacent
properties.
      (7)   Hours of operation, including deliveries and hauling to and from
the property, shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
      (8)   All petroleum products, anti-freeze and hazardous materials shall
be disposed of in accordance with local and state regulations.
      (9)   Any buildings, salvage yard, salvage parking areas, vehicle
crusher, loading areas and dumpsters as well as any outdoor storage areas or
equipment shall be enclosed within an opaque perimeter fence eight feet in
height. The fence shall be faced with aluminum or galvanized steel panels and
coated with a non-reflective neutral earth tone color.
      (10)   Storage kept outside of a building shall not be located in the
required front yard.
   (B)   Contractor yard (landscaping, construction, etc.)
      (1)   Outside storage of materials and equipment shall be fully screened
with a fence or wall at 100% opacity to the height of six feet, from public
roads and adjacent residential properties and shall otherwise meet the
provisions outlined in § 154.312.
      (2)   Buildings, parking areas, loading areas and outside storage shall
meet the setback requirements of the applicable zoning district.
      (3)   All motorized vehicles, including trucks and trailers and machinery
stored in the outside storage area shall be licensed and in operable condition.
      (4)   No operation or activity shall emit any hazardous substances in
such quantity, concentration, or duration as to be injurious to human health or
property. If hazardous materials are stored and used on the property, a
materials management plan shall be submitted to address storage, handling, use,
disposal and potential hazards.
   (C)   Outdoor storage, manufacturing and sales area.
      (1)   Use shall be surrounded by a solid fence or evergreen planting
screen completely preventing a view from any other property or public right of
way and shall be at least 600 feet from residential districts.
      (2)   Inflammable liquid storage in industrial/manufacturing districts
         (a)   Aboveground storage of quantities over 1,000 gallons of
materials or products rated as fast-burning, or which produce flammable or
explosive vapors or gasses, will be permitted only in the industrial/
manufacturing district; provided that, the storage area is not less than 600
feet distant from any other zoning district.
         (b)   The storage area must be provided with adequate safety devices
against the hazard of fire and explosion and adequate fire suppression and
firefighting equipment and devices standard to the industry.
      (3)   Bulk storage (liquid, gas, grain and the like)
         (a)   Above and below ground storage tanks, bins, elevators and the
like shall be regulated in accordance with applicable city, state and federal
regulations, including the applicable building codes, State Fire Code and
regulations of the Pollution Control Agency.
         (b)   All necessary federal, state and local permits and approvals
shall be obtained.
         (c)   The Council may require that all existing aboveground liquid in
free state storage tanks having a capacity of 300 gallons or more be diked, and
suitably sealed, to hold a leakage capacity equal to 115% of tank capacity, and
also have State Fire Marshal approval.
         (d)   No storage tanks containing flammable or combustible materials
shall be located less than 200 feet from a residential district, except those
used on individual properties for heating individual homes.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
SPECIFIC AGRICULTURAL AND NATURAL RESOURCES
§ 154.235 NATURAL RESOURCES.
   (A)   Community solar farm. Community solar farms shall be subject to the
requirements set for conditional use permits as established in §
154.067 and the following additional performance standards:
      (1)   Foundations. A professional licensed engineer in the state of
Minnesota shall certify that the foundation and design of the solar panels is
within accepted professional standards, given local soil and climate
conditions.
      (2)   Vegetation requirements and management. The following provisions
shall be met related to the clearing of existing vegetation and establishment
of vegetated ground cover. Additional requirements may apply as required by the
City Council.
         (a)   Large-scale removal of mature trees on the site is discouraged.
Restrictions on tree clearing or mitigation for cleared trees may be required
by the City Council.
         (b)   The project site design shall include the installation and
establishment of vegetative ground cover.
            1.   The ground cover should provide pollinator habitat or meet the
beneficial habitat standards consistent with M.S. § 216B.1642, as may be
amended from time to time, as set by the Minnesota Board of Water and Soil
Resources.
            2.   Accessory uses of ground cover, such as beneficial crop
growth, or feeding fields for sheep and goats, may be considered at the time of
application and permitted with conditions by the City Council.
            3.   The applicant shall submit a financial guarantee in the form
of a letter of credit, cash deposit or bond in favor of the city equal to 125%
of the costs to meet the beneficial habitat standard. The financial guarantee
shall remain in effect until vegetation is sufficiently established.
      (3)   Other standards and codes. All community solar farms shall comply
with any applicable local, state and federal regulatory standards, including
the State of Minnesota Uniform Building Code, as amended; the National Electric
Code, as amended; the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES),
as amended; and shall be in compliance with all applicable federal, state and
local wetland laws, rules and regulations, as amended.
      (4)   Power and communication lines. Power and communication lines
running between banks of solar panels, to electric substations, among other
project elements and providing interconnections with buildings shall be buried
underground. Exemptions may be granted by the City Council in instances where
shallow bedrock, water courses or other elements of the natural landscape
interfere with the ability to bury lines.
      (5)   Setbacks. Community solar farms must meet the minimum principal
building setback for the zoning district and be located a minimum of 300 feet
from a residential dwelling unit not located on the property. Setbacks shall be
measured to the nearest solar array or other structure within the community
solar farm, excluding security fencing, screening or berm.
      (6)   Maximum height. Ground mounted systems shall not exceed 25 feet in
height at maximum ground tilt.
      (7)   Screening. Community solar farms shall be screened from residential
dwelling units as follows when there is less than 1,000 feet of separation
between the solar array and residential dwelling:
         (a)   Screening shall consist of earth mounds or berms; neutral
colored fences; or landscaping used in combination or singularly so as to block
direct visual access and to mitigate potential glare concerns.
         (b)   The use of berming and landscaping shall be 80% opaque at the
time of maturity. Planting screens shall consist of healthy plant materials at
least six feet in height at the time of planting.
         (c)   Screening fences that are in disrepair shall be repaired.
Planting screens shall be maintained in a neat and healthy condition with
plantings that have died being replaced within the current or next growing
season.
         (d)   Applicant shall provide mitigation of glare issues, failure to
mitigate will be a violation of the CUP.
      (8)   Solar panels must be removed and properly disposed of if they are
out of production for more than one year unless the City Council grants an
extension of time for their removal.
      (9)   Application requirements. The following information shall be
provided to the city as part of the CUP permit:
         (a)   A site plan of existing conditions showing the following:
            1.   Existing property lines and property lines extending 300 feet
from the exterior boundaries, including the names of the adjacent property
owners and current use of those properties.
            2.   Existing public and private roads, showing widths of the roads
and any associated easements.
            3.   Location and size of any existing or abandoned wells and
sewage treatment systems.
            4.   Existing buildings and any impervious surface.
            5.   Topography at two foot intervals and source of contour
interval, a contour map of surrounding properties may also be required.
            6.   Existing vegetation (list type and percent of coverage; i.e.
grassland, pasture, plowed field, wooded areas, etc.).
            7.   Waterways, watercourses, lakes and public water wetlands.
            8.   Level 2 wetland delineation required. Other levels may be
appropriate if approved by the Zoning Administrator or City Engineer.
            9.   The 100-year flood elevation and regulatory flood protection
elevation, if applicable.
            10.   Floodway, flood fringe and/or general floodplain district
boundary, if applicable.
            11.   Surface water drainage patterns.
            12.   Mapped soils according to the Dodge County Soil Survey.
         (b)   Site plan of proposed conditions:
            1.   Location and spacing of solar panels.
            2.   Location of access roads.
            3.   Planned location of underground or overhead electric lines
connecting the solar farm to the building, substation or other electric load.
            4.   New electrical equipment other than at the existing building
or substation that is the connection point for the solar farm.
            5.   Sketch elevation of the premises accurately depicting the
proposed solar energy conversion system and its relationship to structures on
adjacent lots (if any).
         (c)   Manufacturer's specifications and recommended installation
methods for all major equipment, including solar panels, mounting systems and
foundations for poles or racks.
         (d)   The number of panels to be installed.
         (e)   A description of the method of connecting the array to a
building or substation.
         (f)   Visual impact analysis. An analysis of the potential visual
impacts from the project including solar panels, roads and fencing along with
measures to avoid, minimize or mitigate the visual effects shall be required. A
plan may be required showing vegetative screening or buffering of the system
from those items to mitigate for visual impacts.
         (g)   A copy of the interconnection agreement with the local electric
utility or a written explanation outlining why an interconnection agreement is
not necessary.
         (h)   A decommissioning plan shall be required to ensure that
facilities are properly removed after their useful life.
            1.   Decommissioning of solar panels must occur in the event they
are not in use for 12 consecutive months. The plan shall include provisions for
removal of all structures and foundations, restoration of soil and vegetation
and a plan ensuring financial resources will be available to fully decommission
the site. Disposal of structures and/or foundations shall meet all applicable
rules and regulations to proper disposal.
            2.   To ensure proper decommissioning, the applicant shall provide
a financial surety by posting a bond, letter of credit or the establishment of
an escrow account at a rate of $25,000 per MW or fraction thereof for community
solar farms and at a rate of $500 per acre for private solar gardens.
         (i)   Any financial surety arrangement shall be approved by the City
Attorney’s Office as to form and issuing bank.
            1.   The issuing bank must be an FDIC insured bank.
            2.   The issuing bank must be available in its entirety to fulfill
the obligations of developer under the agreement.
            3.   Any letter of credit to the city shall contain language
requiring its automatic renewal prior to December 31 of each calendar year,
unless cancellation of the letter of credit is specifically approved in writing
by the city.
      (10)   KPU interconnect agreement. The owner of a solar energy system
that will physically connect to a house or other building's electrical system
and/or the electric utility grid must enter into a signed interconnection
agreement with Kasson Public Utilities prior to the issuance of a building
permit.
      (11)   Easements. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
secure/provide any desired solar easement by Kasson Public Utilities to protect
solar access for the system (per M.S. § 500.30).
      (12)   Installation. Solar energy systems shall be installed only by
licensed contractors.
   (B)   Short wave towers, radio and TV towers and commercial radio and
television towers and transmitters.
      (1)   Permit required. No short wave tower shall be placed or erected on
any property in any district within the city for the purpose of which a
conditional use permit has not been issued.
      (2)   Required exhibits. In addition to exhibits required for all
conditional use permit applications, the following shall be submitted with a
completed application and a fee for processing the application: scaled drawing
showing all property lines, existing buildings, above and below ground
utilities on the property and the proposed location of the tower.
   (C)   Wind energy conversion systems (WECS).
      (1)   Plans. Each application for a conditional use permit shall be
accompanied by a dimensional representation of the tower including the
conversion system, base and footings and an accurate plan containing the
following information:
         (a)   Property lines;
         (b)   Proposed location of tower on site;
         (c)   Location of all existing structures on site;
         (d)   All aboveground utility lines;
         (e)   All underground utility lines within a radius equal to the
proposed WECS height; and
         (f)   Boundaries of all adjacent utility easements or reversed areas.
      (2)   WECS height. The total height of the tower (including any portion
of the rotor or axis extending above the tower) shall not exceed the horizontal
distance between the base of the tower and the nearest lot line or building
line; except that, the horizontal distance may extend beyond the nearest lot
line or building line provided there are not overhead utility lines or
easements therefor or if the abutting area is a public alleyway. Furthermore,
the City Council may allow the height requirement to be exceeded; provided, it
is satisfied that the proposed structure will withstand the wind loads in the
area. As evidence of this, the City Council shall require the following
information:
         (a)   Dimensional representation of the various structural components
of the tower construction including the base and footings;
         (b)   Design data which shall indicate basis of design, including
manufacturer's dimensional drawings, installation and operation instructions;
and
         (c)   Certification by an independent registered professional engineer
that the proposed structure will withstand wind loads in the area.
      (3)   Tower access. Climbing access to the WECS tower shall be limited
either by means of a fence six feet high around the tower base with a locking
portal or by limiting tower climbing apparatus to no lower than 12 feet from
the ground.
      (4)   Wind access. Contiguous property owners and planned developments
may construct a WECS for their use in common. If property held by more than one
single owner is used to meet the setback requirements, a site plan establishing
easements or reserved areas must be submitted for approval.
      (5)   Noise. A WECS operation shall not produce noise in excess of the
limits established by state standards.
      (6)   Limited use. WECS installed in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter shall not generate power as a commercial enterprise as defined by
the Public Utilities Commission.
      (7)   Electromagnetic interference. A WECS shall not be installed in any
location along the major axis of an existing microwave communications link
where the level of electromagnetic interference may have possible effect on the
microwave communications link.
      (8)   Airspace. A WECS shall be located or installed in compliance with
the regulations of the airport approach zones and federal aviation regulations
for clearance around VOR and DVOR stations.
      (9)   Interconnect. A WECS, if interconnected to an electric utility
distribution system, shall meet the interconnect requirements of the electric
utility company. In any case, the interconnect shall include a manual
disconnect which complies with the National Electric Code.
      (10)   Codes. Construction and installation of a WECS shall comply with
all city code provisions, state and National Electrical Codes in effect at the
time of installation.
      (11)   Liability. No building permit shall be issued for the construction
of a WECS until and unless the applicant for the building permit deposits with
the City Administrator a policy of liability insurance indemnifying applicant
from liability for personal injury or property damage in the sum of at least
$500,000. The policy of insurance so deposited shall contain a clause
obligating the company issuing the same to give at least 30 days' written
notice to the city before cancellation thereof, the building permit to be
automatically revoked upon the lapse or termination of the policy.
   (D)   Wireless communications facilities.
      (1)   Purpose.
         (a)   The purpose of this division is to establish regulations that
protect the public health, safety and general welfare of the community, for the
siting, construction and maintenance of wireless communication towers (WCT) and
similar facilities within the city. This does not pertain to amateur radio or
receive only antennas or structures.
         (b)   The regulations of this division are intended to:
            1.   Maximize the use of existing approved structures for siting
new antennas in order to reduce the number of new towers needed to serve the
community;
            2.   Provide for the appropriate location and development of
antennas and towers within the city;
            3.   Minimize adverse visual effects of wireless communication
towers through siting standards; and
            4.   Utilize standard structural and setback requirements to avoid
potential damage to adjacent properties from antenna and tower failure.
      (2)   Conditional use. Wireless communication towers and similar
facilities are a conditional use within all zoning districts subject to the
following performance standards. Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to erect, construct, place, replace or structurally
repair any wireless communication tower or adjoining/accessory structures
without first making application to the Zoning Administrator and securing
appropriate permit approval. Building permits are not required for adjustment
or replacement of the elements of an antenna array affixed to a tower or
antenna. All applications shall be accompanied by a coverage/interference and
capacity analysis, including a technical evaluation of existing and proposed
transmissions indicating all potential interference problems including, but not
limited to, residential broadcast reception and public safety communications.
All applications must demonstrate compliance with all existing FCC, FAA,
Uniform Building Code and other pertinent regulations. As regulations change,
wireless communication operators must demonstrate continued compliance at their
expense. All subsequent co-locators must apply for individual building and
conditional use permits in conformance to this subchapter.
      (3)   Permitted locations.
         (a)   No wireless communication tower shall be erected in the city
unless the applicant demonstrates that the equipment planned for the purpose of
the proposed wireless communication cannot be accommodated on an existing or
approved tower, building or structure within a one-mile search radius of the
proposed tower due to one or more of the following reasons:
            1.   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of
the existing or approved structure, as documented by a qualified and licensed
professional engineer; and the existing or approved structure cannot be
reinforced, modified or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent equipment
at a reasonable cost;
            2.   The planed equipment would cause interference materially
impacting the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or
building as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer and
the interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost;
            3.   Existing or approved wireless communication towers and
buildings within the search radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at
a height necessary to function reasonably as documented by a qualified and
licensed professional engineer; and/or
            4.   Other unforeseen reasons that make it infeasible to locate the
planned equipment upon an existing or approved structure.
         (b)   Wireless communication towers are permitted with a conditional
use in areas with the following uses:
            1.   Industrial, manufacturing, commercial and agricultural;
            2.   Parks and public open space when sited and designed to be
compatible with the nature of the site;
            3.   Government, school and public utility structures; and
            4.   Places of worship.
      (4)   Design standards. All applications must meet the following minimum
requirements:
         (a)   All towers and antennas shall comply with all FCC and FAA rules
and regulations. Wireless communication towers attached to a building or
existing structure shall comply with the setbacks of the zoning district and
shall not exceed 20 feet in height beyond the top of the primary structure.
Freestanding towers shall be set back one foot from any property line or
building for each one foot of structural height. Freestanding towers shall not
be located in a front yard, nor shall any part of the antenna or tower extend
across or over any part of the public right-of-way, street, highway or
sidewalk.
         (b)   Towers should be located in areas that provide the maximum
possible amount of natural or existing structural screening for off-site view.
         (c)   Towers shall be self-supporting without the use of wires,
cables, beams or other means, the design should utilize an open framework or
monopole configuration that is designed to collapse in on itself in the event
of structural damage. Design and installation of towers and antennas shall
comply with all applicable federal and state standards, including FCC and FAA
standards and the current Uniform Building Code and shall be approved and
stamped by a licensed professional structural engineer.
         (d)   Towers shall be designed to allow the future co-location of
equipment at varying heights. Tower operators are required to accept co-
location of communication equipment if reasonable and necessary to conform to §
154.235(D)(2)and shall not make such co-location economically unfeasible.
Towers over 150 feet in height shall be designed for co-location of at least
three additional antennas. Towers of 125 feet to less than 150 feet shall be
designed for co-location of at least two additional antennas. Towers of 100
feet to less than 125 feet shall be designed for co-location of at least one
additional antenna. Subsequent co-locators are subject to the same provisions
and procedures as the primary conditional use applicant.
         (e)   Towers shall not be illuminated by artificial means unless the
light is required by federal (FAA) or state regulations; or used to illuminate
ball fields, parking lots or similar areas; or for crime preventative measures.
         (f)   The use of any portion of a tower for signs other than required
warning or equipment information is prohibited. All mechanical and utility
equipment shall be enclosed in an approved structure or cabinet; all buildings
and structures shall meet the minimum performance standards in that zoning
district.
         (g)   The ground level perimeter may be required to be screened with
pre-approved landscaping and/or fencing at the operator's expense. The tower
shall be reasonably protected against unauthorized access and vandalism.
         (h)   All construction, installation, wiring and maintenance of towers
shall not create a safety hazard or damage to the property of others, nor
interfere with public safety communications.
         (i)   Operators shall remove abandoned, unused towers and similar
facilities within 12 months of the cessation of operations and restore the area
to its original condition. Failure to abide by this condition will result in
the city removing the structure and assessing costs to the property or
operator.
         (j)   All wireless communication facilities that are in existence as
of the date of the ordinance codified in this section may continue to operate,
but may not be replaced or structurally altered without complying in all
respects to this code. This does not include routine adjustment or replacement
of the primary or co-location antennae.
         (k)   When the property's use no longer conforms to this division, any
existing tower shall be removed prior to preliminary plat approval or building
permit issuance, whichever occurs first.
      (5)   Penalty.
         (a)   Any building or structure being erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building,
structure or sign hereafter erected or maintained, or land use made or
permitted in violation of this chapter, is declared unlawful. In the event of a
violation, or threatened violation of this chapter, the City Council or the
Zoning Administrator may institute appropriate actions or proceedings to
prevent, restrain, correct or abate the violation or threatened violation.
         (b)   Any person, firm, corporation or entity who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punishable
as defined by law.
            1.   Each day that a violation is committed, or permitted to exist,
shall constitute a separate offense. The imposition of any fine or sentence
shall not exempt the offender from compliance with the requirements of this
chapter, and the city may pursue, by appropriate actions or proceedings, any or
all additional remedies.
            2.   The City Council may, at its discretion, impose a civil
penalty of $500 upon any person or business entity which violates any provision
of this chapter in lieu of criminally prosecuting the violation.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020; Ord. 6.1-2021, passed 6-23-2021)
SPECIFIC TRANSPORTATION USES
§ 154.245 TRANSPORTATION USES.
   (A)   Automobile fuel station/service station.
      (1)   Setbacks. When adjacent to residential districts, the service
station, outdoor displays, tanks, pumps and other structures shall be a minimum
of 25 feet from adjoining property.
      (2)   Curb and gutter. Concrete curb and gutter shall be installed on all
streets giving access to the station.
      (3)   Fencing and screening. When adjacent to residential property, there
shall be a screening fence on the property line abutting residential property.
When adjacent to commercial or industrial property, there shall be a bumper-
type fence approximately 18 inches high between the station and the adjacent
commercial or industrial property.
      (4)   Vehicles. No vehicles shall be parked on the premises other than
those utilized by employees or those awaiting service. No vehicle shall be
parked or be waiting for service longer than 15 days.
      (5)   Exterior storage and outdoor display. Exterior storage besides
vehicles shall be limited to service equipment and items offered for sale.
Exterior storage of items offered for sale shall be within yard setback
requirements and shall be located in containers such as racks, metal trays and
similar structures designed to display merchandise.
      (6)   Screening. All areas utilized for the storage or disposal of trash,
debris, discarded parts and similar items shall be fully screened. All
structures and grounds shall be maintained in an orderly, clean and safe
manner.
      (7)   Lighting. Lights shall be designed and placed in a manner as to
direct the light away from residential areas.
   (B)   Automobile repair, major.
      (1)   Screening. Should the site abut an R district an acceptable design
of screening six feet in height shall be constructed along the abutting lot
line(s);
      (2)   Vehicles. No vehicles shall be parked on the premises other than
those utilized by employees or those awaiting service. No vehicle shall be
parked or be waiting for service longer than 15 days.
      (3)   Outdoor activity. All repair, assembly, disassembly or maintenance
of vehicles shall occur within an enclosed building, except minor maintenance
including tire inflation, adding oil, and wiper or battery replacement, glass
repair or replacement, paintless dent repair and the like.
      (4)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage of parts, materials or equipment
is prohibited. No outside storage or display except licensed vehicles awaiting
repair or repaired vehicles awaiting pick up.
   (C)   Car washes. The owner shall submit to the City of Kasson a waste
disposal plan showing that all washing liquid, chemicals, and runoff shall be
disposed of properly, and shall not enter the storm sewer system; this plan
shall require review and approval by the City Engineer, City Public Works
Director and the City Zoning Administrator prior to the use commencing.
   (D)   Parking lot, garage, ramp or structure as a principal use.
      (1)   Fencing and screening. When adjacent to residential property, there
shall be a screening fence on the property line abutting residential property.
When adjacent to commercial or industrial property, there shall be a bumper-
type fence approximately 18 inches high between the parking lot and the
adjacent commercial or industrial property.
      (2)   Entrances/access. Access to the parking spaces shall be from an
internal drive aisle, no parking spaces shall be allowed to back into a public
street.
   (E)   Public transportation terminals. Vehicles shall not be permitted to
use the terminal parking lot for more than 24 consecutive hours
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
SPECIFIC ACCESSORY USES
§ 154.255 ACCESSORY TO ALL USES.
   (A)   Accessory parking lot.
      (1)   On-site accessory parking. Parking lots related to a primary use
must be located on the same lot or contiguous to the principal operation
      (2)   Off-site accessory parking. Parking lots serving a primary use on a
different parcel may only be located in the same zoning district as the primary
use.
   (B)   Accessory structure.
      (1)   Permit and certificate requirements. No accessory structure larger
than 200 square feet shall be placed, erected or constructed prior to the
issuance of a building permit for the purpose of the activity. No accessory
structure shall be placed, constructed or erected on a lot where a permitted
principal structure has not been constructed. No accessory structure shall be
constructed or erected which does not comply with the State Building Code.
      (2)   Size and flooring. Accessory structures 200 square feet or more
shall require placement on a nonporous flooring such as concrete or bituminous.
Accessory structures not requiring nonporous flooring shall be secured by being
tied or anchored to the ground.
      (3)   Attached. An accessory structure, including car ports and
breezeways, attached to the principal structure on a lot, shall be made
structurally a part thereof, and shall be considered a part thereof and shall
comply in all respects with the requirements of this chapter applicable to the
principal structure.
      (4)   Detached.
         (a)   All detached accessory structures shall be located in the side
or rear yards.
         (b)   Accessory structures shall meet the side yard setback of the
principal structure, as required by the district regulations.
         (c)   Accessory structures for residential uses of one or two units,
shall have a rear yard setback of six and one-half feet.
         (d)   Accessory structures for residential uses of three units or
more, or any nonresidential uses, shall meet the rear yard setback of the
principal structure, as required by district regulations.
         (e)   Accessory structures in residential districts shall not exceed
one story or 16 feet in height and shall not occupy more than ten percent of
the lot area. Buildings in excess of 250 square feet shall not be of pole/post
type construction.
   (C)   Satellite dish.
      (1)   Permit required. No satellite dish 36 inches in diameter or more
shall be placed on any property in any district within the city without the
issuance of a conditional use permit.
      (2)   Required exhibits. In addition to exhibits required for all
conditional use permit applications, the following shall be submitted with a
completed application and a fee for processing the application: scaled drawing
showing all property lines, existing buildings, above and below ground
utilities on the property and the proposed location of the satellite dish.
   (D)   Solar energy systems, accessory.
      (1)   Type. In all districts, only building- or roof-mounted systems
shall be permitted; ground- mounted systems aside from community solar farms
are prohibited as an accessory solar energy system.
      (2)   Height. Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not project beyond
the peak of the roof and shall not be more than four feet above the roof
surface to which they are attached.
      (3)   Location within lot. Accessory solar energy systems must meet the
setback of the structure to which it is attached for the zoning district.
         (a)   In addition to the building setback, the collector surface and
mounting devices for the roof-mounted solar systems that are parallel to the
roof surface shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on
which the system is mounted or built. The collector and racking for roof-
mounted systems that have a greater pitch than the roof surface shall be set
back from all roof edges by at least two feet.
         (b)   Exterior piping for solar hot water systems shall be allowed to
extend beyond the perimeter of the building on a side yard exposure.
      (4)   Coverage. Roof-mounted solar energy systems must be of a size and
placed in such a location so as to allow the dwelling/building to be insured
for fire/casualty and liability coverage by any insurance company licensed to
do business in the State of Minnesota. Proof of coverage must be provided by
the owner showing that the roof-mounted solar energy system is specifically
insured and will be required for any permit issued under this section.
      (5)   Feeder lines. All power exterior electrical or other service lines
must be buried below the surface of the ground.
      (6)   Weight. Rooftop solar projects must not overload the designed
weight limit of the roof.
      (7)   Aesthetics. All solar energy systems shall use colors that blend
with the color of the roof or other structure. Reflection angles from collector
surfaces shall be oriented so as not to interfere with the use and enjoyment of
other properties. Where necessary, screening may be required to address glare.
      (8)   Compliance with State Electric Code. All photovoltaic systems shall
comply with the Minnesota State Electrical Code.
      (9)   Compliance with State Plumbing Code. All solar thermal systems
shall comply with the Minnesota State Plumbing Code.
      (10)   Compliance with all applicable federal, state and local wetland
laws, rules and regulations.
      (11)   Application requirements. The following information shall be
provided to the Zoning Administrator as part of the site review process:
         (a)   A site plan of existing conditions showing the following:
            1.   Existing property lines and property lines extending 100 feet
from the exterior boundaries, including the names of the adjacent property
owners and current use of those properties.
            2.   Existing buildings and any impervious surface.
         (b)   Site plan of proposed conditions, showing the following:
            1.   Location and spacing of solar panels.
            2.   Planned location of underground or overhead electric lines
connecting the solar energy system to the building, substation or other
electric load.
            3.   New electrical equipment other than at the existing building
or substation that is the connection point for the solar energy system.
         (c)   Manufacturer's specifications and recommended installation
methods for all major equipment, including solar panels, mounting systems and
foundations for poles or racks.
         (d)   The number of panels to be installed.
      (12)   KPU interconnect agreement. The owner of a solar energy system
that will physically connect to a house or other building's electrical system
and/or the electric utility grid must enter into a signed interconnection
agreement with Kasson Public Utilities prior to the issuance of a building
permit.
      (13)   Easements. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
secure/provide any desired solar easement by Kasson Public Utilities to protect
solar access for the system (per M.S. § 500.30).
      (14)   Installation. Solar energy systems shall be installed only by
licensed contractors.
      (15)   Abandonment. If the solar energy system remains non-functional or
inoperative for more than 12 consecutive months, the system shall constitute a
public nuisance. The owner shall obtain a demolition permit and remove the
abandoned system at their expense. Removal includes the entire structure,
including collector, mount, and transmission equipment.
   (E)   Small-scale wind energy generation system. See standards established
in §
154.235(C).
   (F)   Swimming pools, tennis courts and other individual recreational
facilities.
      (1)   Location. All pools, tennis courts and other individual
recreational facilities shall meet the setback requirements for accessory
structures and recreational appurtenances in the district in which they are
located. Furthermore, pool locations must conform with requirements of National
Electric Code and may not be within any private or public utility, walkway,
drainage or other easements.
      (2)   Additional standards for pools.
         (a)   Application. This section shall apply to all privately owned
swimming pools constructed in the city and to all private swimming pools
constructed in the future as specified herein.
         (b)   Lot coverage. Pools shall not occupy more than five percent of
the lot area.
         (c)   Design. The pool shall be designed and constructed in a manner
so as not to endanger the health and safety of its users and to not unduly
interfere with the use and enjoyment of adjacent property.
         (d)   Drainage. To the extent feasible, back-flush water or water from
pool drainage shall be directed onto the owner's property or onto approved
public drainage ways and shall not drain onto adjacent private land. Pools may
not be drained into the city sanitary sewer system.
         (e)   Other codes. The construction, plumbing and electrical work
connected with any pool shall conform to all other applicable codes of the
city.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020; Ord. 6.1-2021, passed 6-23-2021)
§ 154.256 ACCESSORY TO RESIDENTIAL USES.
   (A)   Accessory dwelling unit (ADU).
      (1)   ADUs shall be attached to the principal structure; ADUs shall be
prohibited in detached accessory structures.
      (2)   Only one ADU may be created per single-family dwelling.
      (3)   ADUs must meet principal structure setbacks.
      (4)   ADUs must meet zoning district height restrictions.
      (5)   An ADU shall meet minimum building code standards for an efficiency
unit.
      (6)   There shall be no more than two occupants per bedroom.
      (7)   The owner(s) of the property must continue to occupy at least one
of the dwelling units on the property as their primary residence, except for a
bona fide temporary absence.
      (8)   All vehicles owned by owners or tenants must be kept on improved
surfaces.
      (9)   A deed restriction shall be created restricting the independent
sale of an ADU and requiring adherence to size limitations and other
requirements found in this chapter.
      (10)   Short-term vacation rental of ADUs shall not be permitted.
      (11)   Home occupations or home businesses shall not be permitted within
the ADU.
      (12)   ADUs shall not have sewer and water connections independent from
the primary residence.
   (B)   Child care facility. Child care facilities are permitted as an
accessory use in any residential district as long as the following standards
are met:
      (1)   Must comply with all state and local standards.
      (2)   The use of any accessory structure for child care is not allowed.
      (3)   Off-street parking shall be provided as follows:
         (a)   Meet the requirements of parking for the dwelling.
         (b)   One space per non-resident employee.
         (c)   One space for pick-up/drop-off.
      (4)   Signage shall be limited to a two by two, non-illuminated sign.
   (C)   Home occupations and home businesses.
      (1)   Purpose.
         (a)   A home occupation is any occupation for gain or support and can
be beneficial to the community in that they provide services to its residents,
as well as supplemental income and personal satisfaction to the residents.
         (b)   A home business is any occupation for gain or support and can be
beneficial to the community in that they provide services to its residents, as
well as supplemental income and personal satisfaction to the residents.
However, a home business may result in activities that may have a negative
impact upon the residential character of the community and surrounding
neighborhood. It is for this reason that a conditional use permit shall be
required for all home businesses, to ensure their compatibility with the
neighborhood in which they are located.
      (2)   Permit required. A conditional use permit shall be required for all
home businesses. Criteria in this section shall be in addition to criteria
identified in §
154.067.
      (3)   Standards.
         (a)   Home occupation. No home occupation shall be allowed which does
not meet the following standards:
            1.   The home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the
home by owner resident occupants only.
            2.   The home occupation shall not require more than 25% of the
area of any floor of the dwelling for such purpose, excluding child care
facilities.
            3.   The home occupation shall not require any structural
alterations or constructions involving features not customarily found in
dwellings.
            4.   The home occupation shall be consistent with and shall not
detract from the residential character of the district in which the home is
located.
            5.   There shall be no outside storage of material or equipment or
display of merchandise.
         (b)   Home business. No home business shall be allowed which does not
meet the following standards:
            1.   The home business shall be conducted entirely on the same
parcel as the home by the owner/resident/occupants only.
            2.   The home business shall not require more than 25% of the area
of any floor of the dwelling for such purpose, excluding child care facilities
and shall not occupy more than 50% of the floor area of any existing accessory
structure.
            3.   The home business shall not require any structural alterations
or construction involving features not customarily found in dwellings or
accessory structures.
            4.   The home business shall be consistent with and shall not
detract from the residential character of the district in which the home is
located.
            5.   There shall be no outside storage of material or equipment or
display of merchandise.
            6.   There shall be no more than one unilluminated name plate,
advertising the business, measuring not more than one and one-half square feet
in area attached on the principal structure near the structure entrance.
      (4)   Additional conditions for home businesses. In determining whether a
particular home business is consistent with the residential character of a
district, the city shall consider the following:
         (a)   Noise, odors, water and air pollution;
         (b)   Vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
         (c)   The use of flammable, explosive or highly volatile materials;
         (d)   Excessive lights or noise at night; and
         (e)   Litter.
   (D)   Outside parking or seasonal storage of recreational travel vehicles.
      (1)   Such vehicles shall be stored on an improved surface, such as a
driveway.
      (2)   Vehicles stored in a street yard shall be operable and currently
licensed.
      (3)   Vehicles shall not be stored in a side yard.
      (4)   Vehicles stored in the rear yard shall be screened at 100% opacity
to a height of six feet.
   (E)   Short-term vacation rental.
      (1)   The maximum number of overnight guests will be limited to two times
the number of bedrooms rented plus one.
      (2)   Events are not allowed to be hosted by transient guests on the
premises. An event means a gathering on the premises of more than three un-
registered transient guests. Events hosted by the property owner are allowed,
but must abide by all applicable city ordinances and polices, including the
prohibition on renting private residential property out for events.
      (3)   Dwelling requirements.
         (a)   The dwelling must be connected to city sewer and water.
         (b)   Rooms used for sleeping shall have an egress windows and smoke
detectors.
         (c)   The guest(s) must have access during their entire stay to a full
bathroom, including sink, toilet and tub or shower.
         (d)   Accommodation of guests is not allowed in recreational vehicles,
tents, accessory structures, fish houses or similar structures.
      (4)   Parking.
         (a)   All guest parking must be accommodated on improved surfaces on
the premises. No on-street parking is allowed for guests.
         (b)   At a minimum, parking shall be provided at the following rate:
            1.   One space for each one to two bedroom rental.
            2.   Two spaces for each three bedroom rental.
            3.   Spaces equal to the number of bedrooms minus one for each four
and four plus bedroom rental.
         (c)   In accessory short-term vacation rentals, additional off-street
parking for personal use must be provided at a rate of one parking space per
two bedrooms not dedicated to the guest use.
      (5)   Proximity of assistance. If not staying on the property at the time
of guest stay, the property owner or a manager/representative must be located
within 30 miles of the property. The property owner shall maintain with the
city the name, address, phone number and email for the local contact or
managing agent for the property.
      (6)   Guest records. A guest record must be maintained, including the
name, address, phone number and vehicle license plate information for all
guests. This record must be provided to the city within 48 hours of a request
for the guest record.
      (7)   Guest disclosures. The property owner must disclose in writing to
their transient guests the following rules and regulations. This disclosure
shall be conspicuously displayed in the home:
         (a)   The name, phone number and address of the owner, operating
lessee or managing agent/representative.
         (b)   The maximum number of guests allowed at the property.
         (c)   The maximum number of vehicles allowed at the property and where
they are to be parked.
         (d)   City nuisance ordinances requirement that noise levels be
reduced between 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. and that this will be enforced by the
Kasson Police.
         (e)   Property rules related to use of outdoor features, such as
decks, patios, grills, recreational fires, saunas and other recreational
facilities.
         (f)   No events are allowed to be hosted on the premises.
      (8)   Garbage. All garbage must be kept in rubbish containers that are
stored out of view of a public street.
      (9)   Signage. No signage pertaining to the short term vacation rental is
allowed on the property.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.257 ACCESSORY TO NONRESIDENTIAL USES.
   (A)   Gift shop accessory to an otherwise allowed use.
      (1)   Maximum of ten percent gross floor area of principal use.
      (2)   Internal entrance (common entrance).
      (3)   Same hours of operation or more limited hours of operation than
principal use.
   (B)   Open air display area.
      (1)   Open air display areas may not be located within required setback
areas and are limited to the lesser of 150 square feet or a maximum of 25% of
the width of a building frontage that contains a customer entrance or exit.
There shall be no more than one building frontage with an outdoor display area.
      (2)   Open air display areas are to be located immediately adjacent to
and within the dimensions of the building frontage and shall not extend beyond
the building edge.
      (3)   Open air display shall not be located so as to block pedestrian
walkways, doorways, parking stalls, drive aisles (including access for
emergency services). Four feet is the minimum width required to maintain
pedestrian access.
      (4)   Open air display areas shall not exceed a height of five feet,
except that vending machines or cabinets for items such as beverages, ice,
movies and propane may exceed the height as long as there are no more than
three machines per frontage.
      (5)   Open air display areas shall be maintained in an orderly and
attractive manner.
      (6)   Open air display areas shall be limited to products sold within the
principal structure and shall not serve as a storage area for inventory.
   (C)   Temporary stand for sale of agricultural products (tree lot, farm
stand, seasonal sales, etc.).
      (1)   Location of temporary outdoor sales shall be included on the site
plan.
      (2)   Individual displays shall be limited to 30 consecutive days;
temporary stand for sales may not occur more than 120 cumulative days within
the year.
      (3)   Hours of operation shall be limited to those of the primary use.
      (4)   Portable toilet facilities shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 154.270 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   No land or building in any district shall be used or occupied in any
manner so as to create any dangerous, injurious, noxious, or otherwise
objectionable fire, explosive or other hazard, noise or vibration, smoke, dust,
odor or other form of air pollution, heat, cold, dampness, electrical or other
substance, condition or element in such a manner or in such amount as to
adversely affect the surrounding area or adjoining premises (referred to herein
as "dangerous or objectionable elements").
   (B)   For proposed new uses where there is a question about whether there
will be compliance with the performance standards, the applicant shall submit a
plan of the proposed construction or development, including a description of
the proposed machinery, processes, products and specifications for the
mechanisms and techniques to be used in restricting the emission of dangerous
and objectionable elements.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.271 VISUAL OBSTRUCTIONS TO VEHICULAR TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Intersections with traffic controls. On any corner lot at a street
intersection which has some form of traffic control (stop or yield signs),
there shall be no obstruction to traffic visibility within the clear sight
triangle which is formed by the intersection of the centerline of two
intersecting streets and a straight line joining the two centerlines at points
80 feet distant from their point of intersection.
   (B)   Intersections without traffic controls. On any corner lot, in all
districts, at a street intersection which does not have any form of traffic
control, there shall be no obstruction to the traffic visibility within the
clear sight triangle which is formed by the intersection of the centerline of
two intersecting streets and a straight line joining the two centerlines at
points 88 feet distant from their point of intersection. All objects within
this area not exceeding 30 inches in height as measured from the centerline
elevation of the street shall not be considered as an obstruction to vision.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.272 NOISE.
   All operations and activities within the city must conform to the city’s
noise ordinance as set forth in Chapter 95 of the City Code.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.273 VIBRATION.
   (A)   No operation or activity shall transmit any physical vibration that is
above the vibration perception threshold of an individual at or beyond the
property line of the source. Vibration perception threshold means the minimum
ground or structure borne vibrational motion necessary to cause a normal person
to be aware of the vibration by such direct means as, but not limited to,
sensation by touch or visual observation of moving objects.
   (B)   Vibrations not directly under the control of the property user and
vibrations from temporary construction or maintenance activities shall be
exempt from the above standard.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.274 GLARE.
   (A)   In all districts, any lighting used to illuminate an off-street
parking area, sign or other structure shall be arranged so as to deflect light
away from any adjoining residential use and/or from the public streets.
   (B)   Direct or sky-reflected glare, whether from floodlights or from high
temperature processes such as combustion or welding, shall be hooded or
controlled in some manner so as not to light adjacent property.
   (C)   Bare incandescent light bulbs shall not be permitted in view of
adjacent property or public right-of-way. Any light or combination of lights
which cast light on a public street shall not exceed one foot candle (meter
reading) as measured from the centerline of the street.
   (D)   Any light or combination of lights which cast light on an adjacent
residential property shall not exceed 0.4 foot candles (meter reading) as
measured from the adjacent property.
   (E)   Where not specifically otherwise regulated, the light pole shall not
exceed 30 feet in height.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.275 ODOR.
   No operation or activity shall emit any substance or combination of
substances in such quantities that create an objectionable odor as defined by
state statute.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.276 EMISSIONS AND POLLUTANTS.
   (A)   Particulate emissions and visible emissions. No operation or activity
shall emit into the ambient air from any direct or portable source any matter
that will affect visibility in excess of the limitations established by state
statute.
   (B)   Hazardous pollutants. No operation or activity shall emit any
hazardous substances in such a quantity, concentration or duration as to be
injurious to human health or property and all emissions of hazardous substances
shall not exceed the limitations established by state statute.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.277 FIRE AND EXPLOSION HAZARD.
   (A)   All activities involving and all storage of flammable and explosive
materials shall be provided at any point with adequate safety devices against
the hazard of fire and explosion and adequate firefighting and fire suppression
equipment and devices standards in the industry.
   (B)   Burning of waste materials in open fire shall be prohibited.
   (C)   The relevant provisions of state and local laws and regulations shall
also apply.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.278 BULK STORAGE (LIQUID, GAS, GRAIN AND THE LIKE).
   (A)   Above and below ground storage tanks, bins, elevators and the like
shall be regulated in accordance with applicable city, state and federal
regulations, including the applicable building codes, State Fire Code and
regulations of the Pollution Control Agency.
   (B)   All necessary federal, state and local permits and approvals shall be
obtained.
   (C)   The Council may require that all existing aboveground liquid in free
state storage tanks having a capacity of 300 gallons or more be diked, and
suitably sealed, to hold a leakage capacity equal to 115% of tank capacity, and
also have State Fire Marshal approval.
   (D)   No storage tanks containing flammable or combustible materials shall
be located less than 200 feet from a residential district, except those used on
individual properties for heating individual homes.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.279 OUTSIDE STORAGE.
   In all residential districts, all materials and equipment shall be stored
within a building or fully screened so as not to be visible from adjoining
properties and public streets, except the following shall be permissible if
maintained in good order:
   (A)   Laundry drying and clothes lines.
   (B)   Recreational equipment.
   (C)   Construction and landscaping materials and equipment currently being
used on the premises.
   (D)   Off-street parking of licensed operating passenger vehicles.
   (E)   Fire wood kept neat and orderly for use in the principal residence for
heating.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.280 REFUSE.
   (A)   In all districts, all waste material, debris, refuse or garbage shall
be kept in an enclosed building or properly contained in a closed container
designed for such purposes, with the exception of crop residue.
   (B)   The owner of vacant land shall be responsible for keeping the land
free of refuse.
   (C)   Passenger vehicles and trucks in an inoperative state shall not be
parked in outdoor parking areas in residential districts for a period exceeding
14 days.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.281 LIQUID OR SOLID WASTES.
   No discharge at any point into any public sewer, private sewage disposal
system or stream or into the ground, except in accord with standards approved
by the Department of Health of the state or standards equivalent to those
approved by such Department for similar uses of any materials of such nature or
temperature as can contaminate any water supply or otherwise cause the emission
of dangerous or offensive elements.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.282 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any premises which has access to
the sanitary sewer system to permit the existence of outdoor toilets, or to
construct, improve or repair any individual on-site sewer treatment facility.
   (B)   All developed properties having access to the sanitary sewer system
shall be connected to the sanitary sewer system.
   (C)   This provision shall not apply to temporary construction sites or
portable units used in farming operations.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
PARKING, LOADING, ACCESS AND CIRCULATION
§ 154.295 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Generally. In all zoning districts, off-street parking facilities for
the temporary storage of motor vehicles for the use by occupants, employees and
patrons of the buildings or structures hereafter erected, altered or extended
after the effective date of this chapter, shall be provided and maintained as
herein prescribed.
   (B)   Area exempted. The following portion of the central business district
is exempt from parking requirements: the area bounded on the south by the
railroad right-of-way, on the east by the center of First Avenue East, on the
west by the center of Fifth Avenue West and on the north by the center of the
alley between Main Street and First Street North.
   (C)   All districts.
      (1)   Loading space shall not be construed as supplying off-street
parking space.
      (2)   When units or measurements used in determining the number of
required parking spaces result in requirement of a fractional space any
fraction up to and including one-half shall be disregarded and fractions over
one-half shall require one parking space.
      (3)   Whenever a use requiring off-street parking is increased in floor
area, and the use is located in a building existing on or before the effective
date of this chapter, additional parking space for the additional floor area
shall be provided and maintained in amounts hereafter specified for that use.
      (4)   Where a use is not specifically mentioned, off-street parking
requirements shall be the same as for a similar use.
      (5)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the extension of, or an
addition to, a building or structure into an existing parking area which is
required for the original building or structure when the same amount of space
taken by the extension or addition is provided by an enlargement of the
existing parking area.
   (D)   R-1 and R-1A, residential districts. Off-street parking facilities for
residential uses shall be provided and located on the same parcel of land as
the building they are intended to serve.
   (E)   R-2, R-3, R-C residential districts and all nonresidential districts.
      (1)   Off-street parking facilities for residential uses shall be
provided and located on the same parcel of land as the building they are
intended to serve.
      (2)   The location of required off-street parking facilities for
nonresidential uses shall be on the same lot or contiguous to the lot on which
the principle use is located. All off-site parking shall be within 300 feet of
the lot where the principle use is located, measured from the nearest part of
the off-site parking facility to the nearest point of the principle lot. All
off-site parking will require a conditional use permit.
      (3)   Parking of automobiles and other motor vehicles is permitted in the
front and side yards in the I-1 and I-2 manufacturing districts if separated by
a planting bufferyard not less than ten feet in width.
   (F)   Design standards. The following standards are for required parking
areas for five plus unit residential uses and all nonresidential uses:
      (1)   Minimum standards.
         (a)   The size of each parking space shall be not less than 180 square
feet exclusive of the space required for ingress and egress, each stall being a
minimum of nine feet wide and 18 feet in depth; however, handicap parking
stalls shall meet ADA requirements.
         (b)   Minimum width of aisles providing access to stalls for one way
traffic shall be as follows:
            1.   Eleven feet for 30 degree parking; and
            2.   Twenty feet for 90 degree parking.
         (c)   Minimum width of aisles providing access to stalls for two-way
traffic shall be 24 feet.
         (d)   No parking area of more than two spaces shall be designed as to
require any vehicle to back into a public street.
         (e)   Tandem parking (one vehicle behind another) layouts are not
permitted.
      (2)   Standards for all districts.
         (a)   Adequate ingress and egress shall be provided.
         (b)   Whenever the parking lot boundary adjoins property zoned for
residential use, a setback of eight feet from the lot line shall be required.
         (c)   A parking plan shall be submitted to the city.
            1.   Plans for the construction of any parking lot must be approved
by the city before construction is started.
            2.   No land shall be used for parking until final approval by the
city.
      (3)   Standards for all residential districts, commercial districts and
I-1 District.
         (a)   All driveways and all areas intended to be utilized for parking
spaces shall be constructed of bituminous asphalt, concrete or pavers. Such
surfacing shall be approved by the City Engineer and maintained in good repair.
         (b)   All parking or paved areas shall be adequately served by storm
sewer or other approved stormwater facilities. Such facilities shall be
approved by the City Engineer.
         (c)   A six-inch-high, poured-in-place concrete curb shall be provided
around the periphery of all parking lots and internal access roads, except
where the City Engineer determines that a curb would impede the drainage plan.
         (d)   Whenever the parking lot boundary adjoins property zoned for
residential use, a setback of eight feet from the lot line shall be required.
      (4)   Standards for all uses in I-2 District.
         (a)   The parking lots shall be maintained in a useable dust-proof
condition and shall be kept graded and drained to dispose of surface water in
accordance with existing state, federal and local regulations.
         (b)   Necessary curbs or other projections against damage to adjoining
properties, streets and sidewalks shall be provided and maintained.
   (G)   Uses and required parking spaces table. The amount of required off-
street parking space for new uses or buildings, additions thereto and additions
to existing buildings as specified in this chapter, shall be determined in
accordance with the following table and space so required and shall be
irrevocably reserved for the use.
Use Required Parking
Use                                     Required Parking
RESIDENTIAL
Household Living
Dwelling, single-family detached        2 spaces per dwelling unit
Manufactured home
Dwelling, single-family detached
conversion to two, three or four unit
Dwelling, two unit (duplex)
Dwelling, three to four unit (triplex,
quadraplex)                             1.5 spaces per dwelling unit
Dwelling, single-family attached (2-
4 units)
Dwelling, single-family attached (5+
units)
Dwelling, multi-family 5+ units         1.25 spaces per dwelling unit
Dwelling, 2nd floor+ apartments (above  1 space per dwelling unit plus required
nonresidential ground floor)            parking for ground floor use
Manufactured home park                  2 spaces per dwelling unit
Live/work unit                          1 space per dwelling unit
Group Living
Intermediate, extended and long-term
care facility (nursing home)
Residential care facility, licensed in- 1 space per every 5 beds plus 1 space
home (6 or fewer persons)               per every 3 employees
Residential care facility, licensed in-
home (7 to 16 persons)
Lodging
Bed and breakfast facilities            1 space for the dwelling unit, plus 1
                                        space per room offered for occupancy
Lodging services such as hotel and      1 space for each guest room, plus 1
motel                                   space per every 3 employees
Short-term vacation rental              Parking requirements as listed in §
                                        154.178(B)(4)
PUBLIC, SOCIAL OR HEALTHCARE
Healthcare and Interment Services
Cemeteries, mausoleums, columbarium,    None required
including animal cemeteries
Clinic, including medical, dental or    1 space per 250 square feet of gross
therapeutic (see Professional Services) floor area
Funeral home or mortuary                1 space per 50 square feet of floor
                                        area in parlors or assembly rooms
Hospital                                1 space per every 5 beds plus 1 space
                                        per every 3 employees
Institutions
Club, lodge or meeting place of a non-
commercial nature                       1 space per every 4 persons of the
Place of worship                        maximum building occupancy

Social assistance, welfare or           1 space per 250 square feet of gross
charitable services                     floor area
Education
Child care facilities serving up to 12
persons                                 1 space per employee on the maximum
Child care facilities serving 13+       work shift, plus 1 space per every 10
persons                                 children

School, college/university/trade/       1 space per employee, plus 5 spaces per
business                                classroom
                                        Elementary: 1 space per employee
School, elementary or secondary         Secondary: 1 space per employee, plus 5
                                        spaces per classroom
School, nursery or preschool            1 space per employee
Recreation and Open Space
                                        2 spaces per golf hole, plus 1 space
Golf courses/country club               per every 4 persons of the maximum
                                        building occupancy
Historic sites                          None required
Public recreational facilities
including parks and playgrounds, hiking None required
and/or biking trails
Temporary outdoor entertainment         Temporary parking areas to be approved
                                        by Zoning Administrator
Wildlife, forest and wetland preserves  None required
or management areas
Government Services
Essential services                      None required
Municipal, county, state or federal     1 space per 250 square feet of floor
administrative or services building     area of "active" spaces (not including
                                        utility or storage areas)
COMMERCIAL
Food or Beverage Services
Bar/tavern                              1 space per 4 seats provided for patron
Brewpub                                 use
Café, coffee shop
Off-sale liquor                         1 space per 250 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Restaurant                              1 space per 4 seats provided for patron
                                        use
Restaurant with drive-through or drive- 1 space per 4 seats provided for patron
in                                      use plus 3 stacking spaces per drive-
                                        through window
Other Services
                                        1 space per each examination and
Animal/pet services                     treatment room, plus 1 space per
                                        employee on the maximum work shift
Banks, finance, insurance and real
estate services
Building services                       1 space per 250 square feet of gross
Business services                       floor area
Equipment services
Personal services
Professional services
Services otherwise allowed with drive-  1 space per 250 square feet of gross
through or drive-in                     floor area, plus 3 stacking spaces per
                                        drive-through window
Retail
Convenience store
Food retail (grocery store)             1 space per 250 square feet of gross
General retail                          floor area
Shopping center
Wholesale retail
Arts and Entertainment
Art gallery/museum                      1 space per 500 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Indoor recreational facility,           1 space per 200 square feet of gross
commercial                              floor area
Outdoor recreational facility,          1 space per 5,000 square feet of
commercial                              outdoor activity area
Automobile Related
Automobile fuel station/service station 1 space per 2 gas pumps, plus 1 space
                                        per service bay
                                        1 space per 1,000 square feet of gross
Automobile sales                        floor area for indoor display area and
                                        1 space per 5,000 square feet for
                                        outdoor display area
INDUSTRY AND MANUFACTURING
Small Production/Commercial Production
Buildings used for research and testing 1 space per 500 square feet of gross
laboratories (interior only)            floor area
                                        1.5 spaces per every 2 employees on the
Brewery, winery or distillery           maximum work shift and 1 space per 250
                                        square feet of floor area of retail or
                                        taproom
Makerspace (studio)                     1 space per 1,000 square feet of gross
Printing                                floor area
Rental equipment (stored indoors)
Rental storage units (self-storage      1 space for every 10 storage units
facility)
Traditional Industrial, Indoors
Grain elevators; fertilizer
manufacturing, storage and sales        1.5 space per every 2 employees on the
Manufacturing, light                    maximum work shift
Manufacturing, heavy
Warehouse/distribution facility
Outdoor Industrial Activity
Automobile wrecking yard/scrap or       1 space per employee on the maximum
salvage storage yard                    work shift, plus 3 visitor spaces
                                        1 space per 500 square feet of gross
Contractor yard (landscaping,           floor area of office, sales, or display
construction, etc.)                     area, plus 1 space per 5,000 square
                                        feet of storage area
Outside storage, manufacturing and      1 space per 5,000 square feet of
sales area                              storage area
AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES
Community solar farm                    None required
                                        1 space per 250 square feet of retail
Nursery/greenhouse (with retail sales)  gross floor area, plus 1 space per
                                        5,000 square feet of outdoor display
                                        area
Short wave towers, radio and TV towers
and commercial radio and television
towers and transmitters                 None required
Wind energy conversion systems
Wireless communications facilities
ACCESSORY USES
Accessory dwelling unit                 1 space for ADU in addition to required
                                        spaces for primary residence
Day care facility, licensed (12 or
fewer persons)                          1 space per every 10 children
Day care facility, licensed (13 to 16
persons)
                                        Depending on type of home business,
Home business                           parking in addition to required spaces
                                        for primary residence may be required
                                        by the CUP
Home occupation                         None required
Short-term vacation rental              Parking requirements as listed in §
                                        154.178(B)(4)
 
   (H)   Uses not listed. In the case of uses not mentioned, the provision for
a use which is similar, as determined by city staff, shall apply. Floor space
or area shall mean the gross floor area inside the exterior walls, where floor
space is indicated above as a basis for determining the amount of off-street
parking spaces required.
   (I)   Required parking spaces and the driveways providing access to them
shall not be utilized for the following:
      (1)   Storage of unlicensed or inoperable motor vehicles, other goods or
snow.
      (2)   Display, sales, rental or repair of motor vehicles or other goods.
      (3)   Loading and unloading of vehicles.
   (J)   Combined uses. Combinations of any of the above uses shall provide the
total of the number of spaces required for each individual use.
   (K)   Shared parking. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent
collective provisions of off-street parking facilities for two or more
buildings or uses; provided, collectively, the facilities shall not be less
than the sum of the requirements for the various individual uses computed
separately in accordance with the table, except as provided below:
      (1)   Two or more uses may provide required off-street parking spaces in
a common parking facility less than the sum of the spaces required for each use
individually, provided such uses are not operated during the same hours. The
following conditions must be met for any joint use:
         (a)   The proposed joint parking space is within 500 feet of the use
it will serve.
         (b)   The applicant shall show that there is no substantial conflict
in the principal operating hours of the two buildings or uses for which joint
use of off-street parking facilities is proposed.
         (c)   A properly drawn legal instrument approved by the City Council,
executed by the parties concerned, for joint use of off-street parking
facilities shall be filed with the City Clerk. Said instrument may be a three
party agreement, including the city and all private parties involved. Such
instrument shall first be approved by the City Attorney.
   (L)   Handicapped parking requirements. In addition to any other
requirements relating to parking spaces contained in this chapter, handicapped
parking must conform to ADA and state statute and administrative rules
requirements.
   (M)   Changes in buildings or use.
      (1)   Whenever a building or use is changed, structurally altered or
enlarged to create a need for an increase of 25% or more in the number of
existing parking spaces, such spaces shall be provided on the basis of the
enlargement or change.
      (2)   Whenever a building or use is enlarged to the extent of 50% or more
in the floor area, said building or use shall then comply with the parking
requirements set forth in the district in which it is located.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.296 LOADING SPACES.
   (A)   On the premises with every building, structure or part thereof,
erected and occupied for manufacturing, storage, commercial, retail and related
uses involving receipt or distribution of vehicles or materials or merchandise,
there shall be provided and maintained on the lot adequate space for standing,
loading and unloading services in order to avoid undue interference with public
use of the streets or alleys.
   (B)   The space, unless otherwise adequately provided for, shall be at
minimum one ten-foot by 25-foot loading space, with 14-foot height clearance
for every 20,000 square feet or fraction thereof in excess of 3,000 square feet
of building floor use or land use for the above mentioned purposes.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.297 ACCESS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The number and types of access drives onto arterial, collector and
parkway roads may be controlled
and limited by the City Council in the interests of public safety and efficient
traffic flow.
   (B)   Access drives onto county roads shall require a review by the County
Engineer. The County Engineer shall determine the appropriate location, size
and design of the access drives and may limit the number of access drives in
the interest of public safety and efficient traffic flow.
   (C)   Access drives to principal structures which traverse wooded, steep or
open field areas shall be constructed and maintained to a width and base
material depth sufficient to support access by emergency vehicles.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall review all access drives (driveways)
for compliance with accepted community access drive standards.
      (2)   All driveways shall have a minimum width of ten feet with a road
strength capable of supporting emergency and fire vehicles.
   (D)   All lots or parcels shall have direct adequate physical access for
emergency vehicles along the frontage of the lot or parcel from either an
existing dedicated public roadway or an existing private roadway approved by
the City Council.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.298 CIRCULATION.
   (A)   Pedestrian access and circulation.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the following pedestrian access and
circulation requirements is to ensure effective pedestrian connections and
other means of non-motorized transportation through proper site design and land
development improvements including walkways, trails and other improvements that
link residential and commercial neighborhoods to each other and at the same
time link one method of transportation to other methods of transportation
throughout the city.
      (2)   Internal sidewalks and pedestrian access site design requirements.
         (a)   A pedestrian connection shall be constructed from all principal
buildings on a lot to the public right-of-way. This requirement is not
applicable to single-family and two-family structures.
         (b)   The pedestrian connection shall have a minimum width of five
feet.
         (c)   At each point that an on-site pedestrian walkway system crosses
a parking lot or internal street or driveway, the walkway or crosswalk shall be
clearly marked through the use of a change in paving materials, distinguished
by their color, texture or height.
         (d)   Sidewalks shall be provided along any facade featuring a
customer entrance and along any facade abutting public parking areas.
            1.   At all times, such sidewalks shall maintain a clear pedestrian
passage equal to the width of the sidewalk.
            2.   Additionally, such sidewalks shall connect all customer
entrances to other internal sidewalks.
   (B)   Vehicle circulation.
      (1)   All parking, loading, and drive areas shall be designed to provide
adequate space for the circulation of vehicles, including emergency and fire
services.
      (2)   Plans for parking, loading, and access may be sent by the Zoning
Administrator to the Fire Marshal and other applicable officials for review of
circulation design prior to approval.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
LANDSCAPING, SCREENING, WALLS AND FENCES
§ 154.310 GENERAL LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   All open areas of a lot not used for buildings, parking, circulations,
patios or storage must be landscaped with a combination of canopy trees,
ornamental trees, evergreen trees, shrubs, flowers, sod, ground cover and other
site design features to ensure soil stabilization. This requirement shall not
apply to undisturbed areas retained in a natural state or areas within the D-
H Development Holding District.
   (B)   Fences, hedges, walls and other landscaping shall be located entirely
upon the property which they serve. Fences, hedges, walls and other landscaping
obstructing a utility or drainage easement or extending beyond the legal
property boundary may be removed at the owner’s expense.
   (C)   Landscape plans shall be submitted for all site and subdivision
related applications where exterior construction and development activity will
occur, except for the construction of an individual single-family or two-family
dwelling.
   (D)   Landscape plans shall be prepared by a registered landscape architect
or other qualified individual for planned unit developments or development
where there is greater than one acre of site disturbance.
   (E)   The following minimum number of plant materials shall be provided:
      (1)   All residential uses with three or more units and nonresidential
uses shall provide:
         (a)   All structures must have foundation plantings consisting of
shrubs, perennials and native grasses.
         (b)   All structures shall require an additional two shrubs per 1,000
square feet of new construction.
      (2)   Alternative compliance. The Zoning Administrator may approve the
substitution or reduction of landscaped plant materials, landscaped area, or
other landscaping standards upon finding any of the following:
         (a)   The alternative meets the intent of this chapter and the site
plan is similar in form, scale, and materials to existing features of the site
and to surrounding development, and it includes amenities or improvements that
address any adverse effects of the alternative. Site amenities may include but
are not limited to additional open space, additional landscaping and screening,
green roof, decorative or pervious pavers, state-of-the-art stormwater
management, ornamental metal fencing, architectural enhancements, transit
facilities, bicycle facilities, preservation of natural features, restoration
of previously damaged environment, and rehabilitation of existing structures
and places that have been locally designated or have been determined to be
eligible for local designation as having historic significance.
         (b)   Strict adherence to the requirements is impractical because of
site location or conditions and the proposed alternative meets the intent of
the chapter.
         (c)   Existing plant materials, walls, fences or topography of the
site and its surroundings make the required landscaping less necessary.
         (d)   The required landscaping will hinder truck access and service
necessary to the operation of the use.
         (e)   The required landscaping may obstruct views of traffic or reduce
natural surveillance of the site.
      (3)   Compliance. If the applicant and Zoning Administrator cannot agree
on the proposed landscaping design, the applicant shall be required to make an
application for a conditional use permit to prove compatibility.
   (F)   Off-street parking area landscaping.
      (1)   All open, off-street parking areas shall have a minimum of one
square foot of landscaping per ten square feet of parking using trees, shrubs
or ground cover plants.
      (2)   The preservation of existing trees, shrubs and other natural
vegetation in the parking area may be included in the calculation of the
required minimum landscape area.
      (3)   Turf grass is permitted within landscaped areas located around the
periphery of a parking lot.
   (G)   All plant materials must:
      (1)   Meet the minimum standards set by the American National Standards
Institute in ANSI Z60.1 American Standard for Nursery Stock.
      (2)   Landscape species shall be indigenous or proven adaptable to the
climate, but shall not be invasive species.
      (3)   Landscape materials shall be tolerant of specific site conditions,
including but not limited to heat, drought and salt.
      (4)   Existing healthy plant material may be utilized to satisfy
landscaping requirements, provided it meets the minimum plant size specified in
this division.
   (H)   Not more than 50% of the required number of trees shall be of the same
species.
   (I)   Trees and shrubs may be clustered and do not need to be evenly spaced.
      (1)   It is preferable that trees be located between the sidewalk and the
curb, within the landscaped area of a boulevard or in tree wells installed in
pavement or concrete.
      (2)   If placement of street trees within the right-of-way will interfere
with utility lines, trees may be planted within the front yard setback adjacent
to the sidewalk.
   (J)   The following guidelines are recommended for the minimum sizes of
plantings:
      (1)   Canopy trees – 2.5-inch caliper.
      (2)   Ornamental trees – 1.5-inch caliper.
      (3)   Evergreen tree – six-foot height.
      (4)   Deciduous or evergreen shrub – five-gallon pot.
   (K)   Mulch shall consist of shredded bark, chipped wood, or stone installed
at a minimum depth of two inches. If stone is used it shall be spread over a
permeable weed barrier fabric.
   (L)   All required plant materials shall be planted prior to issuing a
certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   In the event that the project is completed during a time of year
when planting is impractical, a performance guarantee meeting the requirements
of and in the amount of the remaining improvements may be required.
      (2)   In such case that a performance guarantee is required, all
landscaping shall be completed within one year after the certificate of
occupancy has been issued.
   (M)   The continued maintenance of all required landscaping materials in a
live and healthy state is a requirement of this code and is the responsibility
of the owner and tenant of the property on which the materials are required.
      (1)   Plantings which have died shall be promptly replaced by the
property owner in accordance with the landscape plan approved for the site.
      (2)   This requirement shall run with the land and be binding upon all
future property owners.
      (3)   Failure to comply with this maintenance requirement shall be a
violation of this section.
   (N)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit for all projects requiring
approval of a landscape plan, the developers, contractor, or property owners
shall deposit a security with the city to guarantee compliance with and to
indemnify the city for any expenses incurred in enforcing the requirements of
this section.
      (1)   Landscape security for all uses except one or two unit dwellings
shall be in a form approved by the Departments and shall be equal to 125% of
the estimated cost necessary to furnish and plant the required landscaping and
any ancillary screening improvements such as fencing.
      (2)   The estimated cost shall be subject to approval by the city.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020; Ord. 3.1-24, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 154.311 BUFFERYARDS AND SCREENING.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Screening and buffering shall be used to provide visual and noise
separation of more intensive uses from less intensive uses.
      (2)   Fences, hedges, walls and other landscaping shall be located
entirely upon the property which they serve. Fences, hedges, walls and other
landscaping obstructing a utility or drainage easement or extending beyond the
legal property boundary may be removed at the owner’s expense.
      (3)   Screening shall be provided alongside side and rear property
boundaries between nonresidential uses and residential uses. Screening for new
construction shall consist of the following:
         (a)   The buffer area abutting the residential use must meet the width
shown in the table below:
 
BUFFER REQUIREMENTS TABLE
Uses                            Zoning District of Subject Minimum Buffer Width
                                Property
5+ unit Residential,
Institutional, Business, Mixed- R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3, R-C   10 feet
Use
Institutional, Business, Mixed- C-1, C-2, C-3              15 feet
Use
Institutional, Business,        I-1, I-2                   20 feet
Industrial
 
         (b)   The buffer area must contain a solid wall, opaque, commercial-
grade fence, or hedge with year-round foliage, between six and eight feet in
height. Screening within the front yard or corner side yard is limited to four
feet in height. Height of screening shall be measured from the natural or
approved grade.
         (c)   If the buffer area contains a hedge, the hedge shall be
landscaped as a linear planting of closely spaced evergreen trees or shrubs
maintained to form a dense, continuous barrier or boundary measuring at least
six feet in height at maturity.
         (d)   The buffer area may be interrupted for necessary pedestrian or
vehicular access.
         (e)   Screen plantings shall be permanently maintained by the owner of
the property and any plant materials which do not live shall be replaced within
six months.
   (B)   Site elements to be screened. The following site elements shall be
screened in compatibility with the design elements, materials and colors used
elsewhere on the site as follows:
      (1)   Refuse disposal areas.
         (a)   All refuse and recycling containers in all commercial,
industrial, multi-family, or mixed-use zoning areas shall be screened on four
sides (including a gate for access) by a solid, commercial-grade wood fence,
wall or equivalent material that is architecturally compatible with the
principal structure and has a height of between six feet and eight feet.
         (b)   Refuse enclosures shall be subject to the following:
            1.   A three foot setback is required to any lot line;
            2.   Shall include a durable gate system that remains closed when
not in use; and
            3.   Shall allow for easy access by refuse and recycling
contractors.
      (2)   Loading areas. Loading areas shall be screened from abutting
residential uses and from street view to the extent feasible. Screening along
district boundaries, where present, may provide all or part of the required
screening.
      (3)   Mechanical equipment. All rooftop and ground level mechanical
equipment and utilities shall be fully screened from view from any street or
residential district, as viewed from six feet above ground level. Screening may
consist of a building wall or fence and/or landscaping as approved by the
Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   Off-street parking areas. Those parking areas for five or more
vehicles if adjoining a residential use shall be screened from such use by a
solid wall, fence, evergreen planting of equivalent visual density or other
effective means, built and maintained at a minimum height of five feet. Where a
solidly constructed decorative fence is provided along the interior lot line,
the minimum setback for the parking area shall be five feet from said lot line.
Said fence shall be located a minimum of one foot from the said lot line.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020; Ord. 3.2-24, passed 3-13-2024)
§ 154.312 FENCES AND WALLS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply.
      FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier made of wood, vinyl, metal, or
other manufactured material, or a combination of materials, designed to
enclose, screen, or separate areas.
      FENCE, INTERIOR. A fence constructed at least two feet from a property
line, with the exception of connections made at or near a perpendicular angle
to existing fences.
      FENCE, PERIMETER. A fence constructed on or within two feet of a property
line, typically running at or near a parallel angle to the boundary and serving
to demarcate the limits of a property.
      HEDGE. A linear planting of closely spaced evergreen trees or shrubs
maintained to form a dense, continuous barrier.
      WALL. A solid, artificially constructed barrier made of non-living
material, typically brick, concrete, or stone, which may be used for screening
in addition to grading retention (RETAINING WALL). For the purposes of this
subchapter, a wall shall be considered a type of fence.
   (B)   General standards.
      (1)   Fences and hedges shall be located entirely on or within the
boundaries of the property which they serve. Any fence or hedge obstructing a
utility or drainage easement or extending beyond the property line may be
removed at the owner’s expense.
      (2)   Barbed wire or above ground electric fences shall not be permitted,
used, or constructed, except in industrial districts or where livestock are
permitted.
      (3)   Fences and hedges shall be well-maintained and kept in a safe
condition.
      (4)   The yard area between a fence and a property line shall be
maintained in an attractive condition at all times.
      (5)   The finished or decorative side of a fence shall face adjoining
property.
      (6)   Fences and hedges shall comply with the clear sight triangle
regulations provided in §
154.271.
      (7)   In rear yards and side yards, fences shall not exceed six feet in
height as measured from the finished grade, unless required by the city for
screening, buffering, or safety.
      (8)   In front yards, fences shall not exceed 36 inches in height, except
as provided in division (C) below.
   (C)   Front yard fence standards. Fences located within front yards may
exceed 36 inches in height if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The height is required by the city for screening, buffering, or
safety.
      (2)   The transparency of the fence is 50% or more.
      (3)   The transparency of the fence is less than 50%, provided that the
property is a corner lot, and the fence is located within the front yard area.
As defined in § 150.02, corner lots have more than one front yard area. At
least one front yard area shall remain open and free of fences.
   (D)   Approval required.
      (1)   Interior fences shall require a fence permit as described in
division (E)(1) below if any of the following apply:
         (a)   Some portion of the fence will be located within a utility or
drainage easement.
         (b)   Some portion of the fence will be located within a front yard
area.
      (2)   Perimeter fences shall require a fence permit as described in
division (E) below.
      (3)   Retaining walls measuring four feet in height or more from the
bottom of the footing shall require a building permit.
   (E)   Fence permits.
      (1)   For all perimeter fences and interior fences requiring a fence
permit, the applicant shall file the completed application form together with
the applicable fees and any required exhibits with the Zoning Administrator
prior to construction. Failure to obtain a permit prior to construction may
result in administrative penalties in accordance with §
10.99.
      (2)   Before a fence permit may be issued, perimeter fences shall require
neighbor agreements to be executed with the owners of the adjoining property as
described in division (F) below, except where the adjoining property is a
public right-of-way.
   (F)   Neighbor agreements.
      (1)   All neighbor agreements shall be in a written format and signed by
the owners of the adjoining properties before a notary public. Fully executed
neighbor agreements shall be recorded at the Dodge County Recorder’s Office.
      (2)   All neighbor agreements shall include a clear assignment of
responsibilities regarding construction and maintenance of the fence.
      (3)   If some portion of yard area exists between the fence and the
property line, then the neighbor agreement shall include a clear assignment of
responsibilities regarding maintenance of this yard area.
      (4)   If the responsibilities stated in divisions (F)(2) and (F)(3) are
not shared between the adjoining property owners, then the neighbor agreement
shall include a provision allowing for encroachment by the party responsible.
      (5)   If the responsibilities stated in divisions (F)(2) and (F)(3) are
shared between the adjoining property owners, then the neighbor agreement shall
optionally include a provision allowing for encroachment by either party.
   (G)   Temporary fences.
      (1)   Fences erected for the protection of planting or to warn of
construction hazard, or for similar purposes, shall be clearly visible or
marked with colored streamers or other such warning devices at four- foot
intervals. Such fences shall comply with all requirements set forth in this
subchapter but shall not require a fence permit unless erected for more than 45
days in a calendar year.
      (2)   Fences erected to manage snow drift shall comply with all
requirements set forth in this subchapter. Snow fences shall not require a
fence permit and may be erected for more than 45 days in a calendar year but
must be removed when snow accumulation is no longer expected.
   (H)   Nonconforming fences. Any fence existing on the effective date of this
Code of Ordinances and not in conformance with this section may be continued,
including through repair, replacement, restoration, maintenance, or
improvement, but shall not be expanded, unless installed in conformance with
this section.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020; Ord. 8.1-2021, passed 8-11-2021; Ord. 8.3-23,
passed 8-23-2023; Ord. 10.1-24, passed 10-23-2024)
NATURAL RESOURCE PROTECTION
§ 154.325 GRADING, FILLING AND EROSION CONTROL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to require preparation and
implementation of grading and erosion control plans for land-disturbing
activity to:
      (1)   Prevent sediment deposits on roadways;
      (2)   Retain sediment on site;
      (3)   Prevent disruption or damage to water resources and public
stormwater systems;
      (4)   Prevent adverse impacts to neighboring property;
      (5)   Reduce soil compaction and enhance infiltration and the
establishment of vegetation;
      (6)   Prevent damage to natural resources, such as trees, that are
intended to be preserved; and
      (7)   Maintain stable slopes.
   (B)   Where the provisions of state law or other city regulation or
ordinance set higher standards than those of this chapter, the provisions of
the laws, regulations or ordinances shall apply.
   (C)   General standards. The following management practices shall be applied
to all development and earth moving activities:
      (1)   All development shall conform to the natural limitations presented
by the topography and soil in order to create the best potential for preventing
soil erosion.
      (2)   Best management practices for erosion control and sediment control
shall be applied to each development/construction site.
      (3)   Slopes over 18% in grade shall not be developed.
      (4)   Development on slopes with a grade between 12% and 18% shall be
carefully reviewed to ensure that adequate measures have been taken to prevent
erosion, sedimentation and structural damage.
      (5)   Erosion and siltation control measures shall be coordinated with
the different stages of development. Appropriate control measures shall be
installed prior to development when necessary to control erosion.
      (6)   Land shall be developed in increments of workable size such that
adequate erosion and siltation controls can be provided as construction
progresses. The smallest practical area of lands shall be exposed at any one
period of time and no exposure shall exceed 60 days unless extended by the
Council.
      (7)   Where the topsoil is removed, sufficient arable soil shall be set
aside for respreading over the developed area. The topsoil shall be restored to
a depth of four inches and shall be of a quality at least equal to the soil
quality prior to development.
      (8)   The natural drainage system shall be used, as far as feasible for
storage and flow of runoff except that no stormwater drainage shall be
discharged to marshlands, swamps or wetlands. Stormwater drainage shall be
discharged to retention basins or other treatment facilities.
      (9)   Public and private properties adjacent to the development site
shall be protected from the effects of sedimentation. Any violations of this
provision must be corrected by the owner to the satisfaction of the city within
five days of receiving notification of such. If the violation is not remedied
within the time period specified, the city may correct the problem and assess
the costs incurred to the property owner.
   (D)   Exposed slopes. The following control measures shall be taken to
control erosion during construction.
      (1)   No exposed slopes should be steeper in grade than four feet
horizontal to one foot vertical.
      (2)   At the foot of each exposed slope, a channel and berm should be
constructed to control runoff. The channelized water should be diverted to a
sedimentation basin (debris basin, silt basin or silt trap) before being
allowed to enter the natural drainage system.
      (3)   Along the top of each exposed slope, a berm should be constructed
to prevent runoff from flowing over the edge of the slope. Where runoff
collecting behind the berm cannot be diverted elsewhere and must be directed
down the slope, appropriate measures shall be taken to prevent erosion. The
measures should consist of either an asphalt paved flow apron and drop chute
laid down the slope or a flexible slope drain. At the base of the slope drain
or flow apron a gravel energy dissipater should be installed to prevent erosion
at the discharge end.
      (4)   Exposed slopes shall be protected by means which will effectively
prevent erosion considering the degree of the slope, soils material and
expected length of exposure.
         (a)   Slope protection shall consist of mulch, sheets of plastic,
burlap or jute netting, sod blankets, fast growing grasses or temporary
seedlings of annual grasses.
         (b)   Mulch consists of hay, straw, wood chips, corn stalks, bark or
other protective material.
         (c)   Mulch should be anchored to slopes with liquid asphalt or stakes
and netting or should be worked into soil to achieve additional slope
stability.
      (5)   Control measures, other than those specifically stated above, may
be used in place of the above measures if it can be demonstrated that they will
as effectively protect exposed slopes.
   (E)   Grading permit:
      (1)   Except as provided below, a grading permit is required for the
following activities:
         (a)   Excavating, grading, filling or other land-disturbing activity
on a per project basis that exposes soil in an area or areas encompassing at
least 5,000 square feet or results in the movement of at least 50 cubic yards
of material;
         (b)   Excavating, grading, filling or any other land-disturbing
activity that exposes soil in or on any steep slope, wetland or floodplain; or
         (c)   Excavating, grading, filling or any other land-disturbing
activity that destabilizes the soil, involves the movement of contaminated
soils, involves work in the right-of-way that is approved by the City Engineer,
or creates the potential of erosion onto property not in common ownership with
the location of the activity or creates the potential of erosion into a water
resource.
      (2)   A separate grading permit is not required for land disturbing
activity that is undertaken in compliance with a grading and erosion control
plan approved in conjunction with a building permit if in conformance with this
section.
   (F)   Grading and erosion control plan. A grading and erosion control plan
is required to be submitted for city approval as part of an application for any
grading permit, site plan review, and wetland/floodplain alteration permit and
as part of an application for a building permit that involves any amount of
land-disturbing activity.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.326 STORMWATER DESIGN.
   (A)   Runoff water from parking lots, roofs and driveways shall not be
allowed to cross sidewalks or to directly run onto private property that is not
a part of the site unless easements have been obtained.
   (B)   Surface runoff waters shall be directed into municipal facilities;
where municipal facilities are not available, a drywell or drainage area owned
or controlled by the owner or developer shall be provided.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.327 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL DRAINAGEWAYS.
   (A)   Waterways.
      (1)   Every effort shall be made to retain the natural drainage systems
in the city including existing wetlands and ponds. The natural drainage system
shall be maintained by the city. Aboveground runoff disposal waterways may be
constructed to augment the natural drainage system.
      (2)   The widths of a constructed waterway shall be sufficiently large to
adequately channel runoff from a ten-year storm. Adequacy shall be determined
by the expected runoff when full development of the drainage area is reached.
      (3)   No fences or structures shall be constructed across the waterway
that will reduce or restrict the flow of water.
      (4)   The banks of the waterway shall be protected with permanent
vegetation.
      (5)   The banks of the waterway should not exceed four feet horizontal to
one foot vertical in gradient.
      (6)   The gradient of the waterway bed should not exceed a grade that
will result in a velocity that will cause erosion of the banks of the waterway.
      (7)   The bend of the waterway should be protected with turf, sod or
concrete.
         (a)   If turf or sod will not function properly, riprap may be used.
            1.   Riprap shall consist of quarried limestone, fieldstone (if
random riprap is used) or construction materials of concrete.
            2.   The riprap shall be no smaller than two inches square nor no
larger than two feet square.
         (b)   Construction materials shall be used only in those areas where
the waterway is not used as part of a recreation trail system.
      (8)   If the flow velocity in the waterway is such that erosion of the
turf side wall will occur and the velocity cannot be decreased via velocity
control structures, then other materials may replace turf on the side walls.
Either gravel or riprap would be allowed to prevent erosion at these points.
   (B)   Sediment control of waterways.
      (1)   To prevent sedimentation of waterways, pervious and impervious
sediment traps and other sediment control structures shall be incorporated
throughout the contributing watershed.
      (2)   Temporary pervious sediment traps could consist of a construction
of bales of hay with a low spillway embankment section of sand and gravel that
permits a slow movement of water while filtering sediment. The structures would
serve as temporary sediment control features during the construction state of
development. Development of housing and other structures shall be restricted
from the area on either side of the waterway required to channel a 25-year
storm.
      (3)   Permanent impervious sediment control structures consist of
sediment basins (debris basins, de-silting basins or silt traps) and shall be
utilized to remove sediment from runoff prior to its disposal in any permanent
body of water.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 154.340 PURPOSE.
   The purpose for regulating signs is to minimize aesthetic distractions,
avoid placement of signs representing traffic-control signs, ensure maintenance
of signs and protect the health, safety and welfare of the people of the city.
To balance the need for signage with the impact of the signage by establishing
minimum standards related to the use, location and intensity of particular land
uses.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.341 CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   No permanent or non-temporary sign shall hereafter be located, erected,
moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, converted or structurally altered
without a building permit and without being in conformance with the provisions
of this chapter, excepting those official signs such as parking, traffic,
street and highway signs and those identified in §
154.344.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.342 SIGN APPEARANCE.
   The owner, lessee or manager of the property on which a sign is located is
responsible for the appearance of the sign, including the reasonable area
around the base of the sign. Upon notification by the city that a sign is
rotted, unsafe or unsightly, the owner of the sign or owner of property
thereunder shall remove or repair the sign.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.343 CONSTRUCTION.
   All permanent signs shall be constructed to meet Building Code standards for
wind resistance and wind loads. Signs shall be secured so as not to be free
swinging. Signs with any electrical devices shall conform to the Electrical
Code. In addition, adequate measures shall be taken to ground metallic parts of
roof signs which may be exposed to lightning.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.344 PERMITTED SIGNS, ALL DISTRICTS.
   The following shall be allowed without a permit in all zoning districts:
   (A)   Temporary political signs, not exceeding 32 aggregate square feet in
area, meaning any sign the display surface of which is primarily constructed of
cloth, canvas, fabric, paper board or other light material intended or suitable
for only a temporary period of display and advertising a candidacy for
political office or a proposition to be voted upon;
   (B)   Finder signs and real estate signs, not exceeding eight square feet in
area;
   (C)   Official signs, such as traffic-control, parking restrictions,
information and notices;
   (D)   Bulletin boards for public, charitable or places of worship not
exceeding eight square feet in area;
   (E)   Historic markers, memorial signs, names of buildings and date of
erection when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of metal and
affixed flat against a structure; and
   (F)   Warning and name signs not exceeding two square feet located on the
premises.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020; Ord. 6.3-2021, passed 6-23-2021)
§ 154.345 PROHIBITED SIGNS, ALL DISTRICTS.
   The following shall be prohibited in all zoning districts:
   (A)   Any sign located in the public right-of-way or easements, except those
listed in divisions §
154.344(B) and §
154.347(H);
   (B)   Any sign which resembles the size, shape, form and color of official
traffic-control signs, emergency vehicle lights or official markers;
   (C)   Any sign which obstructs any window, door, fire escape, stairway or
opening intended to provide light, air or access to any building or structure;
   (D)   Any sign which casts a distracting or confusing ray of light onto a
public roadway; and
   (E)   Any sign which causes a safety hazard by interfering with sight lines
and traffic visibility.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.346 SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   No flashing, moving or intermittently lighted sign shall be permitted
in any residential district, except on school district property;
   (B)   There shall be no more than one unilluminated name plate measuring not
more than one and one-half feet in area attached near the building entrance;
   (C)   Construction/project signs are permitted for the duration of the
project; and
   (D)   Area identification signs shall be allowed with a building permit.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.347 SIGNS IN NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Signs shall be permitted in nonresidential districts subject to the
following:
   (A)   Wall signs placed against the exterior wall of a building shall not
extend more than six inches outside of a building's wall surface, shall not
exceed 500 square feet in area for any one premises and shall not exceed 20
feet in height above the mean centerline street grade;
   (B)   Projecting signs fastened to, suspended from or supported by
structures shall not exceed 100 square feet in area for any one premises, shall
not extend more than six feet into any required yard, shall not project into
the public right-of-way, shall not exceed a height of 20 feet above the mean
centerline street grade and shall not be less than ten feet above the sidewalk
nor 15 feet above a driveway or an alley.
      (1)   Projecting signs in the C-1 central business district may be
allowed to extend over the public right-of-way; provided that, no sign shall
project into the right-of-way more than five feet as measured from the point of
the sign, or its supports, at the distance farthest from the property line.
      (2)   No projecting sign shall be permitted to use the public right-of-
way for support apparatuses. Supports shall be located entirely on private
property;
   (C)   (1)   Freestanding ground type signs shall not exceed 20 feet in
height above the mean centerline street grade, shall not encroach on any public
right-of-way and shall not exceed 100 square feet on all sides for any one
premises;
      (2)   Lots within 1,000 feet of the centerline of Highway 14 in C-2, and
C-3 Districts may, as a conditional use, be permitted an additional 300 square
feet of area and a maximum elevation above sea level of 1,350 feet to increase
visibility to highway traffic.
   (D)   Roof signs shall not exceed ten feet in height above the roof, shall
meet all the setback and height requirements for the district in which they are
located, sum of all sides shall not exceed 300 total square feet on any one
premises;
   (E)   No flashing, moving or intermittently lighted sign shall be permitted
on any nonresidential lot abutting directly or across any street to a
residential district;
   (F)   Freestanding, billboard type of signs shall only be allowed if they
meet the following:
      (1)   Spacing. Billboard type advertising signs on the same side of the
street, facing the same traffic flow, shall not be placed closer than 500 feet
apart and 250 feet from zoning districts other than C-3 and I-2.
      (2)   Double face sign structures. Billboard type advertising signs can
be double faced (back to back) or V-type. Each side shall be considered as
facing traffic flowing in the opposite direction.
      (3)   Size, height and length of billboard type advertising signs. All
billboard type signs shall not exceed 750 square feet per side and shall not
exceed 35 feet in height. No billboard type signs shall exceed 55 feet in
length.
      (4)   Zoning districts. Billboard type advertising sign installation
shall be limited to zoning districts C-3 and I-2.
   (G)   Portable signs. Each lot or parcel in commercial/industrial districts
(C-1, C-2, C-3, I-1, I-2) shall be permitted one portable sign no larger than
32 square feet, for a cumulative period of 90 days in any one year. No permits
are required for portable signs;
   (H)   Sandwich board/A-frame signs. Those businesses located in commercial/
industrial districts (C-1, C-2, C-3, I-1, I-2) shall be permitted one sandwich
board/A-frame sign, no larger than ten square feet in area. The sign shall only
be displayed during business hours, in front of the business, and, if on the
sidewalk, shall not interfere with pedestrian traffic. The signs are subject to
M.S. § 609.74, as may be amended from time to time, regarding the preservation
and maintenance of right-of-way; and
   (I)   Electronic message signs and/or animated/flashing signs shall be
allowed as a conditional use in all commercial/industrial districts and on
school property.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.348 MEASURING AREA.
   The following shall determine the sign area:
   (A)   Support structures or bracing shall not be considered part of the sign
area unless used as a part of the sign message.
   (B)   In the case of two identical message faces back to back, and sandwich
board signs, the area of only one face shall be considered the sign area. If a
sign has more than one display face, and is not identical and back-to-back,
each face shall be considered a separate sign.
   (C)   The entire surface area of freestanding, projecting, roof and marquee
signs shall be considered the sign area.
   (D)   When a message is applied to a background that provides no boarder or
frame, the sign area shall be the smallest rectangle which can encompass all
words, letters, figures, emblems and other elements of the sign message.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.349 MEASURING HEIGHT.
   No sign shall exceed the permitted maximum height allowed in the underlying
district. The height of a sign shall be determined as follows:
   (A)   A freestanding sign shall be measured from the finished elevation at
the base of the sign to the top of the sign face.
   (B)   Projecting signs and wall signs shall be measured from the finished
elevation below the sign to the top of the sign face.
   (C)   Roof signs shall be measured from the top of the outside building wall
to the top of the sign area.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.350 CONSENT.
   No sign, whether permanent or temporary, shall be placed on private property
without the consent of the property owner.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 154.351 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The city is specifically exempt from the maximum signage area
restrictions in parks and other similar public areas. All signs are subject to
regulation under M.R. Ch. 8810 and M.S. Ch. 173, as may be amended from time to
time, regarding advertising devices on property adjacent to highways; and M.S.
§ 211B.045, as may be amended from time to time, regarding noncommercial signs
exemption.
   (B)   M.S. Ch. 21, as may be amended from time to time, states "In any
municipality with an ordinance that regulates the size of noncommercial signs,
notwithstanding the provisions of that ordinance, all noncommercial signs of
any size may be posted from August 1 in a state general election year until ten
days following the state general election."
(Ord. 879, passed 10-28-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cites Code Section
M.S. Cites           Code Section
6.51                 Ch. 31
Ch. 13               33.01;
                     33.02
                     96.28;
14.57–14.70        96.32;
                     110.36;
                     110.99
15.99                154.065
Ch. 21            154.351
84.41–84.89        71.01
84.415               154.144
97B.021              96.31
97B.045              96.31
Ch. 103F             154.140
103G.005, Subd. 14   154.146
103G.245             154.144;
                     154.150
103G.291             53.030
115.01               154.143
116.01 et seq.       Ch. 95
120A.05              115.01
120A.24              115.01
134                  30.082
144.391              117.01
145A.05              115.01
152.0263, Subd. 5    115.01
152.027, Subd. 1     96.31
152.027, Subd. 2     96.31
152.01–152.025     96.31
160                  Ch. 94
168                  70.01
168–171            Ch. 70
169                  70.01
169.011              71.10
169.045              71.10
169.045, Subd. 1(3)  71.10
169.045, Subd. 7     71.10
169.70               71.10
171                  70.01
Ch. 173              154.351
211B.045             154.351
216B.1642            154.235
Ch. 216D             55.05
216D.01-.09          55.05,
                     55.17
237.162              55.02,
                     55.10
237.163              55.10
237.163, Subd. 2(b)  55.01
237.163, Subd. 6     55.22
145.462, Subd. 23    115.01
299C.61–299C.62    33.01
303                  110.25
Ch. 326              150.02
326.241–326.248    Ch. 54
326B.101–326B.194  151.01
326B.106             151.06
326B.139             151.02
327.31               150.02
333                  110.25
340                  110.25
                     96.31;
                     110.01;
340A                 110.02;
                     110.23;
                     110.99
340A.14, Subd. 6     110.22
340A.29              110.22
340A.101             110.22 ;
                     150.02
340A.101, Subd. 7    110.25
340A.101(7)          Ch. 111
340A.285             110.22
340A.301, Subd. 6(c) 110.22
340A.301, Subd. 6(i) 110.22
340A.301, Subd. 6(j) 110.22
340A.401, Subd. 1    110.22
340A.404, Subd. 4a   110.22
340A.404, Subd. 4b   110.22
340A.404, Subd. 5    110.22
340A.408             110.23
340A.408, Subd. 2b   110.22
340A.504, Subd. 3    110.22
340A.504, Subd.3c    110.22
340A.414             110.35
340A.504             110.33
340A.509             110.02
Ch. 342              115.01;
                     115.02
342.01               116.01
342.01, Subd. 50     115.01
342.11               115.02
342.13               115.01
342.13(c)            115.01
342.17               115.01
342.22               115.01;
                     115.02
342.22, Subd. 4(b)   115.02
342.22, Subd. 5(e)   115.02
342.24               115.02
342.39, Subd. 2      115.04
342.40               115.04
342.40, Subd. 3–8  115.04
344.02, Subd. 1(a–d154.141
347.51               90.08
                     111.01;
                     111.04;
349                  111.60;
                     111.61;
                     111.75
349.11–349.21      111.99
349.11–349.23      111.65;
                     111.66
349.12               111.63
349.12, Subd. 7a     111.73
349.16               111.73
349.166              111.68
349.213              111.61
349.213, Subd. 2     111.04
364.06               33.01;
                     33.02
364.09               33.01;
                     33.02
366.10–366.19      153.129
394.21–394.37      153.129
394.27, Subd. 7      154.150
394.30               150.02
394.33               154.142
412.151              30.001
412.191–412.231    Ch. 30
412.221(6)           Ch. 53;
                     Ch. 94
412.221(7)           Ch. 50
412.221(8)           Ch. 50;
                     Ch. 93
412.221(11)          Ch. 53;
                     Ch. 50
412.221(17)          Ch. 91
412.221(18)          Ch. 50;
                     Ch. 94
412.221(22)          Ch. 51;
                     Ch. 95
412.221(23)          Ch. 95
412.221(24)          Ch. 95
412.221(25)          Ch. 111
412.221(28)          Ch. 54
412.221(32)          Ch. 95
412.241–412.311    Ch. 31
412.321–412.391    Ch. 54
412.491              Ch. 92
412.501              92.15
412.501–412.521    Ch. 92
412.591              Ch. 31
                     55.15 ;
Ch. 429              153.032;
                     154.083
429.01               94.003
429.101              51.02
443.015 et seq.      Ch. 51
444.075 et seq.      Ch. 53
444.075              52.01
461.12               117.99
Ch. 462              55.15 ;
                     154.140
462.351–462.365    Ch. 30 ;
                     153.129
462.354              Ch. 30
462.354, Subd. 2     150.02
                     94.020;
462.357              115.01;
                     154.002
462.357, Subd. 6     154.052
462.357, Subd. 6(2)  154.141
                     153.002;
462.358              153.019;
                     153.034
462.358, Subd. 2(b)  153.200
462.359, Subd. 4     154.052
462.3595             154.067
462.367, Subd. 14    115.03
463.21 et seq.       151.05
463.25               Ch. 94
466.02               154.007
466.07               154.007
471                  Ch. 70;
                     Ch. 95
471.57               31.03
471.6985             110.53
475.66               31.03
500.30               154.235;
                     154.255
504B.001             96.31
                     153.082;
505.021              153.098;
                     153.126
525.14               97.07
609.33               96.31
609.66               130.03
609.66–609.67      96.31
609.72               96.31;
                     130.02
609.74               154.347
609.75–609.76      96.31
609.75–609.763     111.65;
                     111.99
609.221              96.31
609.222              96.31
609.223              96.31
609.2231             96.31
609.224              96.31
609.293–609.352    113.07
609.321–609.3241   96.31
617                  113.06
617.23–617.299     96.31;
                     113.07
624.20–624.25      130.04
624.712–624.716    96.31
626.87, Subd. 1      33.01
                     
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2009 Code
Prior Code 2009 Code
1-3        10.05
2-1        30.001
2-1.1      30.002
2-1.2      30.003
2-2        30.015
2-2.1      30.016
2-3        30.030
2-4        30.031
2-5        30.032
2-6        30.033
2-7        30.034
2-8        30.034
2-9        30.034
2-10       30.035
2-11       30.036
2-12       30.037
2-13       30.038
2-14       30.039
2-15       30.040
7.1-1      96.01
7.1-2      96.02
7.1-3      96.03
7.1-4      96.04
7.1-5      96.99
7-16       54.01
7-18       54.02
7-19       54.03
7-20       54.04
7-21       54.05
7-22       54.06
7-23       54.07
7-24       54.08
7-25       54.09
7-26       54.10
7-27       54.99
7-28       54.25
7-29       54.26
7-30       54.27
7-31       54.28
7-32       54.29
7-33       54.30
7-34       54.31
7-35       54.32
7-36       54.33
7-37       54.34
7-42       54.35
8-1        31.01
8-2        31.02
8-3        31.02
8-4        31.02
8-5        31.03
9-6        91.01
9-7        91.02
9-8        91.02
9-9        91.03
9-10       91.04
9-11       91.05
9-12       91.06
9-13       91.07
9-14       91.08
9-15       91.09
9-16       91.10
9.2-1      111.01
9.2-2      111.02
9.2-3      111.03
9.2-4      111.04
9.2-5      111.05
10-1       51.01
10-1.1     51.02
10-2       51.20
10-3       51.21
10-4       51.22
10-5       51.23
10-6       51.24
10-7       51.25
10-8       51.26
10-9       51.27
10-10      51.40
10-11      51.41
10-12      51.42
10-13      51.43
10-14      51.44
10-15      51.45
10-16      51.46
10-17      51.47
11-1       95.40
12-12      111.20
12-13      111.21
12-14      111.21
12-15      111.21
12-16      111.21
12-17      111.21
12-18      111.21
12-19      111.21
12-20      111.22
12-21      111.23
12-22      111.24
12-23      111.25
12-24      111.26
12-25      111.27
12-26      111.28
12-27      111.99
12.2-1     113.01
12.2-2     113.02
12.2-3     113.03
12.2-4     113.04
12.2-5     113.05
12.2-6     113.06
12.2-7     113.07
12.2-8     113.08
12.2-9     113.09
12.2-10    113.10
12.2-11    113.11
12.2-12    113.12
12.2-13    113.13
13-1       70.01
13-2       70.01
13-2.1     70.02
13-3       70.20
13-3.1     70.21;
           70.99
13-4       70.22
13-5       70.23
13-6       70.24
13-6.1     70.25;
           70.99
13-6.2     70.26
13-7       70.27
13-8       70.40;
           70.99
13-9       70.41;
           70.99
14-1       95.20–
           95.24
15.1-1     92.01;
           92.99
15.1-2     92.02
15.1-6     92.15
15.1-8     92.16
15.1-9     92.17
15.1-10    92.18
15.1-11    92.19
15.1-12    92.20
15.1-13    92.21
15.1-14    92.22
15.1-15    92.23
15.1-16    92.24
15.1-17    92.25
15-2       130.01
15-3       130.01
15-4       130.01
15-5       130.01
15-6       130.02
15-7       130.03;
           130.99
15-8       130.04
15-9       130.05
16-1       112.01
16-2       112.02
16-2.5     112.03
16-3       112.04
16-4       112.05
16-5       112.06
16-6       112.07
16-7       112.08
16-8       112.09
16-9       112.10
16-10      112.11
16-11      112.12
16-12      112.13
16-13      112.14
16-14      112.15
16-15      112.16
16-16      112.99
18-1       111.40
18.1-1     50.01
18.1-2     50.02
18.1-3     50.03
18.1-4     50.04
18.1-5     50.05
18.1-6     50.06
18.1-7     50.99
18.1-8     50.20
18.1-9     50.21
18.1-10    50.22
18.1-11    50.23
18.1-12    50.24
18.1-13    50.25
18.1-14    50.26
18.1-15    50.27
18-2       111.41
18.2-1     95.01
18.2-2     95.02
18.2-3     95.03
18.2-4     95.99
18-3       111.42
18.3-1     32.01
18.3-2     32.01
18.3-3     32.01
18.3-4     32.02
18-4       111.43
18-5       111.43
18-6       111.43
18-7       111.43
18-8       111.43
18-9       111.43
18-10      111.43
18-11      111.43
18-12      111.43
19-1       71.01
19.1-2     71.14
19.1-3     71.14
19.1-4     71.14
19.1-5     71.14
19.1-6     71.99
19-2       71.14
19-3       71.14
19-4       71.14
19-5       71.14
19-6       71.99
20-1       94.001
20-1.1     94.002
20-2       94.003
20-2.1     94.004
20-3       94.040
20-4       94.041
20-5       94.042
20-6       94.043
20-7       94.044
20-8       94.045
20-9       94.046
20-10      94.060
20-11      94.061
20-12      94.062
20-13      94.063
20-14      94.064
20-15      94.064;
           94.999
20-16      94.080
20-17      94.081
20-18      94.082
20-19      94.083
20-20      94.083
20-21      94.020
20-22      94.021
20-23      94.021
20-24      94.022
20-25      94.023
20-26      94.024
20-27      94.025
20-28      94.026
20-29      94.027
21-5       71.50
21-6       71.51
21-7       71.52
21-8       71.53
21-9       71.54
22-1       93.01
22-2       93.02
22-3       93.03
22-4       93.04
22-5       93.05
22-6       93.06
22-7       93.06
22-8       93.07
22-9       93.08
22-10      93.09
22-11      93.10
22-11.1    93.11;
           93.99
22-12      93.25
22-13      93.26
22-14      93.26
22-15      93.26
22-16      93.27
22-17      93.28
22-18      93.28
22-19      93.29
22-20      93.99
23-1       53.001
23-2       53.001
23-3       53.002
23-4       53.003
23-6       53.020
23-7       53.021
23-8       53.022
23-9       53.023
23-11      53.024
23-12      53.025
23-13      53.026
23-14      53.027
23-15      53.028
23-16      53.029
23-17      53.999
23-18      53.040
23-19      53.041;
           53.999
23-20      53.999
23-21      53.055
23-22      53.056
23-23      53.057
23-24      53.058
23-25      53.059
23-26      53.060
23-27      53.061
23-28      53.061
23-29      53.061
23-30      53.061
23-31      53.061
23-32      53.061
23-33      53.061
23-34      53.062
23-35      53.063
23-36      53.064
23-37      53.065
23-38      53.066
23-39      53.067
23-40      53.068
23-41      53.080
23-42      53.081
23-43      53.081
23-44      53.081
23-45      53.082
23-48      53.083
23-49      53.084
23-50      53.085
23-51      53.086
23-52      53.086
23-53      53.086
23-54      53.087
23-55      53.088
23-56      53.089
23-57      53.090
23-58      53.999
23-61      53.105
23-62      53.106
23-63      52.107
23-71      53.120
23-72      53.121
23-73      53.122
23-74      53.123
23-75      53.124
23-76      53.125
25-1       30.095
25-2       30.096
25-3       30.097
25-4       30.098
25-5       30.099
25-6       30.100
25-7       30.101
25-8       30.102
25-9       30.103
25-10      30.104
26-1       30.075
26-2       30.076
26-3       30.077
26-4       30.078
26-5       30.079
26-6       30.080
26-7       30.081
26-8       30.082
26-9       30.083
27-1       30.055
27-2       30.056
27-3       30.057
27-4       30.058
27-5       30.059
27-6       30.060
28-1       96.20
28-2       96.21
28-3       96.21
28-4       96.22
28-5       96.23
28-6       96.24
28-7       96.25
28-9       96.26;
           96.99
28-10      96.27
28-11      96.28
28-12      96.29
28-13      96.30
28-14      96.31
28-15      96.32
28-16      96.33
28.1-1     97.01
28.1-2     97.02
28.1-7     97.03
28.1-8     97.04
28.1-9     97.05
28.1-10    97.06
28.1-11    97.07
28.2-1     52.01
28.2-2     52.02
28.2-3     52.03
28.2-4     52.04
28.2-5     52.05
28.2-6     52.06
28.2-7     52.07
28.2-8     52.08
28.2-9     52.09
28.2-10    52.10
28.2-11    52.11
29-1       114.01
29-2       114.02
29-3       114.03
29-4       114.04
29-5       114.05
29-6       114.06
29-7       114.07
29-8       114.08
29-9       114.09
29-10      114.10
29-11      114.11
29-12      114.12
29-13      114.13
29-14      114.14
29-15      114.15
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
169      - -         54.05
623      - -         53.999
912      - -         54.07
1382A    - -         54.09
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
-         - -         53.084
                      130.03;
53        - -         130.04;
                      130.99
99        - -         130.04
115       - -         130.02
209       - -         130.05
400       - -         130.02
408       - -         130.01
412       - -         94.080–
                      94.083
419       - -         94.040
430       - -         53.001
                      53.022;
                      53.023;
                      53.025–
431       - -         53.027;
                      53.029;
                      53.068;
                      94.040–
                      94.046
433       - -         111.40–
                      111.43
436       - -         31.01
441       - -         130.04
453       - -         93.01–
                      93.10
454       - -         71.50–
                      71.54
455       - -         31.02
459       - -         94.040–
                      94.046
                      94.060;
462       - -         94.061;
                      94.064;
                      94.999
                      70.20;
463       - -         70.23;
                      70.24;
                      70.27
                      70.20;
464       - -         70.22;
                      70.24;
                      70.27
469       - -         95.40
470       - -         70.01
479       - -         91.01–
                      91.10
480       - -         130.01
492       - -         54.25
494       - -         30.030–
                      30.040
                      93.25–
497       - -         93.29;
                      93.99
                      111.20–
504       - -         111.28;
                      111.99
507       - -         70.40
509       - -         70.21;
                      70.99
513       - -         30.032
                      54.02;
515       - -         54.04;
                      54.06
516       - -         93.11;
                      93.99
536       - -         70.25;
                      70.99
538       - -         53.999
539       - -         31.03
                      92.15;
                      92.16;
543       - -         92.18–
                      92.20;
                      92.22–
                      92.24
550       - -         130.03;
                      130.99
                      53.040;
                      53.041;
                      53.055–
                      53.067;
554       - -         53.081;
                      53.082;
                      53.086–
                      53.090;
                      53.999
                      50.01–
                      50.06;
556       - -         50.20–
                      50.26;
                      50.99
557       - -         130.03;
                      130.99
                      70.21;
570       - -         70.41;
                      70.99
                      96.01–
577       - -         96.04;
                      96.99
579       - -         70.02
586       - -         53.022
613       - -         50.23
623       - -         54.06
624       - -         54.02
627       - -         50.04
639       - -         94.063
640       - -         54.04
643       - -         30.002
645       - -         71.02;
                      71.99
646       - -         92.15
                      94.001;
647       - -         94.003;
                      94.004
650       - -         53.024;
                      54.08
652       - -         50.04
653       - -         54.04
665       - -         30.095–
                      30.104
668       - -         92.21
672       - -         53.027
673       - -         53.021
677       - -         94.045
685       - -         50.04
690       - -         30.002
698       - -         70.26
703       - -         30.031
704       - -         92.16
705       - -         30.099
706       - -         30.075–
                      30.083
712       - -         30.032
                      94.020–
723       - -         94.025;
                      94.027
                      113.01–
726       - -         113.13;
                      151.99
729       - -         50.27
731       - -         94.062
734       - -         92.01;
                      92.99
735       - -         111.01–
                      111.05
736       - -         30.015
737       - -         53.020
                      112.01–
738       - -         112.16;
                      112.99
                      95.01–
742       - -         95.03;
                      95.99
744       - -         94.002
                      50.01–
                      50.06;
748       - -         50.20–
                      50.27;
                      50.99
749       - -         54.10;
                      54.99
750       - -         30.003
751       - -         30.055–
                      30.060
                      51.02;
                      51.20–
752       - -         51.27;
                      51.40–
                      51.47
781       - -         54.25–
                      54.35
753       - -         30.016
755       - -         71.02
756       - -         92.25
758       - -         32.01;
                      32.02
                      53.020–
                      53.029;
                      53.040;
                      53.041;
                      53.055–
759       - -         53.068;
                      53.080–
                      53.083;
                      53.085–
                      53.090;
                      53.999
761       - -         50.04
                      30.002;
                      50.27;
                      54.04;
                      54.06;
                      54.08;
                      54.09;
                      70.25;
                      70.40;
                      70.99;
                      93.11;
                      93.99;
762       - -         95.99;
                      111.04;
                      111.21;
                      111.43;
                      111.99;
                      112.05;
                      150.21;
                      151.02;
                      151.99;
                      152.023;
                      152.054;
                      154.033
                      94.020;
                      94.021;
763       - -         94.023–
                      94.025;
                      94.027
764       - -         92.17
765       - -         30.076
769       - -         51.01
773       - -         30.001
775       - -         95.20–
                      95.24
776       - -         53.002;
                      53.003
778       - -         50.04
781       - -         54.25–
                      54.34
782       - -         30.016
784       - -         51.01
                      53.081;
786       - -         53.084;
                      53.086
788       - -         53.020;
                      53.084
793       - -         71.02
796       - -         92.02
798       - -         53.083–
                      53.085
                      96.20–
800       - -         96.33;
                      96.99
803       - -         97.01–
                      97.07
804       - -         71.14;
                      71.99
806       - -         70.21;
                      70.99
808       - -         52.01–
                      52.11
809       - -         53.020
810       - -         94.024;
                      94.027
813       - -         114.01–
                      114.15
815       - -         53.083–
                      53.085
816       - -         30.016
                      53.105–
817       - -         53.107;
                      53.120–
                      53.125
819       - -         97.07
                      53.020;
823       - -         53.083–
                      53.085
824       - -         53.124
2670      - -         53.135–
                      53.147
439       8-29-1967   54.01–
                      54.04
-         8-16-1971   53.068
-         3-19-1975   53.027
682       2-17-1993   50.04;
                      54.01
684       5-19-1993   50.04;
                      54.01
                      53.020;
825       1-28-2008   53.083;
                      53.084;
                      53.085
827       6-11-2008   71.14
828       6-11-2008   94.020–
                      94.027
                      53.020;
833       11-25-2008  53.083;
                      53.084;
                      53.085
836       5-27-2009   53.020;
                      53.086
837       11-12-2009  53.083–
                      53.085
838       1-13-2010   Adoption Ordinance
839       5-26-2010   53.083–
                      53.085
846       11-14-2012  33.01;
                      33.02
847       1-9-2013    30.016
852       7-9-2014    30.016
856       9-9-2015    30.001
                      90.01–
857       10-14-2015  90.16;
                      90.99
858       1-13-2016   54.11
860       8-18-2016   70.24;
                      70.25
862       10-26-2016  30.032
863       10-26-2016  30.032
865       11-22-2016  50.04;
                      50.23
866       6-14-2017   90.02
868       8-23-2017   71.50–
                      71.54
869       9-13-2017   90.01
870       11-22-2017  55.01–
                      55.23
                      90.30–
864       1-10-2018   90.36;
                      90.99
871       3-14-2018   53.030
                      110.01;
                      110.02;
                      110.04–
                      110.06;
–       4-11-2018   110.20–
                      110.36;
                      110.50–
                      110.54;
                      110.99
872       6-13-2018   71.10–
                      71.14
873       9-25-2019   110.31
874       5-14-2020   110.22
                      53.068;
875       3-11-2020   53.106;
                      53.122–
                      53.124
878       9-23-2020   30.016
                      150.01;
                      150.02;
                      151.01–
                      151.07;
                      151.99;
                      152.01–
                      152.04;
                      152.99;
                      153.001–
                      153.004;
                      153.015–
                      153.020;
                      153.030–
                      153.036;
                      153.050–
                      153.054;
                      153.065–
                      153.067;
                      153.080–
                      153.085;
                      153.095–
                      153.098;
                      153.110–
                      153.114;
                      153.125–
                      153.129;
                      153.140;
                      153.141;
                      153.155–
                      153.158;
                      153.170–
                      153.172;
                      153.185–
                      153.189;
                      153.200–
                      153.203;
                      153.999;
                      154.001–
                      154.007;
879       10-28-2020  154.020–
                      154.025;
                      154.035;
                      154.036;
                      154.050–
                      154.052;
                      154.065–
                      154.070;
                      154.080–
                      154.084,
                      154.095;
                      154.096;
                      154.110–
                      154.114;
                      154.125–
                      154.127;
                      154.160;
                      154.161;
                      154.175–
                      154.178;
                      154.190–
                      154.194;
                      154.205–
                      154.208;
                      154.220–
                      154.222;
                      154.235;
                      154.245;
                      154.255–
                      154.257;
                      154.270–
                      154.282;
                      154.295–
                      154.298;
                      154.310–
                      154.312;
                      154.325–
                      154.327;
                      154.340–
                      154.351
                      154.067;
1.1-2021  2-10-2021   154.068;
                      154.084
                      150.02;
1.2-2021  2-10-2021   154.112;
                      154.205;
                      154.206
                      150.02;
6.1-2021  6-23-2021   154.235;
                      154.255
                      90.01;
                      90.03;
6.2-2021  6-23-2021   90.16;
                      150.02;
                      154.112;
                      154.206
6.3-2021  6-23-2021   154.344
8.1-2021  8-11-2021   154.312
7.2-22  7-13-2022   154.071
8.1-22    8-18-2022   110.31
3.1-23    3-22-2023   110.22
                      117.01–
3.2-2023  3-22-2023   117.10;
                      117.99
6.1-23    6-14-2023   51.02
                      116.01;
8.1-23    8-23-2023   116.02;
                      116.99
8.2-23    8-23-2023   71.10
8.3-23    8-23-2023   154.312
10.1-24   10-23-2024  154.312
3.1-24    3-13-2024   154.310
3.2-24    3-13-2024   154.311
8.1-24    8-28-2024   154.140-
                      154.153
10.1-24   10-23-2024  154.312
12.1.24   12-18-2024  115.01-
                      115.04
                      111.60–
8.1-25    8-13-2025   111.76;
                      111.99
                     
 
