CITY OF LAFAYETTE, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 151, passed 3-10-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
CITY OFFICIALS
Mayor               Curtis Tauber
Council Members
David Reed
Tom Polich
Andrew Hartley
Logan VanDeest
Fire Chief          Nick Klingler
Ambulance President Mark Dick
Clerk/Treasurer     Sandy Burger
                    
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NUMBER 122
CITY OF LAFAYETTE
COUNTY OF NICOLLET
STATE OF MINNESOTA
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCE FOR THE CITY OF LAFAYETTE
MINNESOTA, AMENDING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS Minnesota Statutes Sections 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to
cause its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book,
NOW THEREFORE the City Council of the City of Lafayette, Minnesota, ordains:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the city as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various previsions thereof, are hereby adopted and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Lafayette.” This Code of
Ordinances also adopts by reference certain statutes and administrative rules
of the State of Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
Section 2. Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following titles:
      TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      INDEX
      PARALLEL REFERENCES
Section 3. All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code
of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or part in
the Code of Ordinances; provided, this repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions of the
ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting
easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or setting the
boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall this repeal affect any
other ordinance of temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code of Ordinances. All fees established in
prior ordinances codified in this Code shall remain in effect unless amended in
this code or until an ordinance adopting a fee schedule is adopted or amended.
Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a sufficient
publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously published in the
City’s official newspaper. The Clerk of the City shall cause a substantial
quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general distribution to
the public at actual cost and shall furnish a copy of the Code of Ordinances to
the County Law Library or its designated depository. The official copy of this
Code of Ordinances shall marked and be kept in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of the
law of the City and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the Courts of the State of Minnesota.
Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon the publication of this ordinance in
the city’s official newspaper.
PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF LAFAYETTE, MINNESOTA THIS 14th DAY OF November,
2016.
Approved:
 
Darren Saffert, Mayor
Attest:
 
Sandy Burger, City Clerk
First Reading: 10/10/2016
Second Reading/Adoption: 11/14/2016
Publication: 11/17/2016
ORDINANCE NUMBER 127
CITY OF LAFAYETTE
COUNTY OF NICOLLET
STATE OF MINNESOTA
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF LAFAYETTE, NICOLLET COUNTY, MINNESOTA.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2017-S1 and 2018-S2 supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Lafayette, which supplements contains all of the ordinances of a
general and permanent nature enacted since the prior Code of Ordinances of the
City of Lafayette; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect at an
early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LAFAYETTE:
Section 1.    That the 2017-S1 and 2018-S2 supplements to the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Lafayette as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, as the attached hereto, be and the same hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of
Lafayette is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copies of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Lafayette on this 10th
day of December, 2018.
Approved:
______________________Mayor Norman Langhoff               First Reading: 11/13/
2018
                                    Second Reading/Adoption: 12/10/2018
Attest:
______________________City Clerk Sandra Burger
CITY OF LAFAYETTE
ORDINANCE NUMBER 130
COUNTY OF NICOLLET
STATE OF MINNESOTA
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF LAFAYETTE, NICOLLET COUNTY, MINNESOTA.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2019 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lafayette, which supplement contains all of the ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lafayette; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect at an
early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LAFAYETTE:
Section 1.   That the 2019 – S3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Lafayette as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, as the attached hereto, be and the same hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.    Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of
Lafayette is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copies of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Lafayette on this 12th
day of November, 2019.
Approved:
______________________Mayor Tom Sandberg
First Reading: 10/14/2019
Second Reading/Adoption: 11/12/2019
Attest:
______________________City Clerk Sandy Burger
ORDINANCE NUMBER 133
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT
TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF LAFAYETTE,
NICOLLET COUNTY, MINNESOTA.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2020 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lafayette, which supplement contains all of the ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lafayette; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect at an
early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LAFAYETTE:
Section 1.    That the 2020 - S4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Lafayette as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, as the attached hereto, be and the same hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.    Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of
Lafayette is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copies of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Lafayette on this 14th
day of December, 2020.
Approved:
______________________Interim Mayor Dave Reed
First Reading: Waived
Second Reading/Adoption: 12/14/2020
 
Attest:
______________________City Clerk Sandy Burger
ORDINANCE NUMBER 135
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE CITY OF LAFAYETTE, NICOLLET COUNTY, MINNESOTA.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2021 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lafayette, which supplement contains all of the ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lafayette; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect at an
early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LAFAYETTE:
Section 1.   That the 2021 - S5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Lafayette as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, as the attached hereto, be and the same hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of
Lafayette is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copies of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Lafayette on this 13th
day of September, 2021.
Approved:
______________________Mayor Sandie Peterson
First Reading: Waived
Second Reading/Adoption: 9/13/2021
 
Attest:
______________________
City Clerk Sandy Burger
ORDINANCE NUMBER 140
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE CITY OF LAFAYETTE, NICOLLET COUNTY, MINNESOTA.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2022 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lafayette, which supplement contains all of the ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lafayette; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect at an
early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LAFAYETTE:
Section 1.   That the 2022 - S6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Lafayette as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, as the attached hereto, be and the same hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of
Lafayette is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copies of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Lafayette on this 10th
day of October, 2022.
Approved:
______________________
Mayor Sandie Peterson
First Reading: Waived
Second Reading/Adoption: 10/10/2022
Attest:
______________________
City Clerk Sandy Burger
ORDINANCE NUMBER 145
AN ORDIANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF LAFAYETTE, NICOLLET COUNTY, MINNESOTA.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2023 S-7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lafayette, which supplement contains all of the ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lafayette; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect at an
early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LAFAYETTE:
Section 1.       That the 2023 – S7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Lafayette as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, as the attached hereto, be and the same hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.       Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of
its adoption and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of
Lafayette is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copies of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Lafayette on this 12th
day of February, 2024.
Approved:
Mayor
First Reading: Waived
Second Reading/Adoption:
 
Sandra Peterson
Attest:
City Clerk Sandra Burger
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
 
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
   
Appendix A:   Notice of code violation
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense; however, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as presently
established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a
future time. The term CITY when used in this code may also be used to refer to
the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Nicollet County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-ways,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk
for public inspection. The Clerk shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable
charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code
of ordinances, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code
of ordinances, all future supplements are hereby adopted as if they had been in
existence at the time this code was enacted, unless there is clear intention
expressed in the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk shall have the authority to administer and enforce this
code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the code or by the Clerk or City Council shall have the
authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and any
person or persons designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk and any city official or employee designated by this
code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may, with the
permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident of
a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the duty of
enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable cause
exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of competent
jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting the
inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only to
determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Clerk or any other authorized city officer or employee
only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce
these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection of or entrance
to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all permits,
licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given to the
licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property, stating
the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner, resident or other
person in control of the property shall be given an opportunity to appear
before the City Clerk to object to the termination before it occurs, subject to
appeal of the Clerk’s decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or
special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create by resolution, adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
The resolution may be in the form established by the City Council. The
resolution may not proscribe administrative penalties for traffic offenses
designated by M.S. § 169.999, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Clerk or other person
giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code, in a written
notice of an alleged violation, sent by first class mail to the person who is
alleged to have violated the code, the person giving notice may request the
payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation directly to the
City Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of the violation. A sample notice
is contained in Appendix A to this chapter. In the sole discretion of the
person giving the notice of the alleged violation, the time for payment may be
extended an additional 14 days, whether or not requested by the person to whom
the notice has been given. In addition to the administrative penalty, the
person giving notice may request in the notice to the alleged violator to adopt
a compliance plan to correct the situation resulting in the alleged violation
and may provide that if the alleged violator corrects the situation resulting
in the alleged violation within the time specified in the notice, that the
payment of the administrative penalty will be waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including state statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including state statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time to time, in
either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of
prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of
this code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation.
APPENDIX A: NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
To: (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From: (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re: Alleged violation of Section of the City Code, relating to (give title of
section)
Date: (Date of notice)
   I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated §                 
of the City Code relating to
                                                                                                                                    
.
   The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in
the amount of $         for this violation.
   Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay
it, the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
   Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due
date, you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
   As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by
                        (establish date), then the payment of the
administrative penalty will be waived.
   Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or
abate the violation.
   Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the
Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to
renew the request for payment. Because the payment of the administrative
penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the
Council.
   If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash or money
order to the City Treasurer.
Signed:                                                               
   (Name and Title of Person Giving Notice)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   AMBULANCE SERVICE
      
32.   FIRE DEPARTMENT AUXILIARY
      
33.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
      
34.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Clerk and Treasurer
   
30.02   Constable
   
30.03   Salaries
§ 30.01 CLERK AND TREASURER.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. § 412.02, as it may be
amended from time to time, the offices of Clerk and Treasurer in the city are
hereby combined in the office of Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Beginning with the year in which this section becomes effective and
each year thereafter, there shall be an audit of the city’s financial affairs
by the public examiner or a public accountant in accordance with minimum
auditing procedures prescribed by the public examiner.
(Ord. 48, passed 12-12-1969)
§ 30.02 CONSTABLE.
   The office of constable for the city is hereby abolished.
(Ord. 53, passed 9-5-1973)
§ 30.03 SALARIES.
   (A)   The salaries of members of Council and officers and employees of the
city shall be set by the Council from time to time.
   (B)   City Council salaries.
      (1)   The Mayor of the City Council:
         (a)   Will receive a salary $1,500 (equal to $125 per monthly meeting)
for serving as Mayor and performing all duties associated with the office;
         (b)   Will receive $55 per special meeting, public hearing or board
meeting;
         (c)   Will receive $55 per day for attendance at a training, seminar,
conference and meeting attended as a designated representative of the city.
      (2)   Each member of the City Council:
         (a)   Will receive a salary of $1,200 (equal to $100 per monthly
meeting) for serving on the Council and performing all duties associated with
the office;
         (b)   Will receive $30 per special meeting or public hearing;
         (c)   Will receive $45 per day for attendance at a training, seminar,
conference and meeting attended as a designated representative of the city.
         (d)   The Acting Mayor (Pro Tem) will receive $55 per special meeting,
public hearing, or board meeting attended in place of the Mayor.
      (3)   Following M.S. § 415.1, the effective date of this section is
January 1, 2021, which follows the next regular city election to be held on
Tuesday, November 3, 2020.
(Ord. 129, passed 5-13-2019)
CHAPTER 31: AMBULANCE SERVICE
Section
Ambulance Service
   
31.01   Volunteer ambulance personnel
   
31.02   Officers
   
31.03   President
   
31.04   Vice President
   
31.05   Secretary/Treasurer
   
31.06   Training officer
   
31.07   Vehicle maintenance officer
   
31.08   Qualifications of all personnel
   
31.09   Compensation
   
31.10   Meetings
   
31.11   Record-keeping
   
31.12   Service area
   
31.13   Billings
   
31.14   False alarms; interference with ambulance service
Ambulance Service Commission
   
31.30   Established
   
31.31   Composition, appointment; term and oath; filling vacancies
   
31.32   Meetings of the Commission
   
31.33   Rules, records, reports and budget of Commission
   
31.34   City Attorney and other city officers to cooperate with and assist
Commission
   
31.35   Title to property; rights reserved to Council; establishment of rates
for and policies governing ambulance services
Cross-reference:
   Finance and Taxes, see
Chapter 33
   Fire Department, see
Chapter 34
   Fire Department Auxiliary, see
Chapter 32
   General Provisions, see
Chapter 30
AMBULANCE SERVICE
§ 31.01 VOLUNTEER AMBULANCE PERSONNEL.
   The city has established a volunteer ambulance service consisting of a
President, Vice President, Secretary/Treasurer, Vehicle Maintenance Officer and
Training Officer, and as many ambulance volunteers as can be obtained.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
§ 31.02 OFFICERS.
   (A)   Officers of the Association shall be a President, Vice President,
Secretary/Treasurer, Training Officer and Vehicle Maintenance Officer.
   (B)   The officers shall be selected by Council after consulting with the
ambulance service to serve for one year or until their successors are selected
and qualified. Their term of office shall begin on April 1 following the annual
meeting held in March.
   (C)   No member shall hold more than one office at a time.
   (D)   In the event an officer is removed, resigns or is unable to act, a
successor shall be appointed by the City Council after consulting with the
Ambulance Service to fill the unexpired term of the officer.
   (E)   Officers are subject to removal by the City Council upon advice and
consent of the Ambulance Commission.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
§ 31.03 PRESIDENT.
   This person will be responsible for the general supervision of the
organization. The President will conduct all business meetings of the Ambulance
Service.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
§ 31.04 VICE PRESIDENT.
   In the absence or disability of the President, the Vice President shall
perform all functions and duties of the Office of the President.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
§ 31.05 SECRETARY/TREASURER.
   The Secretary/Treasurer shall keep the official minutes from all regular,
special and executive board meetings. He or she shall also keep the financial
records for the Association and report on the financial condition of the
service at each regular meeting.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
§ 31.06 TRAINING OFFICER.
   The Training Officer shall be responsible for lining up training throughout
the year. The Training Officer will also be the contact person for lining up
CPR classes and first aid classes for the general public and coordinating these
classes with the instructors.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
§ 31.07 VEHICLE MAINTENANCE OFFICER.
   The Vehicle Maintenance Officer shall be responsible for the upkeep of all
areas of maintenance of the rig (i.e., regular oil changes and other fluid
checks and changes); scheduling of cleaning of inside and outside of the rig;
making sure rig checks are done monthly; and correcting any problems associated
with the rig. He or she will also maintain equipment and make sure it is in
good working order and make recommendations on new equipment to be purchased or
replacement of current equipment.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
§ 31.08 QUALIFICATIONS OF ALL PERSONNEL.
   (A)   (1)   In order to be eligible for membership in this Association,
persons must be of good moral character and must be in good physical condition.
      (2)   To be a regular team member, it is required that a member be at
least 18 years of age and have the following:
         (a)   Valid and current EMT license;
         (b)   Current CPR Card;
         (c)   Must have completed at least two hours of actual training using
the equipment which he or she will actually be using in the Association; and
         (d)   Valid driver’s license.
   (B)   Before acceptance into the Association, the Ambulance Service shall
ascertain that the new member understands the terms and conditions of being a
volunteer.
   (C)   Any member desiring to resign from the Association shall submit his or
her resignation in writing to the Secretary, who will present it to the
Ambulance Service for action. Members whose actions while on call would
indicate that they may not perform in the best interests the service for which
it is organized to perform, may be removed, with the advice and consent of the
Mayor and City Attorney, after careful investigation of the problems involved.
Written notice of the removal shall be served in person or sent to the member
by registered mail, return receipt. A member may appeal the removal, to the
City Council by requesting a hearing before the Council in writing within ten
days of receipt of the notice of removal.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
§ 31.09 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Compensation to the members of the Association for services performed
shall be at rates fixed from time to time by the City Council.
   (B)   It should be understood that compensation covers three areas:
      (1)   Call duty pay;
      (2)   Monthly meetings; and
      (3)   Officer’s salaries.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
§ 31.10 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the Association shall be held on the last
Monday of each month.
   (B)   The regular meeting on the last Monday in March shall be known as the
annual meeting and shall be for the purpose of electing officers, receiving
reports of officers and committees, and for any other business that may arise.
   (C)   Special meetings may be called by the President or upon the written
request of one-third of current members of the Association. The purpose of the
special meeting shall be cited in the call. Except in case of emergency, at
least three days’ written notice shall be given.
   (D)   The presence of a majority of the members shall constitute a quorum.
   (E)   Training will be held at each regular meeting.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
§ 31.11 RECORD-KEEPING.
   The City Clerk’s office shall keep in a convenient form, a complete record
of all ambulance calls, which shall include the time of the call, the location
of the call and the cause thereof, the disposition of the patient, members of
the service responding to the call and other information as he or she may deem
advisable and as may be required from time to time by the City Ambulance
Service Commission and the State Health Department.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
§ 31.12 SERVICE AREA.
   The City Volunteer Ambulance Service shall serve the city and any other
contracted areas in townships.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
§ 31.13 BILLINGS.
   When an ambulance call has been made, the City Clerk’s office shall bill the
responsible party or parties for the amount of the services.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
§ 31.14 FALSE ALARMS; INTERFERENCE WITH AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly give or make, or cause to
be made, a call for ambulance service without probable cause or to neglect to
obey any reasonable order of the driver or attendants at an ambulance call or
to interfere with the city ambulance service’s discharge of its duties.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
AMBULANCE SERVICE COMMISSION
§ 31.30 ESTABLISHED.
   The Ambulance Service Commission of the city is established under the
jurisdiction, authority and control of the Council of this city.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
§ 31.31 COMPOSITION, APPOINTMENT; TERM AND OATH; FILLING VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Ambulance Service Commission as established shall consist of one
representative from the City Community Fire Protection Association, the City
Council and the President, Vice President and Secretary/Treasurer of Ambulance
Service.
   (B)   The members of the Ambulance Service Commission shall be appointed by
the Council of the city each year for a term of one year, and until their
successors are appointed and have qualified. Vacancies which may occur during
the term of office of any of the members of the Commission for any reason shall
be filled by the political subdivision affected for the unexpired portion of
the then-current term.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
§ 31.32 MEETINGS OF THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   Annual meeting. The annual meeting of the City Ambulance Service
Commission shall be held on the last Monday in January of each year at which
time the Commission shall select by a majority vote by ballot from among the
members thereof, a Chairperson; Vice Chairperson and Secretary to serve for a
term of one year or until their successors are elected and qualified. The
Commission may create and fill among its members such other offices and
committees as it may from time to time determine to be expedient.
   (B)   Special meetings. The City Ambulance Service Commission may hold
special meetings pursuant to call thereof by the Chairperson or by three
members of the Commission pursuant to due notice of the time and place thereof
and the business to be considered.
   (C)   Notice of meetings. Seventy-two hours’ notice in writing setting forth
the time and place of meeting, and in the case of special meetings, the
business to be transacted, shall be given each member of the Commission
personally or by ordinary mail. Notice of meeting may be waived in writing at
the time of meeting. Attendance at and participation in any meeting by a member
of the Commission shall constitute waiver of notice thereof.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
§ 31.33 RULES, RECORDS, REPORTS AND BUDGET OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   The City Ambulance Service Commission shall adopt rules for the
transaction of business and shall keep a complete record of its proceedings,
which record shall be public record.
   (B)   A copy of the minutes of each annual or special meeting of the
Commission shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (C)   A record of all special proceedings shall also be filed with the City
Clerk.
   (D)   The Commission shall submit reports as the Council and any other
participating political subdivision may from time to time require and request.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
§ 31.34 CITY ATTORNEY AND OTHER CITY OFFICERS TO COOPERATE WITH AND ASSIST
COMMISSION.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall act as Attorney for the City Ambulance Service
Commission and shall advise the Commission as to matters of law.
   (B)   The City Clerk, and other officers of the city, shall render aid and
furnish information to the Commission as may be required and requested to
facilitate performance of its duties.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
§ 31.35 TITLE TO PROPERTY; RIGHTS RESERVED TO COUNCIL; ESTABLISHMENT OF RATES
FOR AND POLICIES GOVERNING AMBULANCE SERVICES.
   The following rules and regulations are hereby enacted and adopted for the
purpose of outlining, defining and determining the duties, responsibilities and
activities of the City Ambulance Service Commission.
   (A)   Retention of powers. In order to comply with enabling legislation, the
city shall have, maintain and retain title to the property, including real
estate and personal property used for, incident to or in connection with the
City Ambulance Service and the City Ambulance Service Commission and shall
retain unto itself the obligation, power and authority to establish, enforce,
order, codify, amend and repeal all ordinances, rules and regulations for the
governing of the City Ambulance Service Commission whether herein created and
established or otherwise defined.
   (B)   Setting of ambulance rates. The City Ambulance Service Commission
shall, at its annual meeting, review the respective rates for ambulance service
to participating and nonparticipating townships and other political
subdivisions and recommend adjustments as are necessary to meet costs of
operation and replacement of equipment.
   (C)   Ambulance policies. It shall be the function and duty of the City
Ambulance Service Commission to prepare and to submit to the Council, for
approval, ambulance service policies.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-25-1991)
CHAPTER 32: FIRE DEPARTMENT AUXILIARY
Section
   
32.01   Purpose
   
32.02   Membership
   
32.03   Requirements
   
32.04   Removal
§ 32.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the City Fire Department Auxiliary is to provide assistance
on an as-needed basis to the City Fire Department. The Auxiliary will be called
to duty at the request of the City Fire Chief or the Senior Fire Department
Office on scene if the Fire Chief is unavailable.
(Ord. 108, passed 3-24-2014)
§ 32.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   Membership on the Fire Department Auxiliary is on a voluntary, unpaid basis.
In order to qualify as a member of the Auxiliary, an applicant must have been
at minimum a member in good standing of the City Fire Department for 20 years.
Application to be a member of the Auxiliary must be submitted to and approved
by the City Fire Department. A member of the Auxiliary is not a voting member
of the Fire Department; however, a member of the Auxiliary is eligible for
membership on the City Fire Department Relief Association.
(Ord. 108, passed 3-24-2014)
§ 32.03 REQUIREMENTS.
   A member of the Auxiliary, under no circumstances, is allowed to perform
interior firefighting. A member shall assist the City Fire Department and
perform the duties, as requested and directed by the City Fire Chief or Senior
Officer acting in place of the Fire Chief. A member may, as requested, drive
Fire Department vehicles to and from the scene. Members must attend the annual
driving class in order to qualify and remain a member of the auxiliary. Members
shall also assist with Fire Department functions as requested.
(Ord. 108, passed 3-24-2014)
§ 32.04 REMOVAL.
   A member of the Auxiliary may be removed from the Auxiliary for good cause
upon majority vote of the voting members of the City Fire Department.
(Ord. 108, passed 3-24-2014)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
   
33.01   Rural service district
   
33.02   Collection of costs of current services when performed by the city as a
special assessment against the benefitted property
   
33.03   Procedure for administrative penalties
   
33.04   Computer and computer equipment reimbursment
   
33.05   Fee schedule
§ 33.01 RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   The lands described in Exhibit A, attached to the ordinance codified
herein, do hereby constitute a rural service district as described in M.S. §
272.67, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall be taxed in
accordance with this section.
   (B)   The approximate ratio existing between the benefits resulting from
tax-supported municipal services to parcels in the rural service district, as
compared to those not in the rural service district is 25%, and the mill rate
to be levied upon the rural service district lands shall be determined by
multiplying the mill rate in the non-rural service district by the ratio
contained in this section.
(Ord. 67, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 33.02 COLLECTION OF COSTS OF CURRENT SERVICES WHEN PERFORMED BY THE CITY AS A
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT AGAINST THE BENEFITTED PROPERTY.
   (A)   The following constitute assessable current services:
      (1)   Weed elimination. Whenever the city cuts or removes any weeds,
whether noxious as defined by law or not, growing upon any lot or parcel of
land, including within the adjacent right-of-way outside the traveled portion
of the street or alley, to a height greater than six inches or which have gone
or are about to go to seed in violation of
Chapter 92;
      (2)   Public health and safety hazards. Whenever the city removes or
eliminates public health or safety hazards from private property in violation
of
Chapter 92 regulating refuse, junk and nuisances or as otherwise determined
under M.S. § 412.221, Subd. 23, as it may be amended from time to time. This
does not apply to hazardous buildings under M.S. §§ 463.15 to 463.26, as they
may be amended from time to time;
      (3)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property under
Chapter 52, regulating water or wastewater service lines serving private
property under Chapter 53, regulating wastewater; and
      (4)   Repair of right-of-way. Whenever the city restores disturbed or
excavated right-of-way to its previous condition under Minnesota Rules
7819.1100.
   (B)   The city shall provide ten days’ written notice to the owner or
occupant of the property prior to performing the current service.
      (1)   The notice requirement may be waived in cases requiring immediate
action by the city or at the request of the owner or occupant.
      (2)   The notice shall specify that the property owner will be liable for
the expense of the work and that if not paid the charge for the work shall be
made a special assessment against the property.
   (C)   The city shall keep a record showing the cost of the work attributable
to each separate lot and parcel. The cost may include reimbursement to the city
for reasonable administrative costs.
   (D)   The owner of property on which or adjacent to which a current service
has been performed shall be personally liable for the cost of the service. Upon
completion of the current service and determination of the cost, the City Clerk
may bill the owner and thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and
payable.
   (E)   Prior to certifying the unpaid cost, of a current service as a special
assessment against the property, the city shall provide two weeks mailed notice
to the owner. The city shall provide the opportunity for a hearing under M.S. §
429.061, as it may be amended from time to time. The City Council may then
spread the charges against the benefitted property as a special assessment
under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, for collection
with interest along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding ten, as the City Council may determine in each
case.
(Ord. 97, passed 1-9-2006)
§ 33.03 PROCEDURE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   Purpose. Administrative penalty procedures established pursuant to
this section are intended to provide the public and the city with an informal
cost effective and expeditious alternative to address violations of city code.
The administrative penalty procedures outlined in this section do not apply to
any violation of M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Process. City staff is hereby given authority to issue administrative
citations for violation of city ordinances. The City Council shall appoint up
to three citizens, who are not city staff or members of the City Council, to
hear challenges to the issuance of administrative citations. Any person who
receives an administrative citation may appeal the citation to that body. The
hearing body will then consider whether or not the complaining party should be
required to pay the citation. The hearing body’s decision shall be final.
   (C)   Notice and payment. In the discretion of the issuing person,
violations of the provisions of the city ordinance listed in the City Council
resolution (as amended from time to time) “Adopting a Schedule of Offenses and
Establishing Administrative Penalties” may be enforced by issuing, on a
citation form authorized by the City Attorney, a request to make payment for
the violation directly to the city within seven days of the violation. A late
charge of 10% shall be imposed for each seven days the requested penalty
remains unpaid after the requested payment is due.
   (D)   Amount of payment. The amount payable for an applicable violation
shall be as set in the city fee schedule, and shall be paid directly to the
City Treasury. In the event that a party is charged with a subsequent violation
within a 12-month period, the subsequent request for payment shall be increased
by 25% above the previous payment.
   (E)   Failure to pay. Failure to make payment for the violation in the time
specified will result in the late charge described above and may, in the
discretion of the issuing person in consultation with the City Attorney, result
in further action or collection efforts consistent with applicable statutes and
ordinances.
(Ord. 107, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 33.04 COMPUTER AND COMPUTER EQUIPMENT REIMBURSEMENT
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to provide for
reimbursement to the Mayor, City Council and other city staff at the City
Council’s discretion, for a computer or other electronic device to be used in
their performance as members of the Lafayette City Council.
   (B)   Reimbursement.
      (1)   The Mayor, City Council members and other city staff as determined
by the City Council, will be provided reimbursement by the city for a computer
or other appropriate electronic device or software purchased for use in their
official capacity as City Council members in a maximum amount of $800 with
receipt for proof of purchase of said equipment.
      (2)   The reimbursement will be done once per member per elected term of
office or, for staff members, as deemed appropriate by the City Council.
      (3)   The computer purchases reimbursed under this section are the
personal property of the Mayor, Council member or staff member. The Mayor and
individual Council members may refuse this benefit.
      (4)   Only those Council members in office on January 1, 2015 and
thereafter will be eligible for this equipment reimbursement. Notwithstanding
the preceding provision, a Mayor elect and Council members elect who will take
office effective January 1 of any year may be reimbursed after January 1 of any
year, for their computer equipment purchased prior to the effective date of the
commencement of their terms in office. Also, any Mayor or Council member in
office at the time of the effective date of this section may receive said
reimbursement within six months of the effective date.
   (C)   Pooling of resources. Elected officials and staff eligible for
equipment reimbursement under this section, may, if they choose, jointly
solicit bids, quotes, or RFPs for their equipment for the purposes of cost
efficiency. Persons purchasing equipment under this section will submit
receipts to the City Clerk/Treasurer to receive a reimbursement through a
payroll check to eliminate an IRS fringe benefit infraction. Reimbursement of
the sales tax will not be included.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-8-2015; Ord. 148, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 33.05 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following fee schedule is hereby adopted for 2024:
 Note 2024
                                 Note                              2024
Administrative fees                                                
First offense                                                     $75.00
Second offense                                                    $150.00
Each additional offense                                           $150.00
Utilities                                                          
Farm fill flow charge            per 1,000 gallons                 $6.00
Meter deposit                                                     $40.00
Residential sewer base                                            $32.00
Residential sewer flow                                            $6.70
Commercial sewer base                                             $33.00
Commercial sewer flow                                             $6.70
Sewer hook-up                                                     $1,000.00
Sump pump waiver                                                  $25.00
Utility late fee                 water, sewer                      $15.00
Utility reconnect fee                                             $100.00
Residential water base                                            $34.00
Residential water flow                                            $5.85
Commercial water base                                             $35.00
Commercial water flow                                             $5.85
Water hook-up                                                     $700.00
High water usage                 per 10,000 after 20,001           $15.00
Capital Improvement Fee          well payoff - improvements        $6.00
Liquor                                                             
On-sale intoxicating                                              $1,400.00
Off-sale intoxicating                                             $100.00
Combo on/off-sale intoxicating                                    $1,500.00
Temporary intoxicating           per day                           $25.00
On-sale non-intoxicating (3.2)                                    $90.00
Off-sale non-intoxicating (3.2)                                   $25.00
Temporary non-intoxicating (3.2) per day                           $5.00
On-sale Sunday                                                    $200.00
On-sale wine                                                      $700.00
Consumption and display                                           $200.00
Consumption and display          per day                           $25.00
temporary
Miscellaneous licenses                                             
Adult use business                                                $500.00
Adult Use Manager                                                 $50.00
Dog/cat                          $2 first month                    $8.00
Zoning                                                             
Zoning permit                                                     $50.00
Plat                             plus professional fees            $100.00
Variance                         plus professional fees            $100.00
CUP                              plus professional fees            $100.00
Re-zone                          plus professional fees            $100.00
After-the-fact permit            in addition to permit             $100.00
Community center rental                                            
Resident                                                          $75.00
Non-resident                                                      $100.00
Non-profit meeting/community                                      $0.00
band concerts
Non-profit fundraiser            or Fire hall with Council and     $50.00
                                 fire approval
Band concert nights June and                                      $0.00
July
Bathroom rental only                                              $40.00
Community group activity         Senior or sewing group and the    $15.00
                                 like
Fire and ambulance fees and                                        
charges
Fire calls                       plus foam and the like            $1,000.00
Ambulance assists by Fire        No use of equipment               $250.00
Department
Ambulance assists by Fire        Use of equipment and/or water     $500.00
Department
Ambulance run                    plus oxygen, miles, etc.           
                                                                   $800.00
Intercepts                       plus miles                        $1,400.00
Ambulance no load no transfer    with documentation                $325.00
Per mile rate                                                     $15.00
Miscellaneous fees and charges                                     
Housing RLF application                                           $100.00
Document fee (copying)           plus postage                      $0.25
Document fee (assessment search)                                  $30.00
Returned check (NSF)                                              $30.00
Current services charge          per hour, calculated by 1/4 hour, $100.00
(operator without equipment)     1 hour minimum plus material
Current services charge          per hour, calculated by 1/4 hour, $120.00
(operator with mower)            one hour minimum
Current services charge          per hour, calculated by 1/4 hour, $150.00
(operator with truck or loader)  one hour minimum
Mileage                          per mile                          Federal rate
Application of payment order                                       
Garbage                                                           1
Recycling                                                         2
Annual clean up                                                   3
Late fee                                                          4
NSF                                                               5
Reconnect fee                                                     6
Water                                                             7
Sewer                                                             8
 
(Ord. 118, passed 2-8-2016; Ord. 125, passed 2-12-2018; Ord. 137, passed 12-13-
2021; Ord. 138, passed 3-3-2022; Ord. 142, passed 2-13-2023; Ord. 146, passed
3-11-2024)
CHAPTER 34: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Generally
   
34.02   Appointment
   
34.03   Duties of Fire Marshal
   
34.04   Duties of Fire Chief
   
34.05   Records
   
34.06   Practice drills
   
34.07   Assistant Fire Chief
   
34.08   Senior firefighter
   
34.09   Firefighters
   
34.10   Loss of membership
   
34.11   Compensation
   
34.12   Present members
   
34.13   Relief association
   
34.14   Interference with Fire Department
   
34.15   Dispatch of Firefighters
Billing for Fire Calls
   
34.30   Purposes and intent
   
34.31   Definitions
   
34.32   Parties affected
   
34.33   Yearly rate adjustment
   
34.34   Standard fire/rescue calls
   
34.35   Supplies cost
   
34.36   Hazardous material
   
34.37   Ambulance charge
   
34.38   Mutual aid calls
   
34.39   Accident calls
   
34.40   False alarms/carbon monoxide calls
   
34.41   Non-emergency activity
   
34.42   Severe weather watch
   
34.43   Other entity charges
   
34.44   Billing and collection
   
34.45   Application of collections to budget
   
34.46   Missing person searches
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department Auxiliary, see
Chapter 32
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 GENERALLY.
   There is hereby continued in this city a Volunteer Fire Department
consisting of a Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chief, Fire Marshal and not fewer
than ten firefighters.
§ 34.02 APPOINTMENT.
   The Fire Chief, First Assistant Fire Chief, Second Assistant Fire Chief,
Fire Marshal and firefighters shall be appointed by the City Council. In making
such appointments, the City Council shall take into consideration
recommendations of the members of the Fire Department. Each officer and every
other member of the Fire Department, except a probationary firefighter, shall
serve during good behavior and may be removed by the City Council only for
cause after a public hearing.
§ 34.03 DUTIES OF FIRE MARSHAL.
   The office of the Fire Marshal may be held by the Fire Chief or by the
Assistant Fire Chief, if the City Council by resolution approves. The Fire
Marshal shall be charged with the enforcement of all ordinances aimed at fire
prevention. He or she shall have full authority to inspect all premises and to
cause the removal or abatement of all fire hazards.
§ 34.04 DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall have control of all the firefighting apparatus and
shall be solely responsible for its care and condition. He shall make a semi-
annual report to the City Council at its meetings in March and September, on
the condition of the equipment and needs of the Fire Department. He or she may
submit additional reports and recommendations at any meeting of the Council,
and he or she shall report each suspension by him or her of a member of the
Fire Department at the first meeting of the City Council following such
suspension. He or she shall be responsible for the proper training and
discipline of the members of the Fire Department and may suspend any member for
refusal or neglect to obey orders pending final action by the City Council on
his or her discharge or retention.
§ 34.05 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep in convenient form a complete record of all fires.
Such a record shall include the time of the alarm, location of the fire, cause
of fire (if known), type of building, name of owner or tenant, purpose for
which occupied, value of building, and value of contents, members of the Fire
Department responding to the alarm, and such other information as he or she may
deem advisable or as may be required, from time to time, by the City Council or
state insurance department.
§ 34.06 PRACTICE DRILLS.
   The Fire Chief shall, when the weather permits, hold a monthly practice
drill of at least one hour’s duration for the Fire Department and shall give or
arrange for instruction to the firefighters in approved methods of fire
fighting and fire prevention.
§ 34.07 ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF.
   In the absence or disability of the Fire Chief, the Assistant Fire Chief
shall perform all the functions and exercise all of the authority of the Fire
Chief.
§ 34.08 SENIOR FIREFIGHTER.
   In the absence or disability of both the Fire Chief and the Assistant Fire
Chief, the firefighter with the most seniority at the fire call shall perform
all the functions and exercise all of the authority of the Fire Chief.
§ 34.09 FIREFIGHTERS.
   The Assistant Fire Chief and firefighters shall be able-bodied not less than
18 years of age. They shall become members of the Fire Department only after a
one year probationary period. The Council may require that each candidate,
before he or she may become a probationary firefighter, must satisfy certain
minimum qualifications which may be specified by the City Council; and that the
candidate must pass satisfactorily a physical examination.
§ 34.10 LOSS OF MEMBERSHIP.
   Absence of any firefighter from three consecutive drills or calls unless
excused by the Fire Chief shall be cause for removal from the Fire Department.
§ 34.11 COMPENSATION.
   The member of officers of the Fire Department shall receive such
compensation as deemed appropriate by the City Council from time to time.
§ 34.12 PRESENT MEMBERS.
   No person who is a member of the Fire Department at the time of the adoption
of this chapter shall be required to serve a probationary period before
becoming a firefighter.
§ 34.13 RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
   The members and officers of the Fire Department may organize themselves into
a fireman’s relief association in accordance with law.
§ 34.14 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   No person shall give or make, or cause to be given or made, a fire alarm
without probable cause, or neglect or refuse to obey any reasonable order of
the Fire Chief or a fire or interfere with the Fire Department in the discharge
of its duty.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.15 DISPATCH OF FIREFIGHTERS.
   Either the Fire Chief or the 9-1-1 dispatcher for the county may dispatch
the firefighters.
BILLING FOR FIRE CALLS
§ 34.30 PURPOSES AND INTENT.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of authorizing the city to charge
for fire service as authorized by M.S. §§ 366.011, 366.012 and 415.01, as they
may be amended from time to time.
§ 34.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm from a smoke detector, sprinkler system, carbon
monoxide detector that is activated, but there is no presence of any danger.
   FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACT. A contract between the city and a township or
other city for the city to provide fire service.
   FIRE SERVICE. Any deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment to
extinguish a fire or perform any preventative measure in an effort to protect
equipment, life, or property in an area threatened by fire. It also includes
the deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment to provide fire
suppression, rescue, extrication, and any other services related to fire and
rescue as may occasionally occur.
   FIRE SERVICE CHARGE. The charge imposed by the city for receiving fire
service.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed and originally
manufactured to operate primarily upon public roads and highways, and not
operated exclusively upon railroad tracks. It includes semi-trailers,
snowmobiles and ATVs.
   MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and a town or other city
for the city’s Fire Department to provide assistance to the fire department of
a town or other city.
§ 34.32 PARTIES AFFECTED.
   The following parties shall be affected:
   (A)   Owners of property, including landlord of rental property within the
city or township who receive fire service;
   (B)   Anyone who receives fire service as a result of a motor vehicle
accident or fire within the city or township; or
   (C)   Owners of property in townships or cities to which the city provides
fire service pursuant to a fire protection contract.
§ 34.33 YEARLY RATE ADJUSTMENT.
   The City Council, with the advice and recommendation of the Fire Department,
shall review and set the Fire Department emergency call charges each calendar
year, at the annual City Council meeting in January for that year. If the City
Council takes no action to change the fees set out in this chapter, said fees
shall remain the same.
§ 34.34 STANDARD FIRE/RESCUE CALLS.
   The standard fire/rescue call charge will be as set in the city fee schedule
from year to year. The city reserves the right to bill beyond the standard
fire/rescue call charge for its costs and expenses incurred in responding to
calls that last for more than two hours. The call time shall be calculated from
the time the first Fire Department vehicle departs from the fire station to the
time the last Fire Department vehicle is back in service. If the Fire
Department is cancelled in route, there will be no charge for the call.
§ 34.35 SUPPLIES COST.
   In addition to the basic fire call charge, the Fire Department shall be
reimbursed its supply replacement cost for every five gallons of foam used,
plus reimbursement for the Fire Department cost of any other supplies or
materials expended in fighting the fire.
§ 34.36 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL.
   If it is determined any hazardous material is present at the site of a fire
call, which will require special procedures and handling, an additional charge,
above and beyond the standard fire call charge and as set in the city fee
schedule, will be applied to the call, regardless of the time spent on the
call. This additional charge will depend on the total time, fire staff and
supplies devoted to the call because of the presence of said hazardous
materials.
§ 34.37 AMBULANCE CHARGE.
   An ambulance will routinely be requested at the site of any structure fire
for firefighter protection. The ambulance call will be separately billed by the
ambulance service, which said charge shall be separate and in addition to any
Fire Department charges. Any call where the Fire Department is paged to assist
the ambulance or secure a helicopter landing site will be billed at an hourly
rate set forth in the city fee schedule after the first hour.
§ 34.38 MUTUAL AID CALLS.
   Costs shall be billed per the mutual aid agreement.
§ 34.39 ACCIDENT CALLS.
   The Lafayette Fire Department charge for responding to accidents not related
to fires, to include but not limited to motor vehicle accidents, are
established as follows:
   (A)   For any accident call dispatched by the Sheriff’s office or other law
enforcement agency or ambulance service, as a result of which the Fire
Department is needed for precautionary measures, each party involved in the
accident will be billed at a rate as set in the city fee schedule. The city
reserves the right to bill beyond the standard charge for its costs and
expenses incurred in responding to calls that last for more than one hour.
   (B)   If the accident involves motor vehicles, the above stated charges
shall be applied to each vehicle operator, but not to vehicle passengers.
   (C)   If the accident involves motor vehicles, and one or more of the
vehicles was a parked and stationary vehicle, the parked and stationary vehicle
owner or operator shall be not be charged a service call. Only the vehicle or
vehicles in motion at the time of the accident shall be charged the service
call charge, unless that parked vehicle is determined to be at fault by the law
enforcement officer on scene.
§ 34.40 FALSE ALARMS/CARBON MONOXIDE CALLS.
   (A)   Any person, defined as any individual, or any business entity or
corporation or any agents or employees thereof, will not be billed for the
first two false alarm responses during a 12-month period, if said false alarms
are given in the reasonable and good faith belief that an emergency does exist.
A third false alarm in a 12-month period from the same person, including the
same business entity or corporation or any agents or employees thereof, shall
incur a flat charge of $500 for the call, regardless of whether the said third
false alarm is in good faith or not. Any person, to include any business entity
or corporation or any agents or employees thereof, who makes a false alarm in
bad faith, meaning they knew or should have known that the alarm was false,
shall be charged a flat call charge of $500 in all cases.
   (B)   In regards to carbon monoxide calls, the Fire Department will bill the
call at a rate set in the city fee schedule if gas or another problem is found
on scene. There will not be a charge that turns out to be a call related to a
faulty detector unless it is the third such detector related call within a 12-
month period. If it is the third such call within a 12-month period, it will be
billed as a false alarm.
   (C)   During carbon monoxide calls involving a faulty detector, the resident
will be given a working detector. Residents will be charged for the cost of the
detector if they choose to keep it.
§ 34.41 NON-EMERGENCY ACTIVITY.
   The City Council, at the recommendation of the Fire Department, shall have
the discretion to charge an appropriate fee to the property owner for Fire
Department assistance provided in non-emergency situations. This may include,
but is not limited to, disaster site cleanup, protective sandbagging during
flood alerts, filling pools and hosing down construction or demolition sites to
avoid excessive dust or air pollution.
§ 34.42 SEVERE WEATHER WATCH.
   Fire Department personnel shall conduct a severe weather watch as
appropriate at no charge to the community or to any individual property owners.
§ 34.43 OTHER ENTITY CHARGES.
   If the Fire Department deems it appropriate, it may call in assistance from
other government agencies or private entities, to provide personnel, expertise
or equipment the Fire Department determines in its own discretion is needed to
respond adequately to an emergency. The City Council, at the recommendation of
the Fire Department, shall have the right to pass on to the emergency call
property owner any fees or costs charged by such other government agency or
private entity for their assistance.
§ 34.44 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Parties requesting and receiving fire services may be billed directly
by the city. Additionally, if the party receiving fire services did not request
services but a fire or other situation exists, which at the discretion of the
Fire Department personnel in charge requires fire service, the party will be
charged and billed. All parties will be billed whether or not the fire service
is covered by insurance. Any billable amount of the fire charge not covered by
a party’s insurance remains a debt of the party or property owner receiving the
fire service. If the party receiving the fire service does not initiate the
contact for service but a fire or other situation exists which at the
discretion of the Fire Department personnel in charge requires fire services
and qualifies as a fire call, that party will be charged for a fire call.
   (B)   Parties billed for fire service will have 90 days to pay. If the fire
service charge is not paid by that time, it will be considered delinquent and
the city will send a notice of delinquency.
   (C)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 90 days after this
notice of delinquency is sent, the city will use all practical and reasonable
legal means to collect the fire service charge. The party receiving fire
service shall be liable for all collection costs incurred by the city
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
   (D)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 90 days after the notice
of delinquency is sent, the City Council by formal resolution, after due
consideration, may also, on or before October 15 of each year, certify the
unpaid fire service charge to the County Auditor in which the recipient of the
services owns real property for collection with property taxes. The County
Auditor is responsible for remitting to the city all charges collected on
behalf of the city. The city must give the property owner notice of its intent
to certify the unpaid fire service charge by September 15.
   (E)   False alarms will be billed as specified in §
34.40.
§ 34.45 APPLICATION OF COLLECTIONS TO BUDGET.
   All collected fire charges will be city funds and used to offset the
expenses of the Fire Department in providing fire services.
§ 34.46 MISSING PERSON SEARCHES.
   There will be no charge for Fire Department participation in attempts to
locate or search for persons reported as missing.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   COLLECTION OF UTILITY CHARGES
      
51.   REFUSE AND RECYCLABLES
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: COLLECTION OF UTILITY CHARGES
Section
   
50.01   Establishment, transfer and termination of utilities accounts
   
50.02   Billing and collection of accounts
   
50.03   Correction of customer overcharges and undercharges
   
50.04   Shut-off of utility services
   
50.05   Procedures for appeals of proposed utility shut-offs
   
50.06   Utility liens
§ 50.01 ESTABLISHMENT, TRANSFER AND TERMINATION OF UTILITIES ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Application. Each customer requesting utilities services shall submit
an application for service on forms provided by the City Clerk’s office. Each
application must be signed by the customer or the customer’s authorized agent.
The application shall contain the personal and financial information as is
customarily required for the extension of credit, as well as other information
appropriate to the establishment or transfer of the utilities account. The City
Clerk’s office may deny an application or require a creditworthy co-applicant
if the information provided on the application does not support a finding of
the customer’s creditworthiness. If the customer is requesting utilities
services for premises in which utilities are not already connected, the
application must be submitted and approved prior to the connection of
utilities. If the customer is requesting transfer of an existing account for
premises in which utilities services are already connected, the application
must be submitted and approved no later than ten days after the request for the
transfer of the account to the customer’s name.
   (B)   Notification. The City Clerk’s office shall notify the customer of the
application requirement when the request for establishment or transfer of an
account is made. If the request is made by someone other than the customer
whose name is on the account, the City Clerk’s office shall attempt to contact
the customer by telephone; if unable to make contact by telephone, that office
shall promptly send written notice to the customer of the application
requirement. This notice shall be sent to the address to be served by the
utilities services, unless the City Clerk’s office has actual knowledge of a
different address of the customer. The notice shall inform the customer that
failure to submit an approvable application within ten days of the date of the
account transfer, or within ten days of the date of notification under this
section, whichever is later, shall be deemed a violation of this section and
shall be subject to the enforcement provisions of this chapter, including
termination of utilities services.
   (C)   Co-applicants. If more than one person signs the application for
utilities services, the co-applicants shall designate one applicant’s name to
appear on utility bills, but each co-applicant shall be considered the
customer, and each shall be jointly and severally liable for all utilities
charges on the account.
   (D)   Request for termination. Request for termination of a customer’s
account when a customer is vacating premises shall be made on forms provided by
the City Clerk’s office. Each termination request form must be signed by the
customer or the customer’s authorized agent. The termination request form shall
include the date of termination, the customer’s forwarding address for the
final bill, the name into which the account is to be transferred and other
information as may be appropriate.
   (E)   Property not occupied by owner.
      (1)   Utilities services provided to rental, contract for deed or other
non-owner occupied premises shall be the responsibility of the property owner,
and the property owner shall be considered the customer, unless and until the
occupant requests a transfer of the utilities account into the occupant’s name
and submits the application required by this section. Notwithstanding the fact
that a utilities account is in the name of a non-owner occupant, the city may
impose liens against the property for unpaid utility bills to the extent
provided and permitted by law.
      (2)   The city will not be responsible for enforcing agreements between
owners and occupants regarding responsibility for payment of utilities charges.
If an account has been in the name of a non-owner occupant, and that customer
requests termination of the account in accordance with this regulation, the
account shall be transferred into the name of the property owner unless and
until another occupant applies for services. If the city becomes aware that the
non-owner has vacated the premises (for example, by return of a utility bill by
the post office indicating that the occupant has moved with no forwarding
address), and no request for termination or transfer of the account has been
received, the account shall likewise be transferred into the name of the
property owner. Upon the transfer of an account to the property owner, the City
Clerk’s office shall notify the owner by first class mailing to the owner’s
last-known address that the account has been transferred into the owner’s name,
that the owner will be responsible for all utility charges incurred after the
date of transfer, and that a lien may be imposed against the property for any
unpaid balance.
   (F)   Multiple-occupant premises. If multiple units within the premises are
served by one meter for utility service, all of the utility charges related to
that service will be billed to one customer. If the premises includes any
residential property, the customer billed will be the property owner. If the
premises does not include any residential property, the customer can be either
the property owner or one occupant and the customer is responsible for the
collection of payment from the occupants. The city will not be responsible for
allocating charges among multiple occupants unless separate meters are
installed for each unit.
   (G)   Voluntary shut-offs. All requests for shut-offs of utility services
(other than those initiated by the city by reason of delinquent accounts,
emergency situations or other authorized reasons) shall be made by the property
owner or the owner’s authorized agent on forms provided by the City Clerk’s
office. An occupant who is not the property owner shall not be considered an
authorized agent of the owner unless written confirmation of the authority is
provided by the owner. The owner’s request for voluntary shut-off must contain
a statement that the premises will not be occupied at the date of the requested
shut-off.
   (H)   Minimum fixed service rate. The property owner is liable for paying a
minimum fixed service rate, as established from time to time by the City
Council, regardless of whether or not the owner uses the municipal water and/or
wastewater systems as connected.
(Ord. 94, passed 2-9-2004; Ord. 126, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 50.02 BILLING AND COLLECTION OF ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Billings, due date and delinquent accounts. All utility accounts shall
be billed monthly, and each billing statement shall designate a due date of the
end of the month. An account which is not paid as of the close of business on
the due date shall be considered delinquent, and a penalty shall be added to,
and become a part of, the delinquent account, at the rate specified by the
current fee schedule of the City Council.
   (B)   Definition of payment on an account. For purposes of this regulation,
a utility account shall be considered paid as of the close of business on the
due date if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Payment is actually received by the City Clerk’s office on or
before the close of business on the 25th of the month; or
      (2)   Payment is received by the City Clerk’s office at its “drop box” at
City Hall by the beginning of the next business day following the due date.
   (C)   Application of payments to customer accounts. All customer payments
for utilities services shall be applied in the order of priority as set by the
City Council from time to time.
(Ord. 94, passed 2-9-2004; Ord. 110, passed 2-9-2015; Ord. 121, passed 8-8-
2016)
§ 50.03 CORRECTION OF CUSTOMER OVERCHARGES AND UNDERCHARGES.
   (A)   Adjustments and time limitation. When a determination is made that a
customer’s utility account has been overcharged or undercharged for utility
services (by reason of inaccurate metering, clerical errors or other
unintentional causes), the error shall be remedied as promptly as possible, and
an adjustment shall be made for the dollar amount of the overcharge or
undercharge for the time period that the erroneous charges occurred, not to
exceed one year prior to the date that the city became aware of the error for
undercharges, and three years prior to the date that the city became aware of
the error for overcharges.
   (B)   Refund for overcharge. When a customer has been overcharged, the
overpaid amount shall be refunded or applied as a credit to the customer by the
city within 60 days of the calculation of the amount of overcharge.
   (C)   Collection of undercharge. When a customer has been undercharged, the
customer shall be promptly notified of the cause and amount of the adjustment,
and the undercharged amount shall be added to the customer’s monthly utility
bills (whether or not those bills are for the same property on which the
undercharge occurred); at the discretion of the City Clerk, the undercharged
amount may be billed and paid in equal monthly installments, without interest,
up to a maximum period of six months, beginning with the next billing after the
notification. In the event that the customer has discontinued utility services
from the city, or does so before full payment of the undercharged amount, the
billing shall be separate from the routine utility billing, but shall provide
for the same payment terms.
   (D)   Exceptions. The previous sections shall not apply to situations in
which deliberate or intentional acts of the customer (or anyone acting on
behalf of or for the benefit of the customer) have resulted in an undercharge
to the customer for utility services, including, but not limited to, meter-
tampering or other interference with accurate metering. In those cases, the
city reserves all legal rights to collect the full amount of the unpaid
utilities without regard to the time limitation and installment payment
provision set forth above.
(Ord. 94, passed 2-9-2004)
§ 50.04 SHUT-OFF OF UTILITY SERVICES.
   (A)   Procedure for shut-off of utility services. Except as otherwise
provided by M.S. § 216B.097, as it may be amended from time to time, and any
other state or federal law of regulation controlling shut- off procedures for
municipal utilities, the following procedures shall apply.
      (1)   All municipal utilities on a customer account may be shut off or
discontinued when payment for any utilities is not made as and when required,
or when a utility customer violates rule or regulation applicable to such
utility service. Partial payment of a delinquent utility account does not
prevent utility services from being shut-off, except as approved pursuant to §
50.05.
      (2)   When a proposed shut-off is the result of non-payment of a utility
account:
         (a)   A written notice shall be mailed to the customer one day after
the utility account becomes delinquent. In the event that the property served
by the utilities is occupied by someone other than the owner thereof, notices
shall be sent to both the owner and the occupant of the property. The notice
shall state the total amount due and date by which the account must be paid to
avoid shut-off (one month after due date of bill). The notice shall also notify
the customer of the procedure for administrative appeal of the proposed shut-
off;
         (b)   If the account remains unpaid two weeks after the mailing of the
first notice, without application for appeal under §
50.05, a second notice shall be mailed, containing the same information as the
first notice, except that the second notice shall not contain information on
appeal procedures; and
         (c)   If the account remains unpaid as of the close of business on the
date designated in the notices, the utilities shall be shut off, unless the
customer has filed a timely appeal which is pending or which has resulted in a
ruling in favor of the customer. Shut-offs for non-payment shall take place
only during business hours on Mondays through Thursdays. Notices required by
this regulation shall be sent by first class mail to the last-known address of
each recipient.
   (B)   Payment prior to shut-off. If a customer makes payment of the
delinquent amounts after the date designated in the notice, but before the
utilities have actually been shut off, the customer shall pay a processing fee
as set forth in the city’s current fee schedule to defray the administration
costs of canceling the shut-off order. To avoid shut-off, this fee must be paid
at the same time that the delinquent amounts are paid.
   (C)   Reconnection. After a shut-off has occurred in accordance with this
regulation, the customer may request reconnection of utility services by making
payment at the City Clerk’s office of all delinquent amounts owed by the
customer on all utility accounts (including late-payment penalties) and a
reconnection fee for each utility to be reconnected. The reconnection fee shall
be as set forth in the city’s current fee schedule. The customer shall also
complete an application for utility services if required by the City Clerk’s
office. The utility services shall be reconnected as soon as practicable after
receipt of such payment and application.
(Ord. 94, passed 2-9-2004)
§ 50.05 PROCEDURES FOR APPEALS OF PROPOSED UTILITY SHUT-OFFS.
   (A)   Notice of appeal. A utilities customer who disputes the amount of a
utility bill, or who is unable to pay all or part of the bill, may appeal the
proposed shut-off of utilities to the City Council by delivering a written
notice of appeal to the City Clerk no later than the close of business on the
fifth calendar day after the date of the first written notice sent to the
customer pursuant to §
50.04(A); the notice of appeal may be made on a form provided by the City Clerk
and in any event shall be dated and signed by the customer or authorized agent,
and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number (during business hours) of customer;
      (2)   Utility account number;
      (3)   Date of bill and date of proposed shut-off;
      (4)   Amount of bill;
      (5)   If amount of bill is in dispute, reasons for customer’s belief that
bill is in error, and proposed adjustment; and
      (6)   If customer is unable to pay part or all of bill by shut-off date,
reasons for inability to pay and proposed payment arrangements.
   (B)   Hearing on appeal. Upon the receipt of a notice of appeal, the City
Clerk shall schedule a hearing before the City Council. The hearing shall be
scheduled as soon as practicable, and no later than the next regular City
Council meeting after the date of the notice of appeal. The customer’s
utilities shall not be shut off pending the appeal hearing. The customer shall
be promptly notified of the date, time and place of the hearing by telephone,
first class mail, or any other reasonable means. At the hearing, the customer
may present any testimony and evidence relevant to the appeal, and the members
of the City Council may question the customer or other persons about any matter
relevant to the appeal. The City Council shall inform the customer of its
decision prior to the conclusion of the hearing. If requested by the customer,
the City Council shall provide a written summary of its findings and decision
within a reasonable time period. The City Council shall in any event maintain
such a summary for its own records.
   (C)   Decision of City Council. The City Council may make any of the
following decisions, based on the facts and circumstances of the case:
      (1)   That the appeal is without merit and that the customer’s utilities
will be shut off if full payment of the utility bill is not made within the
time period specified by the City Council, which shall not be less than 48
hours after the conclusion of the hearing;
      (2)   In cases involving a dispute in the amount of the bill, that an
adjustment will be made to the bill, and that the customer’s utility services
will be continued unless the customer fails to pay the corrected amount of the
bill within the time period specified by the City Council, which shall not be
less than 48 hours after the conclusion of the hearing; and
      (3)   In cases involving the customer’s inability to pay, that payment
shall be deferred to a specified date or that a specific payment schedule shall
be followed, and that the customer’s utility service shall be continued unless
the customer fails to make payment in accordance with the specified
arrangements; and that, in the event of such failure, the customer’s utilities
may be shut off upon 48 hours written notice to the customer, such notice to be
sent by first class mail and the 48-hour notice period to begin at noon on the
business day following the mailing of the notice.
   (D)   Guidelines for decision on appeal. In appeals based on the customer’s
inability to pay a utility bill, the City Council, shall consider the following
criteria to determine whether it is appropriate to allow deferred payment as an
alternative to shutting off the customer’s utility sendee:
      (1)   The customer’s history of payment of utility bills;
      (2)   The nature and severity of the financial difficulties of the
customer;
      (3)   The assets of the customer available for payment of the utility
bill;
      (4)   The likelihood of ability to make deferred payment(s) as scheduled;
and
      (5)   The efforts made by the customer to obtain public assistance,
energy assistance or other available resources for payment.
   (E)   Forgiveness of utility bills. Except for cases in which it is
determined that an error has been made in the customer’s utility bill, the City
Clerk and the City Council shall have no authority to permanently forgive any
portion of the customer’s utility bill.
(Ord. 94, passed 2-9-2004)
§ 50.06 UTILITY LIENS.
   (A)   Authority. The City Clerk shall have the authorization to file utility
liens for unpaid utility charges in accordance with the provisions of this
section, and in compliance with all statutes of the state relating to utility
liens and collections.
   (B)   Procedure. Upon order of the City Council:
      (1)   The City Clerk shall prepare a notice of utility lien which shall
state: the legal description and property address of the premises served by the
utility service; the name of the person or firm to whom such utility services
are supplied; the record owner of the property to which the utility services
were provided; the amount of unpaid utility charges, including penalties, for
each type of utility service; and the period during which such charges were
incurred;
      (2)   The City Clerk shall cause the notice of utility lien to be filed
for record with the office of the County Recorder;
      (3)   The City Clerk shall cause a copy of the notice of utility lien to
be certified to the County Auditor on or before November 30 of each year for
each parcel of property upon which there remain unpaid utility charges; and
      (4)   The City Clerk shall cause a copy of the notice of utility lien to
be mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the person or firm to
whom such utility services are supplied and to the record owner of the property
to which the utility services were provided if the owner is not the same as the
person or firm to whom such utility services are supplied.
   (C)   Collection of unpaid charges. A lien for utility charges imposed
pursuant to this section shall be payable in a single installment, or by up to
ten equal annual installments as the City Council may describe, and shall
accrue interest from and after the date of filing of such notice of utility
lien with the County Recorder as such rate as is set from time to time by the
City Council. With these exceptions, the provisions of M.S. §§ 429.061, 429.071
and 429.081, as they may be amended from time to time, for the imposition and
collection of special assessments for local improvements shall apply to the
collection of liens for utility charges.
   (D)   Emergency authority. In the event that the City Clerk becomes aware of
a pending sale of property or other circumstances which make prior approval
impracticable, the City Clerk may proceed to file a lien for delinquent
utilities without prior approval of the City Council, but shall then notify the
City Council at its next regular meeting that such a lien has been filed.
   (E)   Assessment searches. When a request is received by the City Clerk for
an assessment search on a property, the information provided by the City Clerk
shall include both any existing utility lien(s) and any anticipated utility
lien(s), so that the prospective buyer or mortgagee is notified of the pending
lien(s) prior to transfer of title to the property.
(Ord. 94, passed 2-9-2004)
CHAPTER 51: REFUSE AND RECYCLABLES
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Service established
   
51.03   Rules and regulations
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Includes every accumulation of animal, vegetable or other matter
that attends the preparation, consumption, display, dealing in or storage of
meat, fish, fowl, birds and the like, including the cans, containers or
wrappers wasted along with such materials, and all other wastes resulting from
the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   HOUSEHOLD REFUSE. Includes such items as garbage, swill, sweepings,
cleanings, trash litter, solid wastes, combustible trash, including, but not
limited to, boxes, barrels, wood, furniture, bedding, noncombustible trash,
including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans, metal furniture, dirt, small
quantities of rock and concrete, glass, crockery and other mineral wastes;
provided, refuse shall not include earth and wastes from building operations,
nor shall it include wastes from multiple-dwelling residences, industrial
processes and manufacturing operations.
   NON-HOUSEHOLD REFUSE. Includes such items as garbage, swill, sweepings,
cleanings, trash litter, solid wastes, combustible trash, including, but not
limited to, boxes, barrels, wood, furniture, bedding, noncombustible trash,
including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans, metal furniture, dirt, small
quantities of rock and concrete, glass, crockery and other mineral wastes
produced by multiple-dwelling residences, industrial and commercial processes,
and manufacturing operations; provided, refuse shall not include earth and
wastes from building operations.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Materials that are separated from household refuse for
the purpose of recycling, including paper, glass, plastics and metals.
   REFUSE. Garbage, household refuse, non-household refuse and yard debris.
   YARD DEBRIS. Includes such items as grass clippings and leaves.
(Ord. 111, passed 2-9-2015)
§ 51.02 SERVICE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a city collection service of all household
refuse and recyclable materials within the city. Collection and disposal of
household refuse recyclable materials shall be by the city collection service
only.
   (B)   The City Council shall grant by contract in accordance with law the
collection service for all household refuse originating within the city. The
Council shall see that when let the contract is executed in accordance with its
terms and this chapter. The Council shall execute the contract or its renewal
by motion during regular Council meetings.
   (C)   The contract shall contain provisions for specific service rates and
the collection thereof.
   (D)   It shall be a condition of the contract that the applicant file with
the Clerk a current policy of public liability insurance with such terms and
limits as the Council may establish.
   (E)   No person shall collect household refuse within the city, except a
person holding a contract with the city to do so. No person shall permit refuse
to be picked up from such premises except by such contractor.
   (F)   Billing and collecting of utility fees associated with the services
provided under this chapter will be handled under the same terms and procedures
as outlined in Chapter 50.
(Ord. 111, passed 2-9-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Every person shall, in a sanitary manner, dispose of refuse that may
accumulate upon property owned or occupied by them. Refuse shall be collected
or otherwise lawfully disposed of.
   (B)   All refuse accumulated between collections shall be stored in
appropriate water-tight containers, impervious to rodents, insects and vermin.
   (C)   Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse on any premises is a public
nuisance and prohibited.
   (D)   No person shall place any refuse in any street, alley or public place
or upon private property except in proper containers for collection. No person
shall throw or deposit refuse in any stream or other body of water.
   (E)   No person shall deposit anywhere within the city any refuse in such
manner that it may be carried or deposited by the elements upon any public or
private premises within the city.
   (F)   No refuse shall be buried in the city except that yard debris may be
composted in a sanitary manner.
   (G)   No refuse, including yard debris, shall be burned except as allowed
under M.S. Chapter 88, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 111, passed 2-9-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Purpose
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Water Department defined
   
52.04   Duties of the Superintendent
   
52.05   Rules
   
52.06   Application
   
52.07   Rates, fees and billing
   
52.08   Billing
   
52.09   Shut-off for non-payment of utility bill
   
52.10   Plumbing rules
   
52.11   Responsibility of owners
   
52.12   Hydrant use
   
52.13   City responsibility
   
52.14   Private wells
§ 52.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Water Department, which shall be under
the supervision of the City Council. The Department shall be responsible for
the management, maintenance and operation of the water system of the city.
   (B)   A Superintendent shall be hired by the City Council to carry out the
duties of the Water Department.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall work with the Superintendent to assure proper
billing, and deposits are collected as prescribed by the Department.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOMESTIC USE. Water used for drinking or potable water, non-potable water or
irrigation purposes, but shall not include water from wells drilled for such
purposes as dewatering, groundwater monitoring, heating or cooling, elevator
borings or environmental bore holes.
   IRRIGATE. To supply (land) with water by artificial means, as by diverting
streams, flooding or spraying; to moisten; wet.
   PRIVATE WELLS FOR DOMESTIC USE. Any well not owned by the city water utility
which is drilled for potable water, non-potable water or irrigation purposes
including sand point or drive point wells. PRIVATE WELLS FOR DOMESTIC USE shall
not include wells drilled for such purposes as dewatering, groundwater
monitoring, heating or cooling, elevator borings or environmental bore holes.
   SAND POINT OR DRIVE POINT WELL. A shallow well that is a one and one-quarter
to two-inch steel casing constructed by driving or pounding the casing down
into the ground until an aquifer is encountered.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 52.03 WATER DEPARTMENT DEFINED.
   The Water Department controls all well, pumps and associated piping to
deliver water to the customer. This shall include hydrants, service pipes,
valves, meters and customer piping; also, the structures and buildings housing
the Water Department equipment.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 52.04 DUTIES OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   Operate the Department in accordance with the State Health Department
regulations;
   (B)   Maintain reports necessary to fulfill the information required by the
State Health Department and the City Council. Assure necessary reports are sent
in a properly and timely manner;
   (C)   Keep all equipment of the Water Department in proper repair to assure
constant and trouble free service to the customer;
   (D)   Read water meters as needed and provide information to the City Clerk
for proper billing;
   (E)   Work with the City Clerk for water service to customers as changes
become necessary; and
   (F)   Notify the City Council of any irregularities or ordinance violations.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 52.05 RULES.
   (A)   All provisions of this chapter, where the term customer is used, shall
be construed as the owner of the premises served. The person desiring the use
of city water shall notify the City Clerk in writing of changes or
cancellation.
   (B)   This contract made with the customer shall provide that any
delinquencies in the payment of water bills on the premises shall be a lien and
charges against the premises so serviced regardless of whether the same be
homestead or not. The lien in the case of delinquency, shall be reported to the
County Auditor by the City Clerk at the same time and in the same manner as
special assessment on real estate and shall be collected in the same manner as
taxes against real estate provided, however; that nothing herein shall change
the provisions of this chapter with reference to shutting off water for
nonpayment of charges.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 52.06 APPLICATION.
   (A)   In addition to §
52.05, this application will include intended use and estimated volume thereof
for purposes of regulating water consumption. A copy of this chapter and rate
structure will be provided upon request.
   (B)   No person except a plumber duly approved by the Water Department will
be permitted to tap into the city water supply and then under the supervision
of the Superintendent. Any fees will be due at this time.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.07 RATES, FEES AND BILLING.
   (A)   No water will be supplied to any customer without receipt of a meter
deposit as set by the City Council. This deposit is refundable upon termination
of contract with the city and after inspection assures all equipment left in
acceptable condition. Interest will be paid by the city on the deposit on an
annual basis at the interest rate as determined according to the procedures
outlined in M.S. § 325E.02, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   The City Council shall adopt by resolution a schedule of water rates,
fees and meter deposits. The resolution shall be published once in time
official newspaper of the city. The city may make an annual revision of the
schedule based upon annual reports together with a working budget to determine
any needs for change in this schedule.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2013; Ord. 114, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 52.08 BILLING.
   (A)   All bills for water service furnished and supplied by the city shall
be payable monthly, with payment due date at the discretion of the City
Council.
   (B)   The Clerk shall mail to each customer whose billing for the previous
month has not been paid, a notice which shall be deemed sufficient notice to
the customer.
   (C)   No exception shall be made to the procedure unless a hearing is
requested and Council grants relief.
   (D)   A finance charge will be assessed on delinquent amounts at the rate
specified by the current fee schedule of the City Council.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2013; Ord. 112, passed 2-9-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.09 SHUT-OFF FOR NON-PAYMENT OF UTILITY BILL.
   (A)   The city shall endeavor to collect delinquent utilities accounts
promptly. In any case where satisfactory arrangements for payment have not been
made, the city may, after the procedural requirements of division (B) below
have been complied with, order the appropriate city department to disconnect
the utility service to the delinquent customer.
      (1)   When water service to any premises has been discontinued, service
shall not be restored except upon the payment of all delinquent amounts, plus a
reconnection charge, and the meter deposit if it had been consumed for past
amount due.
      (2)   The city shall not be liable for any damage to persons or property
caused in whole or in part by the discontinuance of water service.
      (3)   Service that has been disconnected for any reason will not be
restored until the owner is present or access to the property is granted.
   (B)   Disconnection will be handled in the manner outlined in Chapter 50.
   (C)   A check that is returned as insufficient funds will be considered non-
payment and shut-off procedures will continue as such.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2013; Ord. 112, passed 2-9-2015)
§ 52.10 PLUMBING RULES.
   (A)   The corporation cock into the main water line shall be installed in
the top half of the pipe preferably at a 45-degree angle to avoid bringing
sediment in the main into the service line. The customer will be liable for any
damage or further repair due to the line tap.
   (B)   The service pipe from the main to the curb stop at the property line
will be installed at a depth to prevent freezing. Service line shall be of
material approved by the city and the state.
   (C)   The corporation cock or curb stop at or near the property line will be
set at a depth to prevent freezing and the box will be kept at an accessible
level at all times.
   (D)   The service line from the curb stop to the meter shall be installed at
a depth to prevent freezing and preferably copper. Joints on this line will be
as few as possible, and not more than one joint shall be used for each 70 feet
of length. Each joint shall be left uncovered until inspected. The service pipe
in the house will not exceed 24 inches of exposed pipe.
   (E)   A shut off or stop cock with a waste valve of the size and strength
required for the service intended will be placed at the house end of the
service line. This valve will be positioned for meter installation.
   (F)   The bottom of the meter shall be between six and 12 inches
horizontally from the inside line on the basement wall unless a different
position is approved by the Water Department. A suitable bracket shall be
provided by the customer to support the meter in a proper position to prevent
noise and vibration.
   (G)   The household plumbing that piping serving the customer from the meter
shall be attached firmly enough so as to prevent any damage if meter repair is
necessary. The city will not be liable for any damage if this pipe is not so
secure. A valve should be placed on the house side of the meter to prevent
backflow during meter servicing.
   (H)   At no time will cross connections be allowed. This is the connection
of any private pump, well, cistern or other source of water to the same line
furnishing city water. When any such connection is found, the city shall notify
the owner to sever the connection and if this is not done immediately (within
eight hours), the city shall turn off the water supply. Before service is
restored, the city shall inspect the system to ascertain no cross connection
exists, the owner will pay the current reconnection charge and service will be
restored.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.11 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS.
   (A)   The city shall own the water line up to the designated curb line. In
the event that there is no curb on the property, the city shall own the water
line up to the edge of the dedicated street. All of the service line from the
meter to the designated curb line, or edge of dedicated street. And all valves,
boxes and parts thereof are owned by the customer and are to be maintained by
them. Only the meter is owned by the city and shall be so maintained. Any
damage through malicious mischief, neglect, freezing or whatever to destroy the
meter shall be the liability of the customer, whether it is an owner or the
renter of the property.
   (B)   The Superintendent or designated employee shall have free access at
all reasonable hours to any premises to ascertain the location or condition of
all water equipment. Any person desiring to discontinue the use of city water
shall notify the city in writing and the inspection and shut-off work must be
done by a duly authorized city representative. The city shall gave the right of
access on the home owner’s property in order to dig to the curb stop, and the
right of access on the home owner’s property for access to the curb stop.
   (C)   No more than one house or building shall be supplied from one service
connection, except by special permission of the Council. Whenever two or more
parties are supplied from one pipe connecting with a service main, each
building or part of the building separately supplied shall have a separate stop
box and a separate meter. No person shall permit city water to be used for any
purpose, except upon his or her own premises except when permission is first
obtained from the Water Department officials.
   (D)   When a customer complains that the bill for any past service period is
excessive, the city shall have the meter reread upon request. If the customer
remains dissatisfied, and he or she may, upon written request and a deposit of
$20, have the meter removed and tested. If the tests show an error in the
city’s favor exceeding 5% of the water consumed, the deposit shall be refunded,
an accurate meter shall be installed and the bill shall be adjusted
accordingly. The adjustment shall not extend back more than one service period
(one quarter) from the date of the written request.
   (E)   When time warrants and the city finds water rationing necessary to
protect city supply, and after sufficient notice has been given to this
rationing, a customer is found in violation, the Water Department will shut off
the water to that customer and will not be re-supplied until the customer has a
hearing with the City Council. Sufficient notice will be given as outlined in
the city’s Emergency Water Contingency Plan.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 52.12 HYDRANT USE.
   Hydrant use shall be restricted to the Water Department and Fire Department
personnel only. Any other use must be approved by the Water Superintendent.
Anyone wishing to obtain water from a hydrant for any purpose shall make
application through the City Clerk or Water Superintendent for such service.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 52.13 CITY RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The city reserves the right to restrict use to anyone for reasons it
feels exceeds the purpose of the Water Department.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to inspect any water service at any
reasonable hour for violations or just to ascertain the proper operation
thereof. If this inspection finds a violation of water use in any way or leaks
in the customer line and fails to repair or correct any violation upon
reasonable notice, the reconnection fee is paid. The city shall also, at its
discretion, be able to shut the water off immediately, repair the damage either
on its own, or through a subcontractor, and bill the landowner for the cost of
repair.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 52.14 PRIVATE WELLS.
   The drilling of new private wells for domestic use on any property to which
city water utility service is available within 1,000 feet is prohibited.
Violation of this section is a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 53: SEWER
Section
   
53.01   Requirements to connect or discontinue
   
53.02   Failure to connect; Council action
   
53.03   Application for connection
   
53.04   Special connection charge and inspection
   
53.05   Infiltration of sewer system
   
53.06   Responsibility of owner
   
53.07   Sewer use charge
   
53.08   Billing
   
53.09   Collection of sewer charges
   
53.10   Surety bond
   
53.11   Persons authorized to make connections
   
53.12   Restrictions
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 REQUIREMENTS TO CONNECT OR DISCONTINUE.
   (A)   Each lot, piece or parcel of property in the city on which is
situated, any building from which sewage or waste of any kind is disposed is
hereby required to be connected with the sanitary sewer system of the city
within six months after the adoption of this chapter if sanitary sewer mains
are within 75 feet of any of the premises, or within six months after such
mains are constructed to within 75 feet of the premises; and it shall be
unlawful for any owner of any premises to suffer the construction, operation or
maintenance of any cesspool, septic tank or privy on the premises after that
time.
   (B)   All construction sites will be returned to as near the original
condition as possible by the applicant. If any settling occurs, the applicant
will be liable to protect the public from injury or property damage and have
repaired as soon as feasibly possible.
   (C)   Any discontinued sewer line will be sealed with the proper size and
material pipe cap or cement to assure no leakage. Excavation will be left open
until inspected and approved by a person authorized by the City Council.
(Ord. 80, passed 4-11-1994) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.02 FAILURE TO CONNECT; COUNCIL ACTION.
   Should the owner of any premises having access to the sanitary sewer system
as provided in §
53.01 fail to connect the premises with the sanitary sewer system, the Council
may cause the installation of a toilet in the premises and the connection
thereto with the sanitary sewer by an authorized representative of the city
upon 30 days’ notice to the owner thereof and may cause the cost of the
installation, together with the connection charges hereinafter provided, to be
assessed against the owner of the premises, which assessment and connection fee
shall be paid within 30 days after notification in writing to the owner of the
premises and if not paid within 30 days may be certified to the County Auditor
to be collected in the same time and manner and rate of interest as any other
assessment against the property.
(Ord. 80, passed 4-11-1994) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in §§
53.01 and
53.02, no premises shall be connected with the municipal sewer system, except
upon approval by the City Council of an application therefor filed with the
City Clerk by the owner of the premises to be connected.
   (B)   The application for a permit to connect with the sewer system shall
state an accurate description of the premises to be connected, the purposes to
which the premises are to be put, the quantity and character of sewage to be
disposed, a plat showing the location of the sewer services to be constructed,
a description of the materials to be used, the name of the person or firm by
whom the work is done and such other information as the Council may require.
(Ord. 80, passed 4-11-1994) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 SPECIAL CONNECTION CHARGE AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   No premises shall be connected with the sewer system, except upon the
payment of a special connection charge in an amount to be established by the
City Council.
   (B)   Excavation will not be closed until inspected and approved by a person
authorized by the City Council.
(Ord. 80, passed 4-11-1994) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 INFILTRATION OF SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The City Council finds the discharge of water from any roof, surface
ground, cistern overflow, sump pump, footing tile or swimming pool drainage or
other natural precipitation into the city sewer system will and has on numerous
occasions in the past, flooded and overloaded the sewer system to such an
extent as to cause significant and grave damage to the property of a large
number of city residents. Such damage is caused by the backup of sewage into
living quarters of residents and in addition to other damage creates a hazard
to health. The City Council therefore finds it essential to the maintenance of
health and to minimize damage to property that the provisions of this section
be strictly enforced to avoid emergencies in the future.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation having a roof, sump pump, swimming
pool discharge, cistern overflow or surface drain now connected and/or
discharging into the sanitary sewer system shall disconnect and/or remove same
prior to December 31, 1994. Dwellings, other buildings and structures which
require, because of the infiltration of water into basements, crawl spaces and
the like, a sump pump system to discharge excess water, shall have a
permanently installed discharge line which shall not at any time discharge
water into the sanitary sewer system except as provided by temporary wavier of
the City Council. Any disconnects or openings in the sanitary sewer lines shall
be closed or repaired In an effective, workman like manner so as to prevent
infiltration or leak of sewer gas.
   (C)   Every person owning improved real estate that discharges into the
sanitary sewer system shall allow the city to have an inspection of the
buildings to confirm that there is no sump pump or other prohibited discharge
into the sanitary sewer system. Any person refusing to allow his or her
property to be inspected shall immediately become subject to the surcharge
hereinafter provided. Any property found in violation of this section shall
make the necessary changes within ten working days to comply and such changes
shall be verified by city inspectors.
   (D)   In lieu of having the city inspect his or her property, any person may
furnish to the office of the City Clerk a certificate from a licensed plumber
certifying that the property in question is in compliance with this chapter. A
minimum surcharge of $100 per month is hereby imposed and shall be added to
every sewer billing mailed on or after December 31, 1994, to property owners
who are not in compliance with this section. The surcharge shall be added every
month until the property is in compliance as found by inspection or licensed
plumbers certificate. The imposition of such surcharge shall in no way limit
the right of the city to seek an injunction in County Court ordering the
property owner to disconnect the nonconforming connection to the sanitary sewer
system or from pursuing any other legal remedies available.
   (E)   The Council shall have the power and duty of hearing and deciding
requests for temporary waivers from the applicability of the provisions of this
chapter where strict enforcement would cause undue hardship because of
circumstances unique to the individual property under consideration or cause a
safety problem.
   (F)   Application for temporary waivers pursuant to this section will be
provided by the city.
      (1)   The application shall, at a minimum, identify the property for
which the temporary waiver is being applied, the name of the property owner/
applicant and describe in detail what characteristics of the subject property
create an undue hardship. Within a reasonable time the City Council shall make
its order deciding on the matter and serve a copy of such order upon the
applicant by mail or in person.
      (2)   Upon approval of an application for a temporary waiver, a property
owner shall be allowed to temporarily pump directly into the sanitary sewer
system between the dates as set by the City Council and provided the applicant
agrees to pay an additional fee of $25 per application period for the
additional sewer service, payable at the time of application submittal. The
holder of a temporary waiver shall allow a city official or to employ a
licensed plumber to certify prior to the end date of each subsequent year that
their discharge water connection has been removed from the sanitary sewer
system. A seal will be applied to the valve that discharges to the sanitary
sewer system. The seal is to remain in place until a new waiver is granted and
can be removed. If at any time the seal is found to be missing or tampered with
without the city’s knowledge, then the surcharge will be applied starting from
the last known application date of the seal. Failure to provide such
certification will place the waiver holder in violation of this chapter.
      (3)   Emergencies may occur at any time to a property. If the property
does not have a waiver but circumstances dictate that the sump pump must be
discharged to the sanitary sewer, the property owner must contact the city
within four hours after the connection is made. A waiver will be filled out by
the property owner on the next available business day with payment for the
waiver. The waiver will be submitted to the Council for review and approval.
When the emergency has been taken care of, the property owner will notify the
city and an inspection and seal will be applied as stated above.
      (4)   Storm and heavy rain events will not be considered an emergency
under any circumstances.
   (G)   A surcharge of a minimum of $100 per month is hereby imposed and added
to every sewer billing mailed on and after December 31, 1994 to property owners
who are not in compliance with this chapter. The surcharge shall be added every
month until the property is in compliance.
   (H)   Upon verified compliance with this section, the city reserves the
right to inspect such property at least yearly to verify compliance herewith.
   (I)   No sanitary or sewerage industrial waste shall contain any substance
which is deemed detrimental to the sewer system, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Any water or waste having a five-day biological oxygen demand
exceeding 1,000 parts per million by weight as averaged during any 12-month
period;
      (2)   Any gasoline, benzine, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (4)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastic, wood, animal manure, grit, brick, cement, onyx, carbide
or other matter that may interfere with the proper operation of the sewers or
sewage treatment plant;
      (5)   Any water or waste having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than nine,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage works;
      (6)   Any water or waste containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantities to constitute a hazard to humans or animals, injure or
interfere with sewage treatment, or create any hazard in the receiving waters
of the sewage treatment plant; and
      (7)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of a public
nuisance.
   (J)   Discharge of sump pumps into street. It is hereby unlawful for any
person, residence or business to discharge the property’s sump pump directly
into the city street between November 1 and April 1 of each year. Any violation
of this section is a petty misdemeanor and is considered a public nuisance.
   (K)   New construction. All new residences constructed within the city must
include a tagged Y valve for the purposes of directing sump pumps from the
sewer to the outside. The valve should be tagged to prevent discharge into the
sewer. Residents requesting waivers from discharge into the sewer must allow
city staff to enter the residence for the purpose of inspecting the Y valve and
insuring that the provisions of this section are complied with.
(Ord. 80, passed 4-11-1994; Ord. 115, passed 10-12-2015; Ord. passed 119,
passed 8-8-2016) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   The city shall own the sewer lines up to the curb line. In the event
that there is no curb on the property, the city shall own the sewer line up to
the edge of the dedicated curb line, or edge of the dedicated street.
   (B)   Initial installation shall be totally the expense of the installer.
Thereafter, the city shall own the lines as covered in division (A) above.
   (C)   The excavation will remain open until inspected and approved by an
inspector designated by the city.
(Ord. 80, passed 4-11-1994)
§ 53.07 SEWER USE CHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to all other charges, the owner, lessee or occupant of
each premises connected with the sewer system of the city shall pay a sewer
charge as provided and adopted by the City Council.
   (B)   In setting the sewer charge, the City Council shall take into
consideration whether or not the sewage discharge from a particular location is
of unusual quality or strength. Any rates of monies pertaining to the sewer
system shall be set by resolution by the City Council.
(Ord. 80, passed 4-11-1994) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 BILLING.
   (A)   The charges for sewer use and the availability thereof shall be billed
each month as a separate charge on the water bill submitted by the city to its
water patrons and as a separate bill to the occupant of premises connected to
the sewer system and not connected to the water system.
   (B)   Notwithstanding that the billing shall be in the name of the occupant
or the water user, sewer charges are hereby made a primary obligation of the
owner of the premises served.
(Ord. 80, passed 4-11-1994)
§ 53.09 COLLECTION OF SEWER CHARGES.
   Sewer charges will be collected in the manner described in
Chapter 50.
(Ord. 80, passed 4-11-1994; Ord. 109, passed 2-9-2015)
§ 53.10 SURETY BOND.
   No application for connection with the sewer system shall be approved unless
accompanied by a satisfactory surety bond conditioned upon the satisfactory
performance of the work and the saving of the city harmless from all injuries
to property or persons occasioned by such work and from all claims for labor or
material and otherwise as required by law.
(Ord. 80, passed 4-11-1994)
§ 53.11 PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO MAKE CONNECTIONS.
   No sewer services shall be constructed or tapped into the municipal sewer
system except by a licensed plumber or by a duly authorized representative of
the City Council.
(Ord. 80, passed 4-11-1994) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.12 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Any person making unauthorized connection with or use of the sanitary
sewer system shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   No septic system hauler or similar organization will be allowed to
dump into the city sewer system.
   (C)   Due to the design of the sewer plant, the city cannot allow such
dumping.
(Ord. 80, passed 4-11-1994) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violators of §
53.05 will be required to discontinue the discharge of such substance into the
sanitary sewer system. If, after ten days’ written notice, such user continues
to discharge such detrimental substance in the sewer system, the violator shall
be subject, upon conviction, to a fine of not less than $50. Each day such
violation continues to exist after receipt of notice of discontinuance, such
discharge as been given shall be deemed a separate violation.
   (C)   Upon conviction of §
53.12 thereof, a violator shall be fined not more than a maximum of $1,000 or
imprisoned for a period not to exceed 90 days.
(Ord. 80, passed 4-11-1994)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Highway Traffic Regulation Act adopted
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATION ACT ADOPTED.
   The regulatory provisions of M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from
time to time in the future, are hereby adopted as a traffic ordinance
regulating the use of highways, streets and alleys within the city, and are
hereby incorporated in and made a part of this chapter as completely as if set
out here in full.
(Ord. 56, passed 7-3-1974) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the statutes adopted by reference in §
70.01 is a violation of this chapter, when it occurs within the city. Any
person thus violating any provisions of §
70.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by a fine of not
to exceed $1,000, or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not to
exceed 90 days; but if a minimum fine or imprisonment is prescribed by M.S.
Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time to time, for an offense, the
penalty shall apply to a person convicted of the same offense under this
chapter.
(Ord. 56, passed 7-3-1974)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Presumption
   
71.02   General parking prohibitions
   
71.03   Winter parking regulations
   
71.04   Recreational vehicle parking
   
71.05   Truck parking
   
71.06   Impoundment of vehicle
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PRESUMPTION.
   As to any vehicle parking in violation when the driver is not present, it
shall be presumed the owner parked the vehicle, or that the driver was acting
as an agent of the owner.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 71.02 GENERAL PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within 20 feet of an intersection;
   (E)   In a sign posted fire lane;
   (F)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (G)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
the entrance when properly sign-posted;
   (H)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
   (I)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when the
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (J)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street, i.e., double parking;
   (K)   At any place where official signs prohibit or restrict stopping,
parking or both;
   (L)   In any alley, except for loading and unloading to or from adjacent
premises; and
   (M)   On any boulevard.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 71.03 WINTER PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle on a public
street for a continuous period in excess of 24 hours during the time period
from November 15 through April 30 of the following year. The city can require
vehicles to be moved during snow removal operations. The city may also
designate an area to be "no parking at any time" for the purpose of snow
removal. Written notice of the designation will be sent to all homeowners in
that area.
   (B)   The city will begin snow removal operations within 24 hours of a snow
event when the snow accumulates to a depth of three inches or more, unless
windy conditions prompt a snow removal event. During the snow plowing and snow
clean-up process, no vehicle shall be parked on any public street until snow
has been removed. Vehicles that are not removed from the city street will be
subject to towing at the city's discretion. The owner of a vehicle that is
towed will be responsible for any expenses incurred in towing and impounding
the vehicle.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place snow on public roadways
or sidewalks, in accordance with M. S. § 169.42, as amended.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-8-2010; Ord. 131, passed 3-9-2020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKING.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE is
defined as follows: travel trailers, including those that telescope or fold
down; chassis mounted campers; house cars; motor homes; tent trailers; slip in
campers; non-motorized trailers intended and generally used for transporting
boats; utility trailers; snowmobiles; all terrain vehicles boats; or other
watercraft.
   (B)   Unlawful act. It is unlawful for any person to leave or park a
“recreational vehicle” on or within the limits of any street or right-of-way
for a continuous period in excess of 48 hours.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   Detached trailer. It is unlawful for any person, as driver or operator
of a semi-trailer, or as the registered owner of a semi-trailer, to park, stop
or leave running or cause, or to allow or even to permit to be parked, stopped
or left running, whether knowingly or unknowingly, a semi-trailer, not attached
to a truck or truck tractor upon any public street, municipally-owned parking
area at city properties, or other public property.
   (B)   Residential District. It is unlawful for any person, as driver or
operator of a semi-trailer or as the registered owner of a semi-trailer, to
park, stop or leave running, or cause, allow or permit to be parked, stopped or
left running, whether knowingly or unknowingly, any such semi-trailer, whether
or not attached to a truck tractor, within any area zoned as a residential
district, except for the purpose of and while engaged in the loading and
unloading of the semi-trailer. The truck with attached semi- trailer may only
be parked in a residential district during the time it is actually engaged in
continuous actual acts of loading or unloading such a semi-trailer, otherwise
parking shall not be allowed in a Residential District.
   (C)   It is unlawful to park a semi-trailer, whether or not attached to a
truck-tractor, except in the Business District, for the period from 12:00
midnight to 6:00 a.m. No parking of any semi-trailer, whether attached or not
to a truck tractor, shall be permitted within the city, except in those areas
or zones specifically marked or authorized by the city as areas where the
parking is permitted and allowed.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLE.
   The Council may order the removal of a vehicle from a street to a garage or
other place of safety when the vehicle is left unattended and constitutes an
obstruction to traffic or prevents entry to and from, or services to be
provided to any residence (i.e., mail delivery), or hinders snow removal,
street improvements or maintenance operations. The vehicle shall not be
released until the fees for towing and storage are paid in addition to any fine
imposed for violation of this chapter as determined at the discretion of the
City Council.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating this chapter is guilty of a petty misdemeanor
punishable by a maximum fine as set by state law presently in the maximum
amount of $300, not including surcharges.
   (B)   Violations of this chapter may be charged, at the option of the City
Council, as misdemeanor offenses if the following conditions or situations are
proven to exist:
      (1)   The person charged with a violation of this ordinance has been
convicted of this chapter at least twice within the preceding 12-month period
of time; and/or
      (2)   The violation of this chapter was committed in a manner or under
circumstances so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or
property.
   (C)   Under the present provisions of state law, convictions for a
misdemeanor crime are punishable by $1,000 fine or 90 days in jail, or both.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-8-2010)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   OUTDOOR BURNING
CHAPTER 90: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
90.01   Tree removal; trimming of trees and shrubs
   
90.02   Fire zones; new construction regulated
   
90.03   Hours of public parks
   
90.04   Sidewalks
   
90.05   Uniform system of street names and house/building numbers
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 TREE REMOVAL; TRIMMING OF TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   Responsibility. Trees and shrubs in the boulevard areas are property
owner’s responsibility, not the city’s.
   (B)   Prohibitive obstructions. No tree or herbaceous plant or shrub shall
be planted or allowed to grow so as to obstruct the view or passage of any
vehicular traffic on streets, pathways or alleyways or pedestrians on pathways
or sidewalks.
   (C)   Trimming of trees. Private property trees, shrubs and any other
herbaceous plants must be trimmed so as not to cause a hazard to persons or
property on abutting property. All trees shall be pruned to sufficient height
to allow free passage to pedestrians and vehicular traffic nine feet over
sidewalks and pathways and 13 feet over streets, pathways and alleyways. Trees/
shrubs growing in or next to buildings is not allowed. Storm damaged trees are
to be cleaned up and maintained by property owner after inclement weather/wind
situations to avoid undue injury to person and property.
   (D)   Tree and stump removal. Damaged/diseased/deceased trees need to be
removed from boulevards and properties. Tree stumps also need to be removed
from properties and boulevards for safety reasons. Tree and stump removal is
the property owner’s responsibility, not the city’s.
   (E)   Assessment. If the provisions of the foregoing sections are not
complied with, the city shall send notice to the owner of record of the
property and to any lessee or occupant or any person having control of any lot
or parcel of land via first class mail, postage prepaid, demanding compliance
with this section. If the person to whom the notice has been sent fails,
neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions of this section within seven
days after the mailing of the notice, the city shall cause the duties to be
performed so as to bring the property into compliance, and the actual cost,
plus 15% for inspection and other costs in connection therewith, shall be
certified by the City Clerk to the owner of record of the lot or parcel. If
payment for the performance of the duties is not received by the City Clerk
within 30 days of the certification, the charges shall become a lien upon the
affected property and shall be added to, and become part of, the taxes next
assessed upon the lot or parcel of land and shall be collected in the manner of
the other taxes and assessments.
   (F)   Penalty. Any person who shall neglect, fail or refuse to comply with
the provisions of this section, or who shall resist, obstruct or harass any
person hired by the city to perform the duties necessary to comply, may be
subject to penalty by criminal prosecution. Violators subject to criminal
prosecution and subsequently found guilty shall be guilty of a petty
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 102, passed 3-14-2011) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 FIRE ZONES; NEW CONSTRUCTION REGULATED.
   (A)   The rules and regulations established by the appropriate state agency
of the state regarding Fire Code shall be applicable in the city.
   (B)   The entire city shall be designated Fire Zone Number 3.
(Ord. 59, passed 10-10-1977) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 HOURS OF PUBLIC PARKS.
   (A)   The city parks shall have a curfew of 11:00 p.m. All concessions will
close at that time and lights will be turned off.
   (B)   All alcoholic beverages in the parks shall be purchased and consumed
by adults only.
(Ord. 70, passed 5-12-1986) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   All sidewalks in the city hereafter, shall be constructed of materials
approved by the city, as herein prescribed, viz: commercial district frontage
shall be eight feet, side minimum of six feet. Residential and multi-family
(including in a commercial or industrial district) shall be four feet six
inches. Industrial and agriculture shall be site specific.
   (B)   When replacing sidewalks, they must match existing.
   (C)   The city does not mandate that a residential property have a sidewalk.
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be built and kept in repair by the owner of the
abutting property.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 UNIFORM SYSTEM OF STREET NAMES AND HOUSE/BUILDING NUMBERS.
   (A)   This section proposes the naming or renaming of the streets, avenues
and public ways in the city, also the numbering of houses and buildings
according to a uniform system.
   (B)   Thoroughfares running north and south shall be called streets, and
those running east and west shall be called avenues.
   (C)   Beginning with the first avenue north of County Road No. 1 as an
alphabetical beginning and consecutively thereafter alphabetically to the
north.
   (D)   In the same manner, streets will begin numbering on the west side of
the city proceeding consecutively to the east starting at the present 4th
Street and Skyview Drive as the new 4th Street which will leave a possible
expansion of streets to the west.
   (E)   House and building numbers shall be assigned and displayed in
accordance to the following plan.
      (1)   Assignment of numbers shall be as agreed by the City Council or its
agent, the City Clerk.
      (2)   Those buildings nearest the base streets (4th and County Road No.
1) will use the smallest numbers in that block series.
      (3)   Those buildings west of 4th Street will be considered in the 300
block until a new 3rd Street is established.
      (4)   Odd numbers shall be on west and south sides of avenues and
streets, even numbers on east and north to follow postal standards.
      (5)   Initial numbers will be assigned by a committee approved by the
City Council and thereafter by the City Clerk.
      (6)   Numbers shall be displayed within 30 days from the time the owner,
leaser or occupant are notified by the City Clerk either in person or by mail.
      (7)   Numbers shall be no less than three inches in height and displayed
so as to be clearly visible from the street.
      (8)   Numbers for even side of block will end with “0” except upstairs
and basement residence will end with “6”. Odd side of block will end with “1”,
except upstairs or basement residence will end with “5”.
      (9)   The first block north of County Road No. 1 will begin numbering
with 100 - 199 (A=200, B=300 and the like). 4th Street will start with 400
series to right.
      (10)   Blocks will use 00=20-40-60-80 on even sides and 11-31-51-71-91 on
odd sides of residential blocks for unison and clarity as much as possible.
This will allow approximately 60 feet per unit.
      (11)   The Business District will follow Section H and J as much as
possible, but will leave spacing for future expansion or change.
      (12)   Whenever a qualifying building is erected or moved in place, a
number shall be assigned at the time the building permit is granted.
   (F)   A copy of this section shall be filed in the office of the Register of
Deeds for the county, St. Peter, Minnesota, and also with the local postal
authority, if necessary. A copy shall be available in the office of the City
Clerk for inspection by the public. On or before January 31 of each year
thereafter, it shall be the duty of the City Clerk to prepare a certificate
stating the new numbers assigned during the proceeding calendar year, and send
on to the Register of Deeds of the county for attaching to the plat of the
city.
(Ord. 63, passed 8-13-1982) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever fails to comply with the provisions of §
90.05, or whoever shall affix to or display upon any house or building or
division thereof, any number other than that assigned, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
      (2)   Each and everyday thereafter, constitutes a separate and distinct
violation of §
90.05.
(Ord. 63, passed 8-13-1982)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Licensing
   
91.03   Licensing exception
   
91.04   Non-domestic and farm animals
   
91.05   At large
   
91.06   Assistance animals
   
91.07   Kennels
   
91.08   Cleanup
   
91.09   Nuisances
   
91.10   Violations; enforcement
   
91.11   Dangerous dogs
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody or control
of the owner or authorized person either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise
restrained or confined.
   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those commonly accepted as domesticated household pets.
The animals include dogs, cats, caged birds, gerbils, guinea pigs, domesticated
rabbits, fish, non-poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or
amphibians, and other similar animals.
   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or performing
work in agricultural settings. Unless otherwise defined, those animals shall
include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine family (cows,
bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese), swine
(including pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees and other animals associated with a
farm, ranch or stable.
   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. The animals commonly considered to be naturally wild
and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly considered:
      (1)   Any member of the large cat family, including lions, tigers,
cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly excepted
domestic house cats;
      (2)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family including wolves,
foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly excepted
domesticated canines;
      (3)   Any crossbreed between a wild animal and a domestic animal unless
the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet;
      (4)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including skunk,
raccoon, squirrel or ferret, but excluding those otherwise defined or commonly
accepted as domesticated house pets;
      (5)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators; and
      (6)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above, but which
can be reasonably defined by these definitions, including, but not limited to,
bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   OWNER. Any person(s), firm, association or corporation owning, keeping or
harboring an animal.
(Ord. 105, passed - -2013)
§ 91.02 LICENSING.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep or harbor a dog or cat unless the dog or cat
is licensed as provided herein, and must be accompanied by a certificate of
vaccination from a qualified source certifying that the dog or cat has been
vaccinated against rabies and distemper, or has received a booster shot
therefor, within the 24-month period immediately preceding the application.
   (B)   The annual license fee shall be as determined by the City Council in
the city fee schedule. The license fee shall be paid at the time of making the
application.
   (C)   All dog or cat licenses shall be issued for one year beginning with
January 1 each year. Application for license may be made 30 days prior to
January 1 each year.
(Ord. 105, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 LICENSING EXCEPTION.
   A licensing exception will be made for dogs and cats under six months,
animals brought into the city for a limited time as part of an operating zoo,
veterinarian clinic, scientific research laboratory, a licensed show or
exhibit, or by temporary visitors to the city.
(Ord. 105, passed - -2013)
§ 91.04 NON-DOMESTIC AND FARM ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to suffer or permit animals other than
commonly accepted domestic pets to be housed, kept, stabled or confined within
the city limits of the city.
(Ord. 105, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or permit any animal to run at
large in public places, on private property, on public streets or to be driven
or herded thereon unless the animal is confined within an appropriate vehicle
or restrained be appropriate means.
(Ord. 105, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 ASSISTANCE ANIMALS.
   Any animal specifically trained and certified for the assistance of the
handicapped or disabled will be required to follow the provisions for licensing
and restraint as provided above. Certification papers will need to be provided
when purchasing a license.
(Ord. 105, passed - -2013)
§ 91.07 KENNELS.
   (A)   Definition of kennel. The keeping of more than three dogs or cats on
the same premises, whether owned by the same person or not and for whatever
purpose kept, shall constitute a “kennel”; except that a fresh litter of
puppies or kittens may be kept for a period of six months before the keeping
shall be deemed a “kennel”.
   (B)   Kennel as a nuisance. Because the keeping of more than three dogs or
cats on the same premises is subject to great abuse, causing discomfort to the
persons in the area by way of smell, noise, hazard and general aesthetics
depreciation, the keeping of more than three dogs or cats on the premises is
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and no person shall keep or maintain a kennel
within the city.
(Ord. 105, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 CLEANUP.
   The owner of any animal or person having the custody or control of any
animal shall be responsible for cleaning up of any feces of the animal and
disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether it is on their own
property, on the property of others, or on public property.
(Ord. 105, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.09 NUISANCES.
   (A)   A pet which habitually barks, yelps, howls, cries or whimpers so as to
unreasonably disturb the peace and quiet of any person in the vicinity. The
phrase UNREASONABLY DISTURB THE PEACE AND QUIET shall include, but is not
limited to, the creation of any noise by a pet which can be heard by any
person, including law enforcement officers, from the premises of any
neighboring property, or in any case more than 100 feet from the building or
premises where the pet is being kept and the noise occurs repeatedly over at
least a five-minute period of time within one minute or less lapse of time
between each pet noise during the five-minute period;
   (B)   Has attached or bitten a person outside of its owner’s premises or has
shown dangerous animal tendencies; or
   (C)   Has destroyed or damaged any lawn, garden, shrubbery, foliage or
property or habitually trespasses in a damaging manner on property of persons
other than its owner. The owner shall be responsible for the actions of his or
her pet and shall be responsible for the cleanup of any defecation on any
public or private property, city street, sidewalk or park.
(Ord. 105, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.10 VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person allowing a pet under his or her control to run at large is
in violation of this chapter. Any person failing to prevent a pet from
committing a public nuisance as mentioned in §
91.09 is in violation of this chapter, and subject to administrative fines.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
   (C)   The city designates the County Sheriff’s Department as an enforcing
agent along with the city and/or its staff and representatives.
(Ord. 105, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.11 DANGEROUS DOGS
   (A)   Title and jurisdiction. This section shall be known, cited, and
referred to as the "City of Lafayette Dangerous Dog Ordinance," except as
referred to herein, where it shall be known as "this section." The provisions
of this section shall apply to all dogs found or located in the City of
Lafayette.
   (B)   Purpose and intent. It is the intent of the city to protect the health
and safety of the public against the risks that dangerous and potentially
dangerous dogs pose to persons and other animals in the city. By their very
nature, dogs that are classified as "dangerous" or "potentially dangerous" pose
a direct threat to the people and other animals that live in the same community
or may otherwise come into contact with the dangerous or potentially dangerous
dogs. Further, it is the intent of the city to afford dog owners due process
when the owner's dog is classified as a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous
dog, consistent with M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.56 or other related laws. This
section shall only apply to dogs considered dangerous or potentially dangerous,
and it shall not impact the regulation or control of other animals, whether
wild or domestic.
   (C)   Definitions.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Nicollet County Sheriff; an agency of the
state, county, or other governmental subdivision of the state which is
responsible for animal control operations; or any law enforcement agent or
other public official acting under their direction and control. Additionally,
ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY shall mean any individual, organization, partnership,
or entity operating under contract to perform animal control operations
pursuant to a written agreement authorized and approved by the City Council.
      BOARD. The Nicollet County Board of Commissioners.
      COUNTY. The County of Nicollet, a political subdivision of the State of
Minnesota.
      DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that has:
         (a)   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a
person on public or private property; or
         (b)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the
property of the owner or custodian; or
         (c)   Been found to be a potentially dangerous dog and, after the
owner has notice that the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog aggressively
bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      GREAT BODILY HARM. Bodily injury which creates a high probability of
death, or which causes serious or permanent disfigurement, or which causes
permanent or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member
or organ or other serious bodily harm.
      HEARING OFFICER. A person, designated by the Board, who is tasked with
making a determination in an appeal hearing of a designation of dangerous dog
or potentially dangerous dog. The person appointed shall be a licensed doctor
of veterinary medicine, or a qualified person trained in domestic animal
husbandry.
      KILL OR KILLS. The existence of a direct causal connection between the
act of the attacking dog and the death of the person or other animal. For
domestic animals that are euthanized following such an attack, KILL OR KILLS
shall mean the death was the direct consequence of the attack; that extensive
veterinarian assistance would be ultimately futile and only temporarily prolong
the life of the animal; and that euthanasia merely hastened the inevitable
death of the victim animal.
      MICROCHIP OR MICROCHIPPED. A device or implantation of a device,
authorized and generally accepted by the veterinary community, to be
permanently implanted in the dog, allowing for permanent identification of the
dog and the dog's owner, via scanning and reading of the microchip through the
dog's skin and hair or fur.
      OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, organization, association,
department, or corporation owning, possessing, keeping, harboring, having an
interest in, or having care, custody, or control of the dog. Any person keeping
or harboring a dog for five consecutive days shall, for the purposes of this
section, be deemed to be the owner thereof.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG is one that:
         (a)   When unprovoked, inflicts a bite on a person or domestic animal
on public or private property; or
         (b)   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person or domestic
animal, including a person on a bicycle upon the streets, sidewalks, or any
public or private property, other than the dog owner's property, in an apparent
attitude of attack; or
         (c)   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      PROPER ENCLOSURE. A securely confined interior area or a securely
enclosed and locked pen or kennel suitable to prevent the dog from escaping and
providing protection from the elements for the dog. A PROPER ENCLOSURE does not
include: a porch, patio or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that
would either allow the public to lawfully enter or the dog to exit of its own
volition; or any house or structure in which windows are open or in which door
or window screens are the only barriers that prevent the dog from exiting.
      PROVOCATION OR PROVOKED. An act that a person could reasonably expect may
cause a dog to attack or bite.
      SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM. Bodily injury which involves a temporary but
substantial disfigurement, or which causes a temporary but substantial loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ, or which causes a
fracture of any bodily member.
      UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the dog is not purposefully excited,
stimulated, agitated, or disturbed. It shall be a rebuttable presumption that
any attack on a child 12 years of age or younger shall be deemed UNPROVOKED,
unless the child is engaged in the commission of a crime or illegal activity,
including activities classified as "cruelty to animals" as defined in M.S. Ch.
343.
      WARNING. The posted and obviously visible signage indicating the presence
of a potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog on the property. The WARNING
shall be posted on the property of the dog owner, or in the location where the
dog is maintained, harbored, or kept. Said WARNING shall  include, when deemed
necessary by law enforcement, the Animal Control Authority, or the Hearing
Officer, the uniform dangerous dog symbol as designed and prepared by the
Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Public Safety. Said symbol, when
required, shall be made available to the dog owner, by the Nicollet County
Sheriff's Office. The Nicollet County Sheriff's Office may require a reasonable
fee for copies of the designated uniform dangerous dog symbol.
   (D)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess, keep, harbor,
or have in one's possession a potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog,
except as provided in this section.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess, keep, harbor,
or maintain a dog after having been ordered to relinquish or release the dog
pursuant to the order of a Hearing Officer, the County Board, or the District
Court, when able to do so or reasonably able to direct others to do so on the
person's behalf.
   (E)   Potentially dangerous dog designation.
      (1)   Designation as potentially dangerous dog.
         (a)   Notice requirements. Any law enforcement officer or the Animal
Control Authority shall designate any dog as a potentially dangerous dog upon
information and belief that the dog meets any of the criteria set forth in
division (C).
         (b)   When a dog is designated a potentially dangerous dog, law
enforcement or the Animal Control Authority, shall personally serve the owner
of the potentially dangerous dog with the written notification of potentially
dangerous dog. Personal service of this Notification shall be made upon the
owner or a person of suitable age and discretion at the residence of such
owner. Service on any one owner or joint owner shall be effective as to all
owners.
         (c)   The notification of potentially dangerous dog shall provide:
            1.   A description of the dog designated as a potentially dangerous
dog;
            2.   The authority for and purpose of the potentially dangerous dog
designation;
            3.   The date, time, place, and circumstances under which the dog
was declared potentially dangerous;
            4.   The imposition of conditions, as set forth in divisions (E)(3)
and (E)(4), determined to be necessary and reasonable to continue owning,
maintaining, or harboring a potentially dangerous dog;
            5.   An advisory informing the owner that within 14 calendar days
from the date of service, the owner may submit in writing to the Nicollet
County Sheriff's Office a request for hearing and notice of intent to appeal
the potentially dangerous dog determination or the imposition of conditions
placed on the owner as set forth in divisions (E)(3) and divisions (E)(4); and
            6.   An advisory informing the owner that, if the owner does not
request a hearing by timely submitting a notice of intent to appeal within 14
calendar days, the potentially dangerous dog designation will stand and the
owner will be subject to all restrictions and conditions as set forth in the
notification of potentially dangerous dog issued by law enforcement or the
Animal Control Authority.
      (2)   Hearing - potentially dangerous dog.
         (a)   If an owner appeals a potentially dangerous dog designation or
conditions imposed, the hearing shall be held before a Hearing Officer not more
than 30 calendar days after the Nicollet County Sheriff's Office is notified of
the owner's intent to appeal. The notice of appeal and request for hearing
shall be made directly to the Nicollet County Sheriff's Office. If mailed, the
written request must be postmarked within the specified time period. If
personally served, the written request must be received within the specified
time period.
         (b)   At any time following the potentially dangerous dog designation
and any time pending hearing, the dog may be seized and kept by law enforcement
or the Animal Control Authority, unless the owner shows proof, satisfactory to
the Nicollet County Sheriff's Office, that the dog:
            1.   Has met the requirements for rabies, vaccinations, distemper,
and/or other conditions;
            2.   Is kept only in a proper enclosure, unless restrained on a
leash with muzzle; and
            3.   Is otherwise maintained under circumstances which do not
present an unreasonable risk of harm to persons or other domestic animals. All
costs related to seizing the dog shall be borne by the dog owner.
         (c)   At the hearing, the records of law enforcement and the Animal
Control Authority related to the alleged bite(s), attack(s), or threatening
behavior, medical or veterinarian records, and all reliable hearsay directly
related to the alleged bite(s), attack(s), or behavior shall be admissible for
consideration by the Hearing Officer without further foundation.
         (d)   Law enforcement or the Animal Control Authority shall be
represented by the Nicollet County Attorney's Office. The owner may be
represented by legal counsel hired by the owner at the owner's sole expense.
The owner is not entitled to a public defender, court-appointed attorney, or
any other legal representation at public expense.
         (e)   At the hearing, law enforcement and/or the Animal Control
Authority and the owner may present live testimony of witnesses, cross-examine
witnesses, and present documents to support their respective positions. The
Nicollet County Attorney's Office and the owner of the dog may apply to the
District Court for subpoenas to compel the testimony of witnesses.
         (f)   After considering all evidence relating to the alleged bite(s),
attack(s), or threatening behavior, and no later than 10 business days after
the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall issue its decision. The decision shall
determine whether or not to uphold the potentially dangerous dog designation.
If the designation is upheld, the decision shall require that the dog have a
microchip implanted, as set forth in divisions (C) and (E)(3)(a)1. of this
section, at the owner's expense. The order may also direct law enforcement to
seize the dog or, if not previously seized, to take the dog into custody, and
it may impose any other conditions appropriate for continued ownership,
harboring, or maintaining of a potentially dangerous dog whether or not set
forth in divisions (E)(3) and divisions (E)(4). The decision must be delivered
to the dog's owner personally or by certified mail as soon as practical and a
copy must be provided to the Animal Control Authority.
         (g)   In the event that the potentially dangerous dog designation is
upheld by the Hearing Officer, actual expenses of the hearing, up to a maximum
of $1,000, shall be the responsibility of the dog's owner.
      (3)   Registration of a potentially dangerous dog.
         (a)   All potentially dangerous dogs must be registered with the
Nicollet County Sheriff's Office. An individual seeking to register a
potentially dangerous dog must present the Animal Control Authority with proof
of the following:
            1.   Microchip. Proof the dog has been implanted with a microchip
as defined by division (C). If the dog has been seized, the owner must arrange
for the dog to be microchipped before or at the time of release from custody of
law enforcement or the Animal Control Authority. The name of the microchip
manufacturer and identification number of the microchip must be provided to the
Animal Control Authority. If the microchip is not implanted by the owner, it
may be implanted by a qualified veterinarian under the direction of the Animal
Control Authority. In either case, all costs related to implantation of the
microchip must be borne by the dog's owner;
            2.   Annual Fee. The owner must, at the time of initial
registration, and every year thereafter, submit an annual registration fee of
$500 per year to the Nicollet County Sheriff's Office; and
            3.   Vaccination. At the time of registration and as a condition of
maintaining the dog in the owner's care, the dog owner must provide proof of
proper vaccinations against rabies, distemper, or other conditions, and provide
proof of such vaccination annually upon renewal of registration.
      (4)   A dog owner seeking to possess, keep, harbor, or maintain a
potentially dangerous dog on the owner's property, the owner's residence, or
other property under the owner's control must comply with the following
conditions:
         (a)   The owner of a dog that has been designated as a potentially
dangerous dog by law enforcement, the Animal Control Authority, or Hearing
Officer must arrange for the dog to be microchipped, as set forth in divisions
(C) and (E)(3)(a)1. of this section, at the owner's expense;
         (b)   The owner must post notice and warning of the presence of a
potentially dangerous dog on the front and back of the property, using signs
and language that is understandable to children;
         (c)   The owner and dog may be required to successfully complete an
approved dog obedience class at the owner's expense and provide proof of that
successful completion to the Nicollet County Sheriff's Office. Failure to
successfully complete the course in a timely manner, if mandated, may result in
the seizure of the dog by law enforcement or the Animal Control Authority;
         (d)   The dog may be required to be kept in a proper enclosure, or be
restrained by chain or leash not to exceed eight feet in length, and muzzled,
and under the control of a person 18 years of age or older at all times if it
is outdoors and not inside a proper enclosure;
   (F)   Dangerous dog designation.
      (1)   Designation as dangerous dog.
         (a)   Any law enforcement officer, the Animal Control Authority, or
other authorized agent of the county shall designate any dog as a dangerous dog
upon information and belief that the dog meets any of the criteria in division
(C).
         (b)   When a dog is designated a dangerous dog, law enforcement or the
Animal Control Authority shall personally serve the owner of the dangerous dog
with a written notification of dangerous dog. The authority declaring the dog
as dangerous shall give notice of this section by delivering or mailing it to
the owner of the dog, or by posting a copy of it at a place where the dog is
kept, or by delivering it to a person residing on the property, and
telephoning, if possible. Service on any one owner or joint-owner shall be
effective service as to all owners.
         (c)   Notice requirements. The notification of dangerous dog shall
provide:
            1.   A description of the dog designated as a dangerous dog;
            2.   The authority for and purpose of the dangerous dog designation
and seizure;
            3.   The date, time, place, and circumstances under which the dog
was declared dangerous;
            4.   The telephone number and contact person where the dog is kept;
            5.   The imposition of conditions determined to be necessary and
reasonable for continued ownership, maintaining, or harboring of a dangerous
dog as set forth in divisions (F)(3) and (F)(4) of this section;
            6.   An advisory informing the owner that, within 14 calendar days
from the date of service, the owner may request a hearing concerning the
dangerous dog designation and, if applicable, prior potentially dangerous dog
designations for the dog. If the owner fails to request a hearing within 14
calendar days of the date of the notice, the owner's right to a hearing under
this section will terminate;
            7.   If a request for hearing is made within 14 calendar days of
the Notice, the owner must immediately comply with the requirements of
divisions (F)(4)(c) (proper enclosure), (F)(3)(a)3. (vaccination), and (F)(5)
(requirements for maintaining a dangerous dog) of this section until such time
as the Hearing Officer issues its decision;
            8.   A statement that if the Hearing Officer upholds the dangerous
dog declaration, the owner will have 14 calendar days from receipt of that
decision to comply with all the requirements of divisions (F)(3)
(registration), (F)(4) (conditions), and (F)(5) (requirements of maintaining a
dangerous dog) of this section;
            9.   The person claiming an interest in the dog is responsible for
all actual costs of the care, keeping, and disposition of the dog, except to
the extent that a court or Hearing Officer finds that the seizure or
impoundment was not substantially justified by law.
      (2)   Hearing - dangerous dog.
         (a)   If any owner requests a hearing to appeal the designation as a
dangerous dog, the hearing shall be held before a Hearing Officer not more than
14 business days after the Nicollet County Sheriff's Office is notified of the
owner's intent to appeal. The notice of appeal and request for hearing shall be
made directly to the Nicollet County Sheriff's Office. If mailed, the written
request must be postmarked within the specified time period. If personally
served, the written request must be received within the specified time period.
         (b)   At any time following the dangerous dog designation and any time
pending hearing, the dog may be seized and kept by law enforcement or the
Animal Control Authority, unless the owner shows proof, satisfactory to the
Nicollet County Sheriff's Office, that the dog:
            
            1.   Has met the requirements for rabies, vaccinations, distemper,
and/or other conditions;
            2.   Is kept only in a proper enclosure, unless restrained on a
leash with muzzle; and
            3.   Is otherwise maintained under circumstances which do not
present an unreasonable risk of harm to persons or other domestic animals.
         (c)   All costs related to seizing the dog shall be borne by the dog
owner(s).
         (d)   At the hearing, the records of law enforcement and the Animal
Control Authority related to the alleged bite(s), attack(s) or behavior,
medical or veterinarian records, and all reliable hearsay directly related to
the alleged attack(s) shall be admissible for consideration by the Hearing
Officer without further foundation.
         (e)   Law enforcement or the Animal Control Authority shall be
represented by the Nicollet County Attorney's Office. The owner may be
represented by legal counsel hired by the owner at the owner's sole expense.
The owner is not entitled to a public defender, court-appointed attorney, or
any other legal representation at public expense.
         (f)   At the hearing, law enforcement and/or the Animal Control
Authority and the owner may present live testimony of witnesses, cross-examine
witnesses, and present documents to support their respective positions. The
Nicollet County Attorney's Office and the owner of the dog may apply to the
District Court for subpoenas to compel the testimony of witnesses.
         (g)   After considering all evidence relating to the alleged bite(s),
attack(s), or behavior, and no later than 10 business days after the hearing,
the Hearing Officer shall issue its decision. The decision shall determine
whether or not to uphold the dangerous dog designation. If the decision is
upheld, the Hearing Officer may: direct law enforcement or the Animal Control
Authority to seize the dog, if not previously seized by the Animal Control
Authority, and take it into custody; require that the owner have a microchip
implanted as set forth in divisions (C) and (F)(3)(a)1., at the owner's
expense; or require the owner to comply with any or all conditions for
continued ownership, harboring, or maintaining of a dangerous dog, whether or
not set forth in divisions (F)(3), (F)(4), and (F)(5). The decision must be
delivered to the dog's owner personally or by certified mail as soon as
practical and a copy must be provided to the Animal Control Authority.
         (h)   Failure to release dog following hearing. Any owner who does any
of the following acts after a decision by the Hearing Officer upholding the
dangerous dog designation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor:
            1.   Possesses, keeps, harbors, or maintains a dangerous dog; or
            2.   Refuses to release to or fails to produce the dangerous dog to
law enforcement or the Animal Control Authority pursuant to a demand of law
enforcement or the Animal Control Authority.
         (i)   Authority to order destruction of dog. The Hearing Officer, upon
upholding a dangerous dog designation, is authorized to order, as part of the
disposition of the case, that the dog be destroyed based upon findings that
either of the following criteria is present:
            1.   The dog is dangerous, as demonstrated by a vicious attack,
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning, or multiple attacks and the owner
of the dog has demonstrated an inability or unwillingness to sufficiently
control the dog in order to prevent injury to persons or other animals; or
            2.   The owner cannot, will not, does not, or otherwise refuses to
provide proof of liability insurance for the dog as required by division (F)(4)
(b).
         (j)   In the event that the dangerous dog designation is upheld by the
Hearing Officer, actual expenses of the hearing, up to a maximum of $1,000,
shall be the responsibility of the dog's owner.
      (3)   Registration of a dangerous dog. All dangerous dogs must be
registered with the Nicollet County Sheriff's Office. An individual seeking to
register a dangerous dog must present the Animal Control Authority with proof
of the following:
         (a)   Microchip. Proof the dog has been implanted with a microchip as
defined in division (C). If the dog has been seized, the owner must arrange for
the dog to be microchipped before or at the time of release from custody of law
enforcement or the Animal Control Authority. The name of the microchip
manufacturer and identification number of the microchip must be provided to the
Animal Control Authority. If the microchip is not implanted by the owner, it
may be implanted by a qualified veterinarian under the direction of the Animal
Control Authority. In either case, all costs related to implantation of the
microchip must be borne by the dog's owner;
         (b)   Annual fee. The owner must, at the time of initial registration,
and every year thereafter, submit an annual registration fee of $500 per year
to the Nicollet County Sheriff's Office; and
         (c)   Vaccination. At the time of registration and as a condition of
maintaining the dog in the owner's care, the dog owner must provide proof of
proper vaccinations against rabies, distemper, or other conditions, and provide
proof of such vaccination annually upon renewal of registration.
      (4)   A dog owner seeking to possess, keep, harbor, or maintain a
dangerous dog on the owner's property, the owner's residence, or other property
under the owner's control must comply with the following conditions:
         (a)   The dangerous dog must meet all the registration requirements of
division (F)(3);
         (b)   Liability insurance. At the time of registration and as a
condition of maintaining the dog in the owner's care, the dog owner must
provide a surety bond issued by a surety company authorized to conduct business
in this state in a form acceptable to the Animal Control Authority in the sum
of at least $300,000 per person and $600,000 per incident, payable to any
person(s) injured by the dangerous dog; or a policy of liability insurance
issued by an insurance company authorized to conduct business in this state in
the amount of at least $300,000 per person and $600,000 per incident, insuring
the owner for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog. At a
minimum, the dog owner shall provide proof of the liability insurance to the
Nicollet County Sheriff's Office annually when the owner pays the annual fee
specified in division (F)(3)(a)2.;
         (c)   Proper enclosure. The dog must be maintained in a proper
enclosure as defined in division (C);
         (d)   Display warning/posting as dangerous dog. The owner must clearly
post the warning on the property with the uniform dangerous dog symbol, as
specified by the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Public Safety.
Posting must include the front and rear of the owner's property and on the
proper enclosure in which the dog is maintained. The owner shall pay the fee
for cost of the sign to the Animal Control Authority;
         (e)   Dangerous dog collar. A registered dangerous dog must have a
standardized, easily identifiable tag identifying the dog as dangerous,
containing the uniform dangerous dog symbol, and shall be affixed to the dog's
collar at all times; and
         (f)   Proper restraint. The dog must be restrained by chain or leash
not to exceed eight feet in length, must be muzzled, and must be under the
physical control of a person 18 years of age or older at all times it is
outdoors and not inside a proper enclosure.
      (5)   Requirements for maintaining a dangerous dog.
         (a)   An owner of a dangerous dog shall keep the dog, while on the
owner's property, in a proper enclosure. If the dog is outside the proper
enclosure, the dog must be muzzled and restrained by a proper restraint and
under the physical restraint of a person 18 years of age or older. The muzzle
must be made in a manner that will prevent the dog from biting any person or
animal, but that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision
or respiration.
         (b)   An owner of a dangerous dog must renew the registration of the
dog annually until the dog is deceased. If the dog is removed from the
jurisdiction, it must be registered as a dangerous dog in its new jurisdiction.
         (c)   An owner of a dangerous dog must notify the Animal Control
Authority in writing of the death of the dog or its transfer to a new location
where the dog will reside within 30 calendar days of the death or transfer, and
must, if requested by the Animal Control Authority, execute an affidavit under
oath setting forth either the circumstances of the dog's death and disposition,
or the complete name, address, and telephone number of the person to whom the
dog has been transferred or the address where the dog has been relocated.
         (d)   The Animal Control Authority shall require a dangerous dog to be
sterilized at the owner's expense. If the owner does not have the animal
sterilized within 30 calendar days, the Animal Control Authority shall seize
the dog and have it sterilized at the owner's expense.
         (e)   A person who owns a dangerous dog and who rents property from
another where the dog will reside must disclose to the property owner prior to
entering the lease agreement and at the time of any lease renewal that the
person owns a dangerous dog that will reside at the property.
         (f)   A person who transfers ownership of a dangerous dog must notify
the new owner that the Animal Control Authority or Hearing Officer has
designated the dog as a dangerous dog. The current owner must also notify the
Animal Control Authority in writing of the transfer of ownership and provide
the Animal Control Authority with the new owner's name, address, and telephone
number.
   (G)   Appeals, reviews, and compliance.
      (1)   Appeals of dangerous dog and potentially dangerous dog
determinations. The decision of the Hearing Officer is a quasi-judicial
determination that may be appealed by writ of certiorari to the Minnesota Court
of Appeals. An order from the Hearing Officer for the destruction of a dog
shall be stayed upon receipt of a notice of appeal if the notice of appeal is
served on the Nicollet County Sheriff's Office within seven business days of
service of said order on the owner.
      (2)   Review of designation. No sooner than six months after a dog is
designated as a dangerous dog, and then annually thereafter, an owner may
request that the Animal Control Authority review the designation. The owner
must provide evidence that the dog's behavior has changed due to the dog's age,
neutering, environment, completion of obedience training that includes
modification of aggressive behavior, or other factors. If the Animal Control
Authority finds sufficient evidence that the dog's behavior has changed, the
Animal Control Authority may rescind the dangerous dog designation.
      (3)   Compliance with designation.
         (a)   Upon receipt of the notification of dangerous dog or Hearing
Officer's decision following a hearing, the owner or custodian of the dog shall
comply with the requirements as set forth in the original notification, or, if
a hearing is held, the decision of the Hearing Officer.
         (b)   If an owner or custodian of the dog fails to comply with any
conditions set forth in the written notification or as subsequently specified
in the Hearing Officer's decision and fails to request a hearing as provided in
divisions (E)(2) and(F)(2) of the section, the dog may be seized by law
enforcement or the Animal Control Authority.
      (4)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of a dog which has been designated
dangerous or potentially dangerous is subject to the conditions of this section
and has allegedly failed to comply with the conditions, the dog must be seized
by law enforcement or the Animal Control Authority. Notice shall be provided to
the owner of the basis for the seizure and the right to request a hearing
before a Hearing Officer, as set forth in divisions (E)(2) and (F)(2), to
determine whether the conditions were violated. A request for hearing must be
made within 14 calendar days of the seizure. If the owner fails to timely
request a hearing, or is found to have violated the conditions, the Hearing
Officer shall order the dog destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the
owner shall pay the costs of confining the dog. If the owner is found not to
have violated the conditions, the owner may reclaim the dog under conditions
set by the Animal Control Authority.
      (5)   Confiscation of dog. Law enforcement or the Animal Control
Authority shall immediately seize any dangerous dog or potentially dangerous
dog if:
         (a)   The dog is not validly registered with the Nicollet County
Sheriff's Office within 14 calendar days of a designation that the dog is
dangerous or potentially dangerous by law enforcement, the Animal Control
Authority, or a Hearing Officer.
         (b)   The owner does not secure and provide proof of the proper
liability insurance or surety coverage as required in division (F)(4)(b) within
14 calendar days of a final determination by law enforcement, the Animal
Control Authority, or a Hearing Officer that the dog is a dangerous dog or
potentially dangerous dog;
         (c)   The dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure as required in
division (F)(4)(c);
         (d)   The dog is outside the proper enclosure and not under physical
restraint of a responsible person as required under division (F)(5)(a); or
         (e)   The dog is not sterilized within 30 calendar days, pursuant to
division (F)(5)(d).
      (6)   If an owner of a dog is convicted of a crime for which the dog was
originally seized, the District Court may order that the dog be confiscated and
destroyed in a proper and humane manner, and that the owner pay the costs
incurred in confiscating, confining, and destroying the dog.
      (7)   Reclamation of seized dog. A dangerous dog or potentially dangerous
dog seized under division (G)(5) above may be reclaimed by the owner of the dog
upon payment of impounding and boarding fees, and presenting proof to the
appropriate Animal Control Authority that the requirements of this section are
and will be met. A dog not reclaimed under this section within seven calendar
days may be disposed of in a manner permitted by law, and the owner is liable
to the Animal Control Authority for costs incurred in confining and disposing
of the dog.
      (8)   Subsequent violations. If a person has been convicted of a
misdemeanor for violating a provision of M.S. §§ 347.51, 347.515, or 347.52,
and the person is charged with a subsequent violation relating to the same dog,
the dog must be seized by the Animal Control Authority having jurisdiction. If
the owner is convicted of the crime for which the dog was seized, the court
shall order that the dog be destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the
owner pay the cost of confining and destroying the dog. If the owner is not
convicted and the dog is not reclaimed by the owner within seven calendar days
after the owner has been notified that the dog may be reclaimed, the dog may be
disposed of in a manner permitted by law.
   (H)   Exemptions.
      (1)   A dog may not be declared dangerous if the threat, injury, or
damage was sustained by a person who:
         (a)   Was committing, at the time, a willful trespass or other tort
upon the premises occupied by the owner of the dog;
         (b)   Was provoking, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, or
who can be shown to have repeatedly in the past, provoked, tormented, abused,
or assaulted the dog; or
         (c)   Was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      (2)   Law enforcement exemption. Dangerous dog or potentially dangerous
dog designations shall not apply to a law enforcement canine used by law
enforcement officials for police work.
   (I)   Destruction of dogs in certain circumstances. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this section, any dog taken into custody may be immediately
disposed of when the dog is suffering and is believed to be beyond cure, as
determined in writing by a licensed doctor of veterinary medicine, through
reasonable care and treatment.
   (J)   Penalties
      (1)   Any person found to have violated the conditions for maintaining,
harboring, or keeping a potentially dangerous or dangerous dog as required
under this section, is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by up to a $1,000
fine and/or 90 days in jail.
      (2)   Any person who willfully fails to comply with the order of a
Hearing Officer, the Board or District Court, is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by up to a $1,000 fine and/or 90 days in jail.
      (3)   A person who violates a provision of M.S. §§ 347.51, 347.515, or
347.52 is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by up to a $1,000 fine and/or 90
days in jail.
      (4)   A person who removes a microchip from a dangerous dog or
potentially dangerous dog, fails to renew the registration of a dangerous dog,
fails to account for a dangerous dog's death or change of location where the
dog will reside, signs a false affidavit with respect to a dangerous dog's
death or change of location where the dog will reside, or fails to disclose
ownership of a dangerous dog to a property owner from whom the person rents
property is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by up to a $1,000 fine and/or
90 days in jail.
      (5)   A person who is convicted of a second or subsequent violation of
M.S. §§ 347.55(a) or (b) is guilty of a gross misdemeanor, which is punishable
by a fine of $3,000 and/or 365 days in jail.
      (6)   An owner who violates M.S. § 347.542, subdivision 1, is guilty of a
gross misdemeanor, which is punishable by a fine of $3,000 and/or 365 days in
jail.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-12-2020)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances Generally
   
92.01   Public nuisance
   
92.02   Public nuisances affecting health
   
92.03   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
92.04   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
92.05   Nuisance parking and storage
   
92.06   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
92.07   Building maintenance and appearance
   
92.08   Duties of city officers
   
92.09   Abatement
   
92.10   Recovery of cost
Weeds
   
92.35   Short title
   
92.36   Jurisdiction
   
92.37   Definitions; exclusions
   
92.38   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
92.39   Filing complaint
   
92.40   Notice of violations
   
92.41   Appeals
   
92.42   Abatement by city
   
92.43   Liability
NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 92.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   A person must not act, or fail to act in a manner that is or causes a public
nuisance. For purpose of this chapter, a person who does any of the following
is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or §§
92.01,
92.03 or
92.04, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance and for which no
sentence is specifically provided.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease;
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license; and
   (L)   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized and permitted by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place. For the purposes of this
section INTOXICATING LIQUOR shall mean any ethyl alcohol, distilled, fermented,
spirituous, vinous or malt beverage containing more than ½% alcohol by volume;
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as they may
be amended from time to time which are hereby incorporated by reference into
this code;
   (E)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all terrain vehicle, snowmobile or any recreational device
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
   (F)   The using or operation or permitting the using or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or
other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly
audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person
nearby. Operation of any device referred to above between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line
of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50
feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of violation of this section;
   (G)   No person shall participate in any party or other gathering of people
giving rise to noise, unreasonably disturbing the peace, quiet, or repose of
another person. When a police officer determines that a gathering is creating
such a noise disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than
the owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to
disperse immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a
police officer to do so. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has
knowledge of the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the
disturbance is stopped;
   (H)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (I)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (J)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (K)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (L)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (M)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (N)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (O)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (P)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (Q)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (R)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (S)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (T)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (U)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.
   (V)   (1)   Noises prohibited.  
         (a)   General prohibition. No person shall make or cause to be made
any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or welfare of
any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property’s
value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of
this section.
         (b)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person shall use any vehicle so
out of repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling, or other noise.
         (c)   Loading, unloading, unpacking. No person shall create loud or
excessive noise in loading, unloading, or unpacking any vehicle.
         (d)   Radios, phonographs, paging systems, and the like. No person
shall use or operate or permit the use or operation of any radio receiving set,
musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or other device for the
production or reproduction of sound in a distinct and loudly audible manner as
to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of any person nearby.
Operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or other device
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly
audible at the property line of the structure or building in which it is
located, in the hallway or apartment adjacent, or at a distance of 50 feet if
the source is located outside a structure or building, shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
         (e)   Schools, churches, hospitals, and the like. No person shall
create any excessive noise on a street, alley or public grounds adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, church or hospital when the noise unreasonably
interferes with the working of the institution or disturbs or unduly annoys its
occupants or residents and when conspicuous signs indicate the presence of such
institution.
      (2)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
         (a)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or
other similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
         (b)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or
refuse in any residential district except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on
any weekend or holiday.
         (c)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
      (3)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person
applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any
structure, operation, process, installation or alteration or project that may
be considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the Council. It shall evaluate each such statement and take
its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or permit
applied for or the zoning change requested.
   (W)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and one footcandle when
abutting any commercial or industrial parcel.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it (a) obstructs views on streets and private property, (b)
creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas, (c) prevents the full use of
residential streets for residential parking, (d) introduces commercial
advertising signs into areas where commercial advertising signs are otherwise
prohibited, (e) decreases adjoining landowners’ and occupants’ enjoyment of
their property and neighborhood, and (f) otherwise adversely affects property
values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of ice fish houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses or other similar non-permanent
structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front-yard area
of residential property unless more than 100 feet back from the front property
line.
      (2)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery, or similar materials, including all
materials used in connection with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or fence.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements:
         (a)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be
parked or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of nonresidential characteristics of
the property. This maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional
guests who do not reside on the property.
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front-yard
area must be on a paved or graveled parking surface or driveway area.
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Declaration of a nuisance. Any motor vehicles described in this
section constitute a hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of the
community in that such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter
and breeding place for vermin and present physical danger to the safety and
well-being of children and citizens; and vehicles containing fluids which, if
released into the environment, can and do cause significant health risks to the
community.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store or abandon any motor vehicle
which is not in operating condition, partially dismantled, used for repair of
parts or as a source of repair or replacement parts for other vehicles, kept
for scrapping, dismantling or salvage of any kind, or which is not properly
licensed for operation with the state, pursuant to M.S. § 168.13, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in a building
and/or kept out of view from any street, road or alley, and which does not
foster complaint from a resident of the city. A privacy fence is permissible.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences and other structures that
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they (a) are unsightly, (b) decrease adjoining landowners and
occupants' enjoyment of their property and neighborhood, and (c) adversely
affect property values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Standards. A building, fence or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.
      (2)   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked, chipped or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:
         (a)   Any one wall or other flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters, and similar
projections on any one side or surface.
      (3)   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, may be
broken or cracked, and no screens may be torn or separated from moldings.
      (4)   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
      (5)   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay or dormer windows and
similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from cracks and
defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.
      (6)   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that admit water.
All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly.
      (7)   Chimneys, antennae, air vents, and other similar projections must
be structurally sound and in good repair. These projections must be secured
properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
      (8)   Foundations must be structurally sound and in good repair.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   For purposes of §§
92.08 and
92.09, the Police Department, or Sheriff or person designated by the City
Council under §
10.20, if the city has at the time no Police Department, may enforce the
provisions relating to nuisances. Any peace officer or designated person shall
have the power to inspect private premises and take all reasonable precautions
to prevent the commission and maintenance of public nuisances. Except in
emergency situations of imminent danger to human life and safety, no police
officer or designated person shall enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission of the owner,
resident or other person in control of the property, unless the officer or
person designated has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry, as provided in §
10.20.
§ 92.09 ABATEMENT.
   (A)    Any nuisance defined under §§
92.01 through
92.07, excluding any structure included under the provisions of M.S. §§ 463.15
through 463.26, may be removed, corrected, or eliminated from private property
through summary abatement as set forth in the following divisions:
      (1)   Whenever the City Clerk or a city peace officer determines that a
public nuisance is being maintained or exists on private property in the city,
the City Clerk or peace officer shall notify in writing, the record owner and
occupant, if any, of the real property of such fact and order the nuisance to
be terminated and abated.
      (2)   The notice shall be served in person or by certified mail. If the
property is unoccupied and the location of the owner is unknown, the notice may
be served by posting it on the property. The notice shall specify the steps
necessary to abate the nuisance. The notice must also provide a reasonable
deadline, not exceeding 20 days, for the nuisance to be abated.
      (3)   If the notice is not complied with, a report shall be submitted to
or by the City Clerk, and a hearing by the City Council or an impartial hearing
officer shall be set. The owner or occupant shall be provided with at least ten
days' notice of the hearing. The hearing notice shall be served on the owner or
occupant in the same manner, as provided in division (A)(2) of this section.
For posted notice of the hearing, 30 days must elapse between the day of
posting and the hearing.
      (4)   At the hearing, the city shall provide the owner or occupant an
opportunity to be heard. After hearing the evidence, the Council of hearing
officer may issue findings of fact and an order providing for the city to abate
the nuisance. The abatement order shall be executed as soon as practicable
thereafter under the supervision of a peace officer.
      (5)   Any abatement order issued by the Council may be appealed to the
Nicollet County District Court if the appeal is filed within ten days of the
order. Any properly filed appeal shall be limited to the issue of cost recovery
by the city.
      (6)   Any motor vehicle removed from private property shall be impounded
and disposed of in accordance with M.S. Chapter 168B, as amended. Any other
personal property removed from private property, which in the opinion of the
supervising peace officer, has more than nominal fair market value, shall be
photographed and inventoried, and written notice of the property removed shall
be posted on the property. The property may be reclaimed by the record owner of
the real property, within 30 days of removal, only after payment of the city's
cost of removal and storage fees, which shall be the same as the vehicle
impound fee per day. If any property remains unclaimed after 30 days, it may be
sold or disposed of by the city without further notice.
   (B)   Any charges incurred by the city in abating, removing, correcting or
eliminating from private property a nuisance as described in §§
92.01 through
92.07, may be collected as provided in M.S. § 429.101 and City Code §
92.10. Such charges may include any actual costs incurred by the city,
including, but not limited to, administrative, legal, engineering, and
inspection and monitoring expenses, in connection with the abatement of the
nuisance.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement.
      (1)   In cases of emergency, where delay in abatement required to
complete the notice and procedure requirements set forth in divisions (A) and
(B) of this section will permit a continuing nuisance to unreasonably endanger
public health, safety or welfare, the City Council may order summary
enforcement and abate the nuisance.
      (2)   To proceed with summary enforcement, a peace officer shall
determine that a public nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in
the city and that delay in abatement of the nuisance will unreasonably endanger
public health, safety or welfare. The officer shall attempt to notify in
writing the occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance and
of the city's intention to seek summary enforcement and the time and place of
the City Council meeting to consider the question of summary enforcement.
      (3)   The City Council shall determine whether or not the condition
identified in the notice to the owner or occupant is a nuisance, whether public
health, safety or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in abatement
required to complete the procedure set forth in division (A) of this section,
and may order that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If the
nuisance is not immediately terminated or abated, the City Council may order
summary enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
(Ord. 134, passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §§
10.98 and
10.99
§ 92.10 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city or a person who has caused a public nuisance on a property
not owned by that person shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of
the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk or other official shall
prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount
shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk shall,
on or before September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list the
total unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as other charges for
current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101 against each separate lot
or parcel to which the charges are attributable. The City Council may then
spread the charges against the property under that statute and other pertinent
statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection along with
current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten,
as the City Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see §
10.99
WEEDS
§ 92.35 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the “Weed Ordinance”.
(Ord. 134, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 92.36 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or regulation or
county ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
(Ord. 134, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 92.37 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the City Council or designated city
official, in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the subchapter violation
that shall conform to M.S. § 18.83, Subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   MEADOW VEGETATION. Grasses and flowering broad-leaf plants that are native
to, or adapted to, the State of Minnesota, and that are commonly found in
meadow and prairie plant communities, except weeds as defined herein.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal title
or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-of-
way, easement, license or lease.
   WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION.
      (1)   Includes but is not limited to the following:
         (a)   NOXIOUS WEEDS and RANK VEGETATION shall include but not be
limited to: alum (allium), buckthorn, bur cucumber, Canada thistle, corncockle,
cressleaf groundsel, curly dock, dodder, field bindweed, French weed, hairy
whitetop, hedge bindweed, hoary cress, horsenettle, johnsongrass, leafy spurge,
mile-a-minute weed, musk thistle, oxeye daisy, perennial sowthistle, poison
hemlock, purple loosestrife, quackgrass, Russian knapweed, Russian thistle,
serrated tussock, shatter cane, sorghum, wild carrot, wild garlic, wild
mustard, wild onion, wild parsnip;
         (b)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
         (c)   Bushes of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as Berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
         (d)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers,
or other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding six inches;
         (e)   RANK VEGETATION includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth
of annuals and perennial plants;
         (f)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants
or crops.
         (g)   Any other weed designated by M.S. § 18.77, Subd. 8, or Minn.
Rules as they may be amended from time to time, as noxious.
      (2)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which
have been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
(Ord. 134, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 92.38 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting, or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in
excess of 12 inches in height.
   (B)   These provisions shall not apply to an area established with meadow
vegetation if:
      (1)   The prior vegetation is eliminated and the meadow vegetation is
planted through transplanting or seed by human or mechanical means; and
      (2)   A sign is posted on the property in a location likely to be seen by
the public, advising that a meadow or prairie is being established. This sign
must be no smaller than ten inches square, no larger than one square foot, and
no higher than three feet tall.
(Ord. 134, passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §§
10.98 and
10.99
§ 92.39 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the City Clerk. If the city makes the complaint, an employee,
officer or Council Member of the city shall file the complaint in all respects
as set out above.
(Ord. 134, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 92.40 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds, grasses, or
rank vegetation, as defined by §
92.37, a person designated by the City Council shall make an inspection of the
property. If the person designated by the City Council concludes that there is
a probable belief that this subchapter has been violated, the person shall
issue a written notification in the form of a destruction order to the property
owner, and the person occupying the property if different from the property
owner, as that information is contained within the records of the City Clerk or
any other city or county agency. The notice shall be served in writing by
certified mail or personal service. The notice shall provide that within seven
calendar days after the receipt of the notice that the designated violation
shall be removed by the property owner or person occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the City Clerk.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the City Clerk or others is deemed filed on
the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
   (C)   Notices for subsequent violations within the same calendar year may be
made by posting upon the property and first-class mail to the address listed in
the county property tax records.
(Ord. 134, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 92.41 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the City Council within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and
holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the City Council. It is
the property owner's responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question
is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not otherwise in violation
of this subchapter, and should not be subject to destruction under the
subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council Members in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
   (C)   A properly filed appeal for subsequent violations within the same
calendar year shall be limited to the issue of cost recovery by the city.
(Ord. 134, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 92.42 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
destruction order within seven calendar days and has not filed a notice within
48 hours to the City Clerk of an intent to appeal, the City Council may employ
the services of city employees or outside contractors and remove the weeds to
conform to this subchapter by all lawful means. No person shall enter the
property to abate the nuisance, except with the permission of the owner,
resident or other person in control of the property.
(Ord. 134, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 92.43 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorney's
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the city uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Clerk and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for expenses and
costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 134, passed 9-13-2021)
CHAPTER 93: OUTDOOR BURNING
Section
   
93.01   State rules on open burning
   
93.02   Open burning permits
   
93.03   Leaf burning
   
93.04   Outdoor furnaces
   
93.05   Violations
§ 93.01 STATE RULES ON OPEN BURNING.
   The State Pollution Control Agency is adopted by reference pursuant to M.S.
§ 471.62, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 100, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 OPEN BURNING PERMITS.
   (A)   A recreational fire of not more than three feet in diameter or more
than three feet high shall not be considered an open burning and no permit
shall be required; provided, however, that:
      (1)   The ground surrounding a recreational fire must be clear of
combustible materials for a radius of five feet around the fire;
      (2)   Only vegetative fuels such as leaves, brush and wood may be burned;
and
      (3)   The recreational fire must be attended to at all times.
   (B)   The following materials shall not be burned:
      (1)   Tires, rubber or rubber products;
      (2)   Chemically treated lumber;
      (3)   Railroad ties, telephone poles and other creosote-treated wood;
      (4)   Plastic liners from the baas of seed, feed or pesticide;
      (5)   Plastic pesticide or herbicide containers;
      (6)   Plastic containers such as milk, motor oil, household or other
containers;
      (7)   Tar paper, shingles or other asphalt material;
      (8)   Insulation and materials containing asbestos;
      (9)   Composition board or sheet rock;
      (10)   Wiring, insulation on wiring, or cable;
      (11)   Hazardous waste (including household hazardous waste);
      (12)   Commercial or institutional structures;
      (13)   Paint or paint filters;
      (14)   Used motor oil or other petroleum-base liquids; and
      (15)   Vehicles, motors or parts of vehicles or motors.
(Ord. 100, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 LEAF BURNING.
   (A)   No leaf burning shall be permitted, except during the months of
October and November.
   (B)   Leaf burning shall be subject to the following limitations.
      (1)   Dried leaves may be burned between October 1 and November 30 of
each year between sunrise and sunset.
      (2)   Leaves may not be ignited or burned on the land of another without
the permission of the owner thereof or his or her agent.
      (3)   Leaves may not be burned or ignited on any publicly owned or
controlled lot or parcel of land, bridge, street, sidewalk, undesignated area
or other public place which has not been set aside by public authorities for
that purpose.
      (4)   No leaf burning will take place during an air pollution alert,
warning or emergency declared by the State Pollution Control Agency.
      (5)   No leaf burning may take place during a high wind or when a traffic
hazard might be created thereby in any nearby street or highway.
      (6)   No burning shall take place without an adult attendant present.
      (7)   No leaf burning shall be permitted or conducted when prohibited by
the Fire Chief.
      (8)   No running fires shall be allowed.
      (9)   Fire-extinguishing equipment, such as a garden hose connected to
the water supply, must be readily available for use until the fire is
extinguished.
(Ord. 100, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 OUTDOOR FURNACES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHIMNEY. Any flue that carries off exhaust from an outdoor furnace’s
firebox or burn chamber.
      EXISTING OUTDOOR FURNACE. An outdoor furnace that was installed and put
into use prior to the effective date of this chapter.
      NATURAL WOOD. Wood that has not been painted, varnished or coated with a
similar material, has not been pressure-treated with preservatives, and does
not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood products.
      OUTDOOR FURNACE. Any equipment, device, appliance or apparatus, or any
part thereof, which is installed, affixed or situated outdoors for the primary
purpose of combustion of fuel to produce heat or energy used as a component of
a heating system providing heat for any interior space or water source.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   This section applies to the use of all outdoor furnaces within the
city.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the following:
         (a)   Grilling or cooking food using charcoal, wood, propane or
natural gas in cooking or grilling appliances;
         (b)   Burning for the purpose of generating heat in a stove, furnace,
fireplace or other heating device within a building used for human or animal
habitation;
         (c)   The use of propane, acetylene, natural gas, gasoline or kerosene
in a device intended for heating, construction or maintenance activities; or
         (d)   The use of recreational fires as defined and regulated in M.S. §
507.02, Subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Conditional use permit required for new outdoor furnaces.
      (1)   No outdoor furnace may be newly installed or used without a
conditional use permit issued by the city.
      (2)   The permit shall specify that:
         (a)   The furnace shall meet or exceed emission standards currently
recommended by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and shall be
laboratory tested and listed to appropriate safety standards such as UL, CAN/
CSA, ANSI or other applicable safety standards;
         (b)   The furnace shall be constructed, established, installed,
operated and maintained in conformance with the manufacturer’s instructions and
the requirements of the conditional use permit. In the event of a conflict, the
requirements of this chapter shall apply unless the manufacturer’s instructions
are stricter, in which case the manufacturer’s instructions shall apply;
         (c)   The furnace shall have a setback of at least 25 feet from the
property line. It shall be located on the property in compliance with
manufacturer’s requirements for clearance to combustible materials;
         (d)   The furnace shall have a chimney high enough to minimize the
likelihood that smoke will adversely affect building occupants or neighbors.
The chimney shall extend at least two feet above the peak of the building it
serves or at least two feet above the peak of any building that is within 100
feet of the furnace, whichever is greater;
         (e)   The outdoor furnace shall burn only clean dry natural wood, wood
pellets, corn products, biomass pellets or other fuels specifically permitted
by the manufacturer’s instructions, such as fuel oil, natural gas or propane
backup;
         (f)   Corn or pelletized fuel shall at all times be stored in
securely-covered locked bins or enclosures so as to prevent the attraction of
rodents or other vermin; and
         (g)   Additional requirements may be imposed as appropriate for the
location and circumstances.
   (D)   Existing outdoor furnaces.
      (1)   Existing outdoor furnaces may be used without a conditional use
permit only if constructed, established, installed, operated and maintained in
conformance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
      (2)   Existing outdoor furnaces shall burn only clean dry natural wood,
wood pellets, corn products, biomass pellets or other fuels specifically
permitted by the manufacturer’s instructions, such as fuel oil, natural gas or
propane backup.
      (3)   Corn or pelletized fuel shall at all times be stored in securely
covered and locked bins or enclosures so as to prevent the attraction of
rodents or other vermin.
      (4)   Any modification or replacement of an existing outdoor furnace
requires a conditional use permit as in division (C) above.
(Ord. 100, passed - -2008)
§ 93.05 VIOLATIONS.
   Failure to adhere to the requirements of this chapter or to the requirements
of a permit or conditional use permit authorized under this chapter are hereby
declared to be a misdemeanor, and the owner or operator of the open fire or
outdoor furnace may be subject to one or more of the following penalties:
   (A)   Criminal prosecution. Each infraction may be deemed to constitute a
separate violation; and/or
   (B)   Revocation of conditional use permit.
(Ord. 100, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
      
113.   ADULT USES
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
110.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
110.04   License ineligibility
   
110.05   License suspension and revocation
   
110.06   License transferability
   
110.07   Registration
   
110.08   Prohibited activities
   
110.09   Exclusion by placard
   
110.10   Effectiveness
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to- street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personal property that the person is carrying or
otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
“hawker.”
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the city hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street- to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the
same as the term “canvasser.”
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal
property and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for
more than 14 consecutive days.
§ 110.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person
selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold by
the wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales, or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS,
as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or
any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict
door-to-door advocacy. Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as solicitors under §
110.07. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and
other ideas.
§ 110.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S. Ch.
329, as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a license for
the
activity.
   (B)   City license required. Pursuant to M.S. § 437.02, as it may be amended
from time to time, except as otherwise provided for by this chapter, no person
shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient merchant without
first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need not be licensed,
but are still required to register pursuant to §
110.07.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business operations in the
city. Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the City
Council and available from the office of the City Clerk. All applications shall
be signed by the applicant. All applications shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Applicant’s full legal name.
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers.
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like).
      (4)   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence.
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant’s permanent residence.
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent.
      (7)   Full address of applicant's regular place of business (if any).
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant,
including cellular phones and facsimile (fax) machines.
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license.
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license.
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city, with a maximum 14 consecutive
days.
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business.
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses.
      (14)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant.
      (15)   Proof of any required county license.
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant.
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided.
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council.
      (19)   The applicant’s driver’s license number or other acceptable form
of identification.
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number (VIN) for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business, and a physical description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Clerk, within two regular business days, must
determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to be
complete only if all required information is provided. If the City Clerk
determines that the application is incomplete, the City Clerk must inform the
applicant of the required necessary information that is missing. If the
application is complete, the City Clerk must order any investigation, including
background checks, necessary to verify the information provided with the
application. Within ten regular business days of receiving a complete
application the City Clerk must issue the license unless there exist grounds
for denying the license under §
110.04, in which case the Clerk must deny the license application. If the City
Clerk denies the license application, the applicant must be notified in writing
of the decision, the reason for denial, and of the applicant’s right to appeal
the denial by requesting, within 20 days of receiving notice of rejection, a
public hearing before the City Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal
within 20 days of the date of the request for a public hearing. The decision of
the City Council following the public hearing can be appealed by petitioning
the Minnesota Court of Appeals for a writ of certiorari.
   (E)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted to
peddlers and transient merchants under this chapter shall be valid only during
the time period indicated on the license.
   (F)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or other type of
place-to-place movement when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that
person's State or Federal Constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech,
press, religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the
person's exercise of Constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license.
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application.
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person's
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner. Those violations shall include but not be limited to
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and
any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person.
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant.
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than three complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Office of the Minnesota Attorney General, or other state attorney
general’s office, or other similar business or consumer rights office or
agency, within the preceding 12 months, or three complaints filed against the
applicant within the preceding five years.
§ 110.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Subsequent knowledge by the city of fraud, misrepresentation or
incorrect statements provided by the applicant on the application form.
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity.
      (3)   Subsequent conviction of any offense for which granting of a
license could have been denied under §
110.04.
      (4)   Engaging in prohibited activity as provided under §
110.08.
      (5)   Violation of any other provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person’s authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk within ten regular
business days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with
the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall
be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a
public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be
scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within three regular
business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person's license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 REGISTRATION.
   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements of
this chapter under §
110.03, shall be required to register with the city. Persons engaging in door-
to-door advocacy shall not be required to register. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR
ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and pamphleteering as vehicles for
the dissemination of religious, political and other ideas. Registration shall
be made on the same form required for a license application, but no fee shall
be required. Immediately upon completion of the registration form, the City
Clerk shall issue to the registrant a Certificate of Registration as proof of
the registration. Certificates of Registration shall be non- transferable.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall conduct business in any of
the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure.
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-of-way.
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public.
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person.
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person.
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conducting business in a manner a reasonable person would find
obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least four inches long and four
inches wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating “No Peddlers,
Solicitors or Transient Merchants,” or “Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient
Merchants Prohibited,” or other comparable statement. No person other than the
property owner or tenant shall remove, deface or otherwise tamper with any sign
or placard under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.10 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The provisions of §§
110.01,
110.02,
110.08 and
110.09 shall automatically apply upon adoption of this chapter. Sections
110.03,
110.04,
110.05,
110.06 and
110.07 shall not be effective until the adoption of a City Council resolution
or ordinance authorizing the licensing of persons covered by those sections.
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Short title
   
111.02   Adoption of state law by reference
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Findings
Alcohol Regulations
   
111.15   Municipal liquor store abolished
   
111.16   Consumption in public places
   
111.17   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
111.18   Term and expiration of licenses
   
111.19   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
111.20   License fees; pro rata
   
111.21   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
111.22   Application for license
   
111.23   Description of premises
   
111.24   Applications for renewal
   
111.25   Transfer of license
   
111.26   Investigation
   
111.27   Hearing and issuance
   
111.28   Restrictions on issuance
   
111.29   Conditions of license
   
111.30   Hours and days of sale
   
111.31   Minors on premises
   
111.32   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
111.33   Suspension and revocation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Ordinance for
Liquor Licensing and Regulation”, except as referred to herein, where it shall
be known as “this chapter”.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 111.02 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of
the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if
they had been in existence at the time this chapter is adopted.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, for the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   LIQUOR. Without modification by the words “intoxicating” or “3.2% malt”,
includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes all outdoor places owned by or open to the general
public and all buildings and enclosed places owned by or open to the general
public, including the places of entertainment, taverns, restaurants, clubs,
theaters, dance halls, banquet halls, party rooms or halls limited to specific
members, restricted to adults or to patrons invited to attend, whether or not
an admission charge is levied.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a RESTAURANT as
defined by this term in this chapter, an establishment shall have a license
from the state as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to
time, and meet the definition of either a “small establishment”, “medium
establishment” or “large establishment” as defined in M.S. § 157.16,
subdivision 3d, as it may be amended from time to time. An establishment which
serves prepackaged food that receives heat treatment and is served in the
package or frozen pizza that is heated and served, shall not be considered to
be a RESTAURANT for purposes of this chapter unless it meets the definitions of
“small establishment”, “medium establishment” or “large establishment”.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 111.04 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The city has operated an on- and off-sale municipal liquor store.
   (B)   The City Council has determined it in the public interest to abolish
municipal liquor.
   (C)   The City Council believes that limiting the number of licensed liquor
establishments as an adjustment period after the abolishment of municipal
liquor is in the public’s interest.
   (D)   The City Council wishes to protect the health and safety of youth by
furthering the enforcement of the prohibition against sales to underage people.
   (E)   The City Council desires to protect the public health, safety and
welfare generally and to preserve the desirability of its residential
neighborhoods and business districts specifically.
   (F)   The City Council finds it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety and general welfare of the people of the city to prohibit nudity
on the premises of any establishment licensed under this chapter. This is to
protect and assist the owners, operators and employees of the establishment, as
well as patrons and the public in general, from harm stemming from the physical
immediacy and combination of alcohol, nudity and sex.
      (1)   The Council especially intends to prevent any subliminal
endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to lead to the
possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution, sexual assault
and disorderly conduct.
      (2)   The Council also finds that the prohibition of nudity on the
premises of any establishment licensed under this chapter, as set forth in this
section, reflects the prevailing community standards of the city.
   (G)   The city relies on the County Sheriff’s Department for law
enforcement. The City Council believes that additional licensed liquor
establishments, particularly those with on-premises liquor licenses, would be
beyond the city’s ability to adequately service.
   (H)   M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be amended from time to time, authorizes
the city to enact local regulations of the sale and possession of alcoholic
beverages more restrictive than the regulations set forth in M.S. Chapter 340A,
as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002)
ALCOHOL REGULATIONS
§ 111.15 MUNICIPAL LIQUOR STORE ABOLISHED.
   Ordinance No. 33, “An Ordinance Establishing a Liquor Dispensary (on-sale
and off-sale) and providing certain regulations therefor”, dated January 2,
1947, as amended on February 6, 1947, is hereby repealed. The on- and off-sale
municipal liquor store is hereby abolished; effective July 31, 2002.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 111.16 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in a
public park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley, or in any
public place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed under this
chapter or where the consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted.
   (B)   Consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor at the City
Community Center with the mini-park or at the Legion Picnic Shelter is allowed
without a permit if the consumption is in conjunction with a private event, not
open to the public and does not involve the sale of intoxicating liquor or 3.2%
malt liquor. In those instances, other provisions of this chapter remain
applicable.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.17 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   (A)   The city shall issue no more than one on-sale, or combination on- and
off-sale, intoxicating liquor license prior to, and including, December 31,
2003.
   (B)   The city shall issue no more than four on-sale, or combination on- and
off-sale, intoxicating liquor licenses after December 31, 2003.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.18 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year. All
licenses shall expire on the same date. Temporary licenses expire according to
their terms. Consumption and display permits issued by the Commissioner of
Public Safety, and the accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on
March 31 of each year.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 111.19 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   (A)   The 3.2% malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to
restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers and establishments used exclusively
for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of tobacco and soft
drinks;
   (B)   The 3.2% malt liquor off-sale license;
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious or nonprofit organization;
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994;
   (E)   General on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to
the following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling
centers, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, and
exclusive liquor stores.
      (1)   Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety.
      (2)   The Council may, in its sound discretion, authorize a retail on-
sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at a
community festival held within the city under the provisions of M.S. §
340A.404, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   The Council may, in its sound discretion, authorize a retail on-
sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention or cultural facility owned by the city, under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4a, as it may be amended from time to
time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating liquor
to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event being
held on the premises.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant, as defined in
§
111.03, club, bowling center or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food;
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses if the city
has a population less than 10,000;
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least three years. No license shall be for
longer than four consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12
days worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year;
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25 guests at
one time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, subdivision 5, as it may be
amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
111.03; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.401, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time. The holder of
an on-sale wine license who also holds an on sale 3.2% malt liquor license is
authorized to sell malt liquor with a content over 3.2% (strong beer) without
an additional license; and
   (J)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.20 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The fee for an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license shall be $90. The
Council may, in its sound discretion, issue a seasonal on-sale 3.2% malt liquor
license with a fee prorated on a monthly basis.
   (C)   The fee for an off-sale 3.2% malt liquor license shall be $25.
   (D)   The fee for a temporary 3.2% malt liquor license shall be $5 per day.
   (E)   The fee for an off-sale intoxicating liquor license shall be $100.
   (F)   The fee for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall be $1400.
   (G)   The fee for a club license shall not exceed the amount provided for in
M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 2(b), as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The fee for a Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor license, if allowed
by proper voter approval, shall be $200.
   (I)   The fee for a combination on- and off-sale intoxicating liquor license
shall be $1,500.
   (J)   The fee for a temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall be
$25 per day.
   (K)   The fee for an on-sale wine license shall be $700.
   (L)   The additional fee for a consumption and display permit shall be $200.
Single day consumption and display permits shall be $25.
   (M)   The Council may establish from time to time by ordinance the fee for
any of the liquor licenses it is authorized to issue. The license fee may not
exceed the cost of issuing the license and other costs directly related to the
enforcement of the liquor laws and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be
increased without providing mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase
to all affected licensees at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (N)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a monthly basis.
   (O)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (P)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 111.21 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 111.22 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant’s age, representations as to the applicant’s
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of Public
Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 111.23 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 111.24 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 45 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 111.25 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 111.26 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on sale intoxicating liquor license or an on sale wine
license.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 111.27 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 111.28 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (C)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 111.29 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (B)   Every licensee shall allow, without a warrant, any peace officer,
health officer, city employee or any other person designated by the Council to
conduct compliance checks and to otherwise enter, inspect and search the
premises of the licensee during business hours and after business hours during
the time when customers remain on the premises.
   (C)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts and genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.30 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   No person shall consume, nor shall any on-sale licensee permit, any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any table,
bar, stool or other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes
after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.31 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be employed
as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing services
in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multipurpose building
serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may be present a licensed
establishment after 9:00 pm except to work, consume meals on premises that
qualify as a restaurant, or attend social functions that are held in a portion
of the premises where liquor is not sold.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.32 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.33 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor, as provided in division (B) below. Except in cases of lapse of proof
of financial responsibility, no suspension or revocation shall take effect
until the licensee has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to
the Administrative Procedures Act, being M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as it may be
amended from time to time. The Council may act as the hearing body under that
act, or it may contract with the office of Hearing Examiners for a hearing
officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, or any
rules promulgated under that Chapter as they may be amended from time to time.
Revocations shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which the
revocation is imposed.
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, or sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2% malt liquor, the license
shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) above that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows.
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, at least
one day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any three-year period, at least
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within ten days.
Any suspension under this paragraph shall continue until the Council determines
that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this chapter
have again been met.
   (D)   The provisions of §
111.99 pertaining to criminal and civil penalties may be imposed in addition to
or in lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Chapter
340A, as it may be amended from time to time, or any rules promulgated under
that Chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished
as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of
this chapter as provided by the minimum schedule of presumptive civil
penalties. These civil penalties shall be in addition to any criminal penalties
imposed under division (A) above or any suspension or revocation imposed under
§
111.33. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in order
for the Council to impose the civil penalty.
      (1)   A hearing under the Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to
14.70, as it may be amended from time to time, is not required before the
penalty is imposed, but the Council shall hold a hearing on the proposed
violation and the proposed penalty and hear any person who wishes to speak.
Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for suspension or revocation of the
license.
      (2)   The following is the minimum schedule of presumptive civil
penalties in addition to any suspensions which must be imposed unless the
license is revoked:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period: $500;
         (b)   For the second violation within any three-year period: $1,000;
and
         (c)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period: $2,000 for each violation.
   (C)   The term VIOLATION as used in this section and in §
111.33 includes any and all violations of the provisions of this chapter, or of
M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, or any rules
promulgated under that chapter, as they may be amended from time to time. The
number of violations shall be determined on the basis of the history of
violations for the preceding three-year period.
(Ord. 90, passed 7-8-2002)
CHAPTER 112: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Permit procedure
   
112.03   Restoration and relocation
   
112.04   Company default
   
112.05   Indemnification
   
112.06   Other conditions of use
   
112.07   Applicability to existing facilities
   
112.08   Acceptance of requirements
   
112.09   Public ground other than right-of-way
   
112.10   Regulations; permit schedules
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPANY. A natural or corporate person, business association, political
subdivision, public or private agency of any kind, its successors and assigns,
who or which seeks or is required to construct, install, operate, repair,
maintain, remove or relocate facilities in the city.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works (or equivalent position at the city)
or designated representative.
   FACILITIES. Telecommunications equipment of any kind, including, but not
limited to, audio, video, paging, facsimile or similar service, not governed by
M.S. Chapter 238, as it may be amended from time to time, including all trunks,
lines, circuits, physical connections, switching equipment, wireless
communication equipment of all kinds, and any necessary appurtenances owned,
leased or operated by a company on, over, in, under, across or along public
ground.
   PUBLIC GROUND. Highways, roads, streets, alleys, public ways, utility
easements and public grounds in the city.
(Ord. 81, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 112.02 PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Permit required. A company may not construct, install, repair, remove
or relocate facilities, or any part thereof, in, on, over, under or along
public ground without first obtaining a permit from the city.
   (B)   Application. Application for a permit is made to the Director.
   (C)   Issuance of permit. If the Director determines that the applicant has
satisfied the requirements of this chapter, the Director may issue a permit to
the company. An applicant may contest a permit denial or the conditions of
approval by written notice to the Clerk requesting a City Council review within
14 days of the Director’s action. The Council shall hear any contest of the
Director’s actions under this chapter within 45 days of the City Clerk’s
receipt of the contest notice. Nothing in this chapter precludes the city from
requiring a franchise agreement with the applicant, as allowed by law, in
addition to the issuance of a permit set forth herein.
   (D)   Permit fee. The application must be accompanied by the permit fee set
by the City Council by resolution.
   (E)   Security for completion of work. Prior to commencement of work, the
company must deposit with the city security in the form of certified check,
letter of credit or construction bond, in a sufficient amount as determined by
the Director for the completion of the work. The securities will be held until
the work is completed, plus a period of seven months thereafter to guarantee
that restoration work has been satisfactorily completed. Upon application of
the company, providing such information as the Director may require, if two or
more work projects are to be constructed during a calendar year, the Director
may accept, in lieu of separate security for each project, a single security
for multiple projects in such form and amount as determined, in the discretion
of the Director, to be sufficient to assure completion of all projects which
may be in progress at any one time during that calendar year and to guarantee
that restoration work will be satisfactorily completed. The security will then
be returned to the company with interest if required by law and then interest
at the applicable statutory rate.
   (F)   Inspection of work. When the work is completed, the company must
request an inspection by the Director. The Director will determine if the work
has been satisfactorily completed and provide the company with a written report
of the inspection and approval.
(Ord. 81, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 112.03 RESTORATION AND RELOCATION.
   (A)   Restoration. Upon completion of the work, the company must restore the
general area of the work, including paving and its foundations, to the same
condition that existed prior to commencement of the work and must exercise
reasonable care to maintain the same condition for two years thereafter. The
work must be completed as promptly as weather permits. If the company does not
promptly perform and complete the work, remove all dirt, rubbish, equipment and
material, and restore the public ground to the same condition, the city may put
it in the same condition at the expense of the company. The company must, upon
demand, pay to the city the direct and indirect cost of the work done for or
performed by the city, including, but not limited to, the city’s administrative
costs. To recover its costs, the city will first draw on the security posted by
the company and then recover the balance of the costs incurred from the company
directly by written demand. This remedy is in addition to any other remedies
available to the city.
   (B)   Company initiated relocation. The company must give the city written
notice prior to a company initiated relocation of facilities. A company
initiated relocation must be at the company’s expense and must be approved by
the city, the approval not to be unreasonably withheld.
   (C)   City required relocation. The company must promptly and at its own
expense, with due regard for seasonal working conditions, permanently relocate
its facilities whenever the city requires the relocation.
   (D)   Relocation where public ground vacated. The vacation of public ground
does not deprive the company of the right to operate and maintain its
facilities in the city. If the vacation proceedings are initiated by the
company, the company must pay the relocations costs. If the vacation
proceedings are initiated by the city or other persons, the company must pay
the relocation costs unless otherwise agreed to by the city, company and other
persons.
(Ord. 81, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 112.04 COMPANY DEFAULT.
   (A)   Notice. If the company is in default in the performance of the work
authorized by the permit, including, but not limited to, restoration
requirements, for more than 30 days after receiving written notice from the
city of the default, the city may terminate the rights of the company under the
permit. The notice of default must be in writing and specify the provisions of
the permit under which the default is claimed and state the grounds of the
claim. The notice must be served on the company by personally delivering it to
an officer thereof at its principal place of business in the state or by
certified mail to that address.
   (B)   City action on default. If the company is in default in the
performance of the work authorized by the permit, the city may, after the above
notice to the company and failure of the company to cure the default, take
action as may be reasonably necessary to abate the condition caused by the
default. The company must reimburse the city for the city’s reasonable costs,
including costs of collection and attorney fees incurred as a result of the
company default. The security posted under §
112.02(E) will be applied by the city first toward payment for the
reimbursement.
(Ord. 81, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 112.05 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Scope. The company will indemnify, keep and hold the city, its elected
officials, officers, employees and agents free and harmless from any and all
claims and actions on account of injury or death of persons or damage to
property occasioned by the construction, installation, maintenance, repair,
removal, relocation or operation of the facilities affecting public ground,
unless the injury or damage is the result of the negligence of the city, its
elected officials, employees, officers or agents. The city will notify the
company of claims or actions and provide a reasonable opportunity for the
company to accept and undertake the defense.
   (B)   Claim defense. If a claim or action is brought against the city under
circumstances where indemnification applies, the company, at its sole expense,
shall defend the city if written notice of the claim or action is given to the
company within a period wherein the company is not prejudiced in the defense of
the claim or action by lack of the notice. If the company undertakes the
defense, the company shall have complete control of the claim or action, but it
may not settle without the consent of the city, which shall not be unreasonably
withheld. This section is not, as to third parties, a waiver of any defense or
immunity otherwise available to the city. In defending any action on behalf of
the city, the company is entitled to assert every defense or immunity that the
city could assert in its own behalf.
(Ord. 81, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 112.06 OTHER CONDITIONS OF USE.
   (A)   Use of public ground. Facilities must be located, constructed,
installed, maintained or relocated so as not to endanger or unnecessarily
interfere with the usual and customary traffic, travel and use of public
ground. The facilities are subject to additional conditions of the permit as
established by the Director, including, but not limited to: the right of
inspection by the city at reasonable times and places; the obligation to
relocate the facilities pursuant to §
112.03(C) and (D); and compliance with all applicable regulations imposed by
the State Public Utilities Commission and other state and the federal law,
including prompt compliance with the requirements of the Gopher State One Call
program, M.S. Chapter 216D, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Location. The facilities must be placed in a location agreed to by the
city. The company shall give the city 45 days advanced written notice of the
company’s proposed location of facilities within the public ground. No later
than 45 days after the city’s receipt of the company’s written notice, the city
will notify the company in writing of the city’s acceptance or rejection of the
proposed location. If the city rejects the company’s proposed location, the
city shall propose alternative locations. The city does not waive or forfeit
its right to reject the location of facilities by failure to respond within the
45 days.
   (C)   Emergency work. A company may open and disturb the surface of public
ground without a permit where an emergency exists requiring the immediate
repair of its facilities. In the event the company must request a permit not
later than the second working day thereafter and comply with the applicable
conditions of the permit. In no event, may the company undertake such an
activity which will result in the closing of a street or alley without prior
notification to the city.
   (D)   Street improvements, paving or resurfacing. The city will give the
company written notice of plans for street improvements where permanent paving
or resurfacing is involved. The notice must contain: the nature and character
of the improvements; the streets upon which the improvements are to be made;
the extent of the improvements, the time when the city will start the work; and
if more than one street is involved, the sequence in which the work is to
proceed.
   (E)   Company protection of facilities. The company must take reasonable
measures to prevent the facilities from causing damage to persons or property.
The company must take reasonable measures to protect its facilities from damage
that could be inflicted on the facilities by persons, property or the elements.
The company must take specific protective measures when the city performs work
near the facilities.
   (F)   Prior service connections. In cases where the city is undertaking the
paving or resurfacing of streets and the facilities are located under the
street, the company may be required to install service connections prior to the
paving or resurfacing, if it is apparent that service will be required during
the five-year period following the paving or resurfacing.
(Ord. 81, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 112.07 APPLICABILITY TO EXISTING FACILITIES.
   Companies with facilities, in, on, over, under or along public ground on the
effective date of this chapter must take prompt action to comply with this
chapter and the permits authorized by this chapter. A company, however, is not
required to reapply for a permit obtained from the city prior to the effective
date of this chapter. A company is not required to pay the difference between
the permit fee of a previously obtained permit and the equivalent newly
obtained permit under this chapter. All other provisions of this chapter apply
to existing facilities.
(Ord. 81, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 112.08 ACCEPTANCE OF REQUIREMENTS.
   By receiving a permit pursuant to this chapter, the company accepts and
agrees to comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 81, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 112.09 PUBLIC GROUND OTHER THAN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to grant to the company authority beyond
that given by M.S. § 222.37, as it may be amended from time to time, for use of
the public rights-of-way for construction and operation of facilities. If the
city allows the company to use its non-right-of-way public ground, the terms of
this chapter apply to the extent they are consistent with the contract,
statutory and common law rights the city own in the property.
(Ord. 81, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 112.10 REGULATIONS; PERMIT SCHEDULES.
   The Director is authorized and directed to prepare suitable regulations and
schedules for the administration of permits issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 81, passed 9-12-1995)
CHAPTER 113: ADULT USES
Section
General Provisions; Licensing
   
113.01   Short title
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   License required
   
113.04   License fees
   
113.05   Term and expiration of license
   
113.06   Application for license
   
113.07   Managerial responsibility
   
113.08   Investigation
   
113.09   Council approval of license
   
113.10   Applications for renewal
   
113.11   Transfer of license
   
113.12   Restrictions on issuance
   
113.13   Appeal of denied license
Conditions of Business License
   
113.25   General conditions
   
113.26   Conditions on physical design
   
113.27   Conditions on live entertainment
   
113.28   Violations; suspension and revocation
Managerial License
   
113.40   License required
   
113.41   License fees
   
113.42   Term and expiration of license
   
113.43   Application for license
   
113.44   Investigation
   
113.45   Council approval of license
   
113.46   Applications for renewal
   
113.47   Transfer of license
   
113.48   Restrictions on issuance
   
113.49   Appeal of denied license
   
113.50   Conditions of license
   
113.51   Violations; suspension and revocation
 
   
113.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Adult use zoning ordinance, see
Chapter 150
GENERAL PROVISIONS; LICENSING
§ 113.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Adult Use
Licensing Ordinance”, except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as
“this chapter”.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A building or portion of a building used for the barter,
rental or sale of items consisting of adult media if the building or portion of
a building is not open to the public generally but only to one or more classes
of the public, excluding any minor by reason of age or if a substantial or
significant portion of such items are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A building or portion of a building used for providing
dancing or other live entertainment, if the building or portion of a building
excludes minors by virtue of age or if the dancing or other live entertainment
is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the presentation, display,
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT MEDIA. Includes printed matter, magazines, newspapers, books,
pictures, slides, records, audio tape, videotape, motion picture trim, compact
discs, digital video discs, floppy discs and other communicative materials
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on the presentation,
display, depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building with
a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material if the
building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by
virtue of age, or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin- or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled or operated still or motor picture machines, projectors
or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer
persons per machine at any on time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building with a
capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material if the building or
portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by virtue of age
or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons therein.
   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has as a principal activity the
sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which are designated
for sexual stimulation.
   ADULT USE, PRIMARY. An adult bookstore, adult cabaret, adult mini-motion
picture theater, adult motion picture arcade, adult motion picture theater,
adult novelty business or any other use, business or establishment meeting any
of the following:
      (1)   Advertising, or otherwise holding itself out, in any forum as
featuring “adult”, “hardcore”, “XXX”, “sex” or otherwise as an adult use,
despite having 10% or less of its stock in trade or floor area allocated to, or
20% or less of its gross receipts derived from adult media rentals or sales for
the customer’s private use off-premises;
      (2)   Having more than 10% of its stock in trade or floor area allocated
to, or more than 20% of its gross receipts derived from adult media rentals or
sales;
      (3)   Providing any form of on-premises entertainment with an emphasis on
the presentation, display, depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (4)   An adult use not meeting the definition of adult use-incidental or
adult use-nonprotected in Chapter 150, the adult use zoning ordinance.
   ADULT USES. Include enterprises, establishments, businesses or places open
to some or all members of the public, at or in which there is an emphasis on
the presentation, display, depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas which are capable of being seen by
members of the public. Licensed or accredited veterinary, medical or
educational establishments shall not be considered ADULT USES.
   LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. An employee, agent or independent contractor of an adult
use-primary, whether or not paid a salary, wages or other compensation, who
performs a dance routine, exhibition or other live performance distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas during
the course of the routine, exhibition or performance.
   PATRON. Any spectator, customer, club member, invitee or member of the
public invited or allowed to attend, whether or not an admission charge or dues
is levied, an adult use-primary for the purpose of viewing, purchasing or
renting an exhibition, performance, presentation, display, depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   PREMISES. The real property upon which the adult use-primary is located, and
all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but not limited to,
the licensed establishment, the grounds, sidewalks and walkways not in the
public right-of-way and parking lots or garages under the ownership, control or
supervision of the adult use-primary.
   PRINCIPAL OWNER(S). Sole proprietor if the business is a sole
proprietorship, all individual partners in a partnership who hold more than a
5% interest in the partnership, the general and/or limited partners in a
limited liability partnership if the partner or limited partner holds more than
a 5% interest in the limited liability partnership, all members of a limited
liability company who hold more than a 5% interest in the limited liability
company, principal stockholders of a corporation (having ownership of more than
5% of outstanding issued shares). In the event no PRINCIPAL OWNER for the
business entity is identified pursuant to the foregoing criteria, the PRINCIPAL
OWNER shall be determined to be the individual or individuals with managerial
decision making power, i.e., the right to hire, fire and enter into contracts
on behalf of the adult use-primary.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitalia, pubic
region, perineum anal region, natal cleft or the nipple and/or areola of the
female breast(s).
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity of a sexual nature; sale, distribution or display of harmful material
to a minor; sexual performance by a child; possession or distribution of child
pornography; public lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; sexual
assault; molestation of a child; or any similar sex-related offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of this state, other states or
other countries.
      (2)   For which:
         (a)   Less than three years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense, or offense
with a maximum penalty of one year or less imprisonment; or
         (b)   Less than ten years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense, or offense with a
maximum penalty of greater than one year imprisonment.
      (3)   Whether or not a conviction is being appealed shall not be
considered in the implementation of this chapter.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexual-oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty,
pygmalionism, urolagia;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus
or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks
or female breast;
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are in a
state of nudity, or clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes,
and who are engaged in activities involving the flagellation, torture,
fettering, binding or other physical restraint of any such persons;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually-oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human erection, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
   STATE OF NUDITY.
      (1)   The showing of the human male or female genitalia, pubic hair,
perineum anal region, or natal cleft with less than a fully opaque covering;
      (2)   The showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple and/or areola;
      (3)   The exposure of any device, costume or covering which gives the
appearance of or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, natal cleft, perineum anal
region or pubic hair region; or
      (4)   The exposure of any device worn as a cover over the nipple and/or
areola of the female breast, which device simulates and gives the realistic
appearance of nipples and/or areola.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to operate an adult use(s)-
primary at any premises without a valid adult use-primary business license
issued by the City Clerk pursuant to this chapter. An adult use(s)-primary
operating without a valid adult use-primary business license shall be
considered a public nuisance and may be abated as such. The applicant or
licensee has an affirmative duty to supplement an application with new
information received subsequent to the date the application was completed or
license was issued.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The fee for an adult use-primary business license is $500. The City
Council may amend from time to time by ordinance the license fee. The license
fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the license and other costs directly
related to the enforcement of this chapter; no license fee shall be increased
without providing mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all
affected licenses at least 45 days before the hearing.
   (B)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.05 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   Each business license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year from
the date of issuance by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.06 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. The form shall be verified and filed with
the city.
      (1)   No person shall make a false statement in an application. In the
event the applicant is an entity, the principal owner(s) shall be considered
the applicant.
      (2)   The following information shall be provided on the application
form:
         (a)   The name, street address (and mailing address if different) of
the applicant(s);
         (b)   The applicant’s state or federally issued tax identification
number;
         (c)   The name under which the adult use-primary is to be operated and
a general description of the services to be provided;
         (d)   If the applicant intends to operate the adult use-primary under
a name other than that of the applicant; he or she must: state the adult use-
primary’s fictitious name; and submit any required registration documents;
         (e)   Whether the applicant has been convicted, or is awaiting trial
on pending charges, of a specified criminal activity and, if so, the specified
criminal activity involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each;
         (f)   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this
chapter or other similar adult use ordinance from another city or county
denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the adult use
for which the business license was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the
date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and whether the applicant is or
has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director or principal
stockholder of a corporation that is or was licensed under an adult use
ordinance whose business license has previously been denied, suspended or
revoked, including the name and location of the adult use for which the
business license was denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of
denial, suspension or revocation;
         (g)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this
chapter or other similar adult use ordinance from another city or county and,
if so, the names and locations of the other licensed businesses;
         (h)   The telephone number of the adult use-primary;
         (i)   The address and legal description of the tract of land on which
the adult use-primary is to be located;
         (j)   If the adult use-primary is in operation, the date on which the
owner(s) acquired the establishment for which the business license is sought,
and the date on which the establishment began operations as an adult use-
primary at the location for which the business license is sought; and
         (k)   If the adult use-primary is not in operation, the expected
startup date and an explanation of the construction, repair or remodeling work
or other cause of the expected delay.
   (B)   Each application for a business license shall be accompanied by the
following:
      (1)   Payment of the application fee in full;
      (2)   If the applicant is a corporation formed under the laws of the
state, a certified copy of the articles of incorporation, together with all
amendments thereto;
      (3)   If the applicant is a foreign corporation, a certified copy of the
certificate of authority to transact business in this state, together with all
amendments thereto;
      (4)   If the applicant is a limited partnership formed under the laws of
the state, a certified copy of the certificate of limited partnership, together
with all amendments thereto;
      (5)   If the applicant is a foreign limited partnership, a certified copy
of the certificate of limited partnership and the qualification documents,
together with all amendments thereto;
      (6)   A current straight-line drawing or survey prepared within 30 days
prior to application depicting the property lines and zoning districts within
300 feet of the property lines of the adult use- primary to be licensed;
      (7)   A current straight-line drawing or blueprint prepared within 30
days prior to application depicting the interior of the premises, clearly
indicating the specific locations of manager station(s), public areas and non-
public areas;
      (8)   A current straight-line drawing prepared within 30 days prior to
application depicting the exterior of the premises, clearly indicating the
specific locations of parking areas and all entrances to the adult use-primary,
whether public or nonpublic; and
      (9)   Any of divisions (B)(2) through (B)(8) above shall not be required
for a renewal application if the applicant states that the documents previously
furnished the City Clerk with the original application or previous renewals
thereof remain correct and current.
   (C)   Attached to the application form for a license shall be the following:
      (1)   A color photograph of the applicant(s) clearly showing the
applicant’s face. Any fees for the photograph(s) shall be paid by the
applicant;
      (2)   A statement detailing the adult use license history of the
applicant for the five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of
the application, including whether the applicant, in this or any other city,
county, state or country, has ever had any similar adult use license, permit or
authorization denied, revoked or suspended. In the event of any such denial,
revocation or suspension, state the name(s) under which the license was sought
and/or issued, the name(s) of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe
in full the reason(s) for the denial, revocation or suspension. A copy of any
order of denial, revocation or suspension shall be attached to the application;
and
      (3)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted, or is
awaiting trial on pending charges, of a specified criminal activity and, if so,
the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of
each.
   (D)   Every application for a license shall contain a statement under oath
that:
      (1)   The applicant has personal knowledge of the information contained
in the application, and that the information contained therein and furnished
therewith is complete, true and correct; and
      (2)   The applicant has personal knowledge of the provisions of this
chapter,
Chapter 150 (the adult use zoning ordinance), and
Chapter 151 (the city zoning ordinance).
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.07 MANAGERIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   Prior to the issuance of an adult use-primary business license, the
applicant shall demonstrate proof of managerial responsibility. Proof of
managerial responsibility shall consist of one or more licensed manager(s) with
valid adult use-primary manager license(s), or complete application for the
license(s). Proof of managerial responsibility is a continuing condition of the
business license.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.08 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background investigation. On an initial application for a
license or transfer of a license, the City Council shall cause to be conducted
a preliminary background investigation. The applicant shall pay with the
application an investigation fee of $500 which shall be in addition to any
license fee. If the cost of the preliminary investigation is less than $500,
the unused portion shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Comprehensive background investigation. If the results of a
preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the City Council,
a comprehensive background investigation, the city may cause to be conducted a
comprehensive background investigation. The investigation fee for this
comprehensive background investigation to be paid by the applicant is $500,
less any amount paid for the preliminary investigation, if the investigation is
to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.09 COUNCIL APPROVAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to §
113.12, the City Council may either grant or deny the initial application,
including transfer, for any license.
   (B)   The City Council shall complete any investigation and make its
decision within 45 days of the city’s receipt of a completed application. No
applicant has a right to a license under this chapter.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.10 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   Applications for renewal shall be made at least 15, and not more than 30,
days before the expiration of a license issued under this chapter. An
application shall be filed with the City Clerk. No background investigation
pursuant to §
113.08. Pursuant to §
113.12, the decision whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound
discretion of the City Council. The City Council shall make its decision within
15 days of the city’s receipt of a completed application. No licensee has a
right to have the license renewed.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.11 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the City Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee resulting in
a change in the principal owners is deemed to be a transfer of the license, and
such a transfer of stock without prior City Council approval is a ground for
revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license shall be
treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the provisions
of this chapter applying to applications for a license shall apply.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.12 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each adult use-primary business license shall be issued only to the
applicant for only the premises described in the application.
   (B)   No adult use-primary business license shall be granted to an
individual, or entity in the event a principal owner, is under the age of 18.
   (C)   No adult use-primary business license shall be granted or renewed for
operation on any premises without evidence of the legally enforceable right of
the owner or proposed owner of the adult use- primary to have or obtain the use
and possession of the tract.
   (D)   No adult use-primary business license shall be granted or renewed for
operation on any premises on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service
charges or other financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (E)   No adult use-primary business license shall be granted or renewed for
operation on any premises located in a zone other than a Commercial Zone.
   (F)   No adult use-primary business license shall be granted or renewed for
operation on any premises located outside the following described area: the
easterly 786 feet of the Northeast 1A of Section 11, Township 111, Range 30
West, excepting the northerly 578 feet therefrom, and also excepting the
southerly 1,000 feet therefrom.
   (G)   No adult use-primary business license shall be granted to an
individual, or an entity in the event one or more principal owner(s), has been
convicted of a specified criminal activity which is a felony.
   (H)   No adult use-primary business license shall be granted to an
individual, or an entity in the event one or more principal owner(s), has been
convicted of specified criminal activities or had similar adult use licenses,
at one or more locations, suspended, denied or revoked, whereby the violations
would exceed ten accumulated points under §
113.28.
   (I)   No adult use-primary business license shall be granted or renewed to
an individual, or an entity in the event one or more principal owner(s), has
had an adult use-primary business license revoked under the provisions of this
chapter within the past five years.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.13 APPEAL OF DENIED LICENSE.
   If the applicant alleges that a license was denied in error, the status quo
will remain in effect pending the outcome of a hearing pursuant to the
Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 through 14.69, as they may be
amended from time to time. The City Council may act as the hearing body under
that act, or it may contract with the office of hearing examiners for a hearing
officer.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
CONDITIONS OF BUSINESS LICENSE
§ 113.25 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the following conditions of the
license specified below shall result in a suspension or revocation of the
license.
   (A)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct within the place of
business. The act of any employee, while on the premises, is deemed the act of
the licensee as well, and the licensee shall be liable to all penalties
provided by this chapter and the law equally with the employee.
   (B)   The licensee is responsible for having the issued adult use-primary
business license posted and clearly visible and readable to the public in a
prominent location.
   (C)   The licensee is responsible for having posted and clearly visible and
readable to the public in a prominent location a sign indicating the following
information:
      (1)   The adult use-primary is licensed by the city;
      (2)   No patron is allowed on a stage, if applicable, or in any area
posted as non-public;
      (3)   No person shall interfere with a peace officer;
      (4)   All patrons must leave the premises within 30 minutes after the
close of hours of operation;
      (5)   Use and possession of controlled substances is prohibited;
      (6)   Sale and consumption of alcohol is prohibited, if applicable;
      (7)   State of nudity is prohibited in public areas, excluding restrooms;
      (8)   Prostitution and solicitation are prohibited;
      (9)   Intercourse, masturbation and other directly physical sexual
stimulation are prohibited; and
      (10)   If applicable, touching between patrons and live entertainment is
prohibited.
   (D)   The licensee is responsible for having entrances to non-public areas
clearly posted or marked as non-public or otherwise held out as off-limits to
patrons.
   (E)   The licensee is responsible for having the issued adult use-primary
manager license(s) for the on duty manager(s) posted and clearly visible and
readable to the public. Any such posted license is deemed evidence that the
manager is on duty and responsible for conduct on the premises.
   (F)   Every licensee shall allow, without a warrant, any peace officer,
health officer, city employee or any other person designated by the City
Council to conduct compliance checks and to otherwise enter, inspect and search
the premises of the licensee during business hours and after business hours
during the time when patrons remain on the premises.
   (G)   One or more manager stations are required to maintain visibility of
all public areas within the adult use-primary.
      (1)   The interior of the adult use-primary shall be configured in such a
manner that there is an unobstructed view from the manager station(s) of the
entire area of the adult use-primary to which any patron is permitted access
for any purpose excluding restrooms. If the adult use-primary has two or more
manager stations designated, then the interior shall be configured in such a
manner that there is an unobstructed view of the every area of the adult use-
primary to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose from at least
one of the manager stations. The view required in this division (G) must be by
direct line of sight from the manager station.
      (2)   A manager station may not exceed 32 square feet in a compact and
contiguous area.
      (3)   It is the duty of the licensee of the adult use-primary to ensure
that at least one licensed manager is on duty and situated in each manager
station at all times that any patron is present inside the adult use-primary.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the licensee, and it shall also be the duty
of any licensed manager present in the adult use-primary, to ensure that the
view area specified in division (G)(1) above remains unobstructed by any doors,
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the licensee, and it shall also be the duty
of any licensed manager present in the adult use-primary, to ensure that no
patron is permitted access to any area of the premises that has been designated
as a non-public area.
   (H)   The adult use-primary shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than five foot-candle as
measured at three feet above floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator,
and it shall also be the duty of any licensed manager present in the adult use-
primary, to ensure that the illumination described above is maintained at all
times that any patron is present in the adult use-primary.
   (I)   The exterior of the premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every parking area, driving
lanes, sidewalks and an area 20 feet in front of all doors at an illumination
of not less than one and one-half foot-candle as measured at the ground. It
shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of any
licensed manager present at the premises, to ensure that the illumination
described above is maintained at all times that any patron is present at the
premises.
   (J)   Hours of operation, open to patrons, are limited to between 8:00 a.m.
and 12:30 a.m. of the subsequent calendar day on Sundays through Thursdays.
   (K)   Hours of operation, open to patrons, are limited to between 8:00 a.m.
and 2:30 a.m. of the subsequent calendar day on Fridays and Saturdays.
   (L)   No patron shall remain on the premises, including parking and other
exterior areas, more than 30 minutes after the close of hours of operation.
   (M)   The possession or use of a controlled substance as defined under M.S.
Chapter 152, as it may be amended from time to time, is prohibited on the
premises.
   (N)   The sale or consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in
violation of
Chapter 111 is prohibited at the adult use-primary.
   (O)   Prostitution, solicitation, inducement or promotion of prostitution,
or coercion of prostitution as defined under M.S. §§ 609.321 to 322 and
611A.80, as they may be amended from time to time, is prohibited on the
premises.
   (P)   No person shall be in a state of nudity in any area of the premises to
which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding restrooms.
   (Q)   Engaging in sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal intercourse,
oral-anal copulation, masturbation, bestiality; direct physical stimulation of
the male or female genitalia, pubic hair, perineum anal region or natal cleft
or the female breast, whether clothed or unclothed; flagellation or torture in
the context of a sexual relationship; use of human or animal ejaculation, or
the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual relationship; and any
of the following sexual-oriented acts or conduct: anilingus, buggery,
coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio, necrophilia, pederasty,
pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty, pygmalionism, urolagia is
prohibited on the premises.
   (R)   The licensee is responsible for maintaining the cleanliness and
sanitary condition of the premises.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.26 CONDITIONS ON PHYSICAL DESIGN.
   (A)   No openings of greater than one square inch or less than four square
feet shall be permitted in any wall or partition adjoining between rooms,
booths or other enclosed or semi-enclosed areas of under 150 square feet.
   (B)   All surfaces within 48 inches of the floor in all rooms, booths or
other enclosed or semi-enclosed areas of under 150 square feet shall be
constructed of, or permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable
material.
   (C)   Restrooms may not contain video transmission or reproduction
equipment.
   (D)   Exterior windows shall be opaque, screened or otherwise maintained to
prevent viewing of merchandise or entertainment from outside the adult use-
primary.
   (E)   Exterior signage shall not include any photograph, drawing, silhouette
or other caricature depicting specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities.
   (F)   An adult use-primary offering live entertainment must have a stage or
surface at least 18 inches above floor level. The stage must have a bar,
railing, fence or similar barrier, with a height between 42 inches and 54
inches, at least 60 inches away from the stage or a solid, floor-to-ceiling
wall, window or similar barrier. The stage and the area between stage and
railing shall be designated a non-public area.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.27 CONDITIONS ON LIVE ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   Live entertainment, whether in a state of nudity or clothed, shall not
touch any patron.
   (B)   No patron shall touch any live entertainment, whether in a state of
nudity or clothed.
   (C)   Live entertainment, whether in a state of nudity or clothed, shall be
performed only upon a stage or surface at least 18 inches above floor level. No
patron shall be allowed on the stage.
   (D)   Live entertainment, whether in a state of nudity or clothed, shall be
performed behind one of the following:
      (1)   A bar, railing, fence or other similar barrier to keep patrons at
least 60 inches away from all parts of the stage. The bar, railing, fence or
other similar barrier shall be at least 42 inches and not more than 54 inches
above floor level; or
      (2)   A solid, floor-to-ceiling wall, window or other similar barrier to
prevent physical contact between patrons and live entertainment. No opening in
the barrier is permitted.
   (E)   Live entertainment, in a state of nudity, is prohibited at a licensed
liquor establishment.
   (F)   The licensee shall keep on file the full name, any aliases, including
stage names, addresses and proof of age of all live entertainment. Such records
shall be maintained for a period of at least three years.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.28 VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall either suspend or revoke any license upon
finding that the licensee has failed to comply with any provision of this
chapter. No suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has
been afforded an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 through 14.69, as they may be amended from time
to time. The City Council may act as the hearing body under that Act, or it may
contract with the office of hearing examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   Points are to be assigned according to the following schedule.
      (1)   Violations meriting five points include commission by the licensee,
or principal owner, of a specified criminal activity that is a misdemeanor,
whether on or off the premises; commission by the licensee, or principal owner,
of use or possession of a controlled substance while on the premises;
revocation of an adult use license issued by another municipality or county;
operation of an adult use- primary without a valid adult use-primary business
license.
      (2)   Violations meriting three points include false statement or
omission in the license application or failure to provide subsequent
information that would not have resulted in the revocation or denial of the
license; non-payment of civil fines imposed under §
113.99; interference with inspections or enforcement; commission by licensed
manager of a specified criminal activity that is a felony while on the
premises; allowing live entertainment under age 18; occurrence of prostitution,
solicitation, inducement or promotion of prostitution or coercion for
prostitution on the premises.
      (3)   Violations meriting two points include commission by any person
other than the licensee, or principal owner, or a licensed manager of a
specified criminal activity that is a felony while on the premises; commission
by a licensed manager of a specified criminal activity that is a misdemeanor
while on the premises; failure to have a licensed manager on duty; allowing a
minor to patronize the adult use- primary; allowing live entertainment in a
prohibited area; allowing the patrons into a non-public area, including
remaining on the premises after hours; allowing prohibited touching between
patron and live entertainment; allowing on the premises sexual intercourse,
oral copulation, anal intercourse, oral-anal copulation, masturbation,
bestiality, direct physical stimulation of the male or female genitalia, pubic
hair, perineum anal region or natal cleft or the female breast, whether clothed
or unclothed, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship,
use of human or animal ejaculation, or the use of excretory functions in the
context of a sexual relationship; failure to maintain visibility or lighting
requirements.
      (4)   Violations meriting one point include suspension of an adult use
license issued by another municipality or county; failure to post license;
failure to post any required signs; failure to maintain required live
entertainment records; failure to maintain physical design requirements;
allowing prohibited sale or consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt
liquor on the premises; failure to maintain cleanliness; commission by any
person other than the licensee, or principal owner, or a licensed manager of a
specified criminal activity that is a misdemeanor while on the premises.
   (C)   Points are cumulative and remain on license, including a renewed
license, for three years. Occurrences continuing for more than one day shall be
considered separate occurrences for each day. Each occurrence of a violation
shall be considered a separate violation; where the occurrence of a single
violation may be assigned more than one point classification under division (B)
above, the greater value shall be assigned. Violations will be cited in writing
with opportunity for appeal. Failure to appeal shall be deemed to indicate no
contest to the charge.
   (D)   (1)   The license shall be suspended by the City Council after a
finding under division (A) above that the licensee has failed to comply with
any provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods below.
      (2)   The City Council shall select the day or days during which the
license will be suspended.
         (a)   For one point, a one-day suspension in addition to any criminal
or civil penalties which may be imposed.
         (b)   For two points accumulated within any three-year period, a three
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (c)   For three points accumulated within any three-year period, a
four consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (d)   For four points accumulated within any three-year period, a
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (e)   For five points accumulated within any three-year period, a ten
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (f)   For six points accumulated within any three-year period, a 14
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (g)   For seven points accumulated within any three-year period, a 21
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (h)   For eight points accumulated within any three-year period, a 28
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (i)   For nine points accumulated within any three-year period, a 35
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (j)   For ten points accumulated within any three-year period, a 42
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
   (E)   (1)   The following are cause for revocation which shall be imposed by
the City Council for violations of the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Revocations shall occur within 60 days following a violation for
which the revocation is imposed.
         (a)   For over ten points violation within any three-year period.
         (b)   For discovery of a false statement or omission in the license
application or failure to provide subsequent information that would have
resulted in the denial or revocation of the license.
         (c)   For commission by the licensee, or a principal owner, of a
specified criminal activity that is a felony, whether on or off the premises.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002) Penalty, see §
113.99
MANAGERIAL LICENSE
§ 113.40 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manage an adult use-primary without a
valid adult use-primary manager license issued by the City Clerk pursuant to
this chapter. The applicant or licensee has an affirmative duty to supplement
an application with new information received subsequent to the date the
application was completed or license was issued.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.41 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The fee for an adult use-primary manager license is $50. The City
Council may amend from time to time by ordinance the license fee. The license
fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the license and other costs directly
related to the enforcement of this chapter; no license fee shall be increased
without providing mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all
affected licenses at least 45 days before the hearing.
   (B)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.42 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   A manager license shall be valid only at a specific licensed adult use-
primary. Each license shall coincide with the expiration date of the adult use-
primary business license for which it is issued.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.43 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall be on
a form provided by the city.
      (1)   The form shall be verified and filed with the city. No person shall
make a false statement in an application.
      (2)   The following information shall be provided on the application
form:
         (a)   The name, street address (and mailing address if different) of
the applicant;
         (b)   The applicant’s driver’s license number, or state-issued
identification number and Social Security number;
         (c)   The name, address and phone number of the adult use-primary to
be managed;
         (d)   Whether the applicant has been convicted, or is awaiting trial
on pending charges, of a specified criminal activity and, if so, the specified
criminal activity involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each;
         (e)   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this
chapter or other similar adult use ordinance from another city or county
denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the adult use
for which the license was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of
the denial, suspension or revocation, and whether the applicant is or has been
a partner in a partnership or an officer, director or principal stockholder of
a corporation that is or was licensed under an adult use ordinance whose
license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the name
and location of the adult use for which the license was denied, suspended or
revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation; and
         (f)   Whether the applicant holds any other license(s) under this
chapter or other similar adult use ordinance from another city or county and,
if so, the names and locations of the other licensed business(es).
   (B)   Each application for a manager license shall be accompanied by the
following: payment of the application fee in full.
   (C)   Attached to the application form for a license shall be the following:
      (1)   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant’s
face. Any fees for the photographs shall be paid by the applicant;
      (2)   A statement detailing the adult use license history of the
applicant for the five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of
the application, including whether the applicant, in this or any other city,
county, state or country, has ever had any license, permit or authorization to
do business denied, revoked or suspended, or had any professional or vocational
license or permit denied, revoked or suspended. In the event of any such
denial, revocation or suspension, state the name(s) under which the license was
sought and/or issued, the name(s) of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and
describe in full the reason(s) for the denial, revocation or suspension. A copy
of any order of denial, revocation or suspension shall be attached to the
application; and
      (3)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted, or is
awaiting trial on pending charges, of a specified criminal activity and, if so,
the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of
each.
   (D)   Every application for a license shall contain a statement under oath
that:
      (1)   The applicant has personal knowledge of the information contained
in the application, and that the information contained therein and furnished
therewith is complete, true and correct;
      (2)   The applicant has personal knowledge of the provisions of this
chapter,
Chapter 150 (the adult use zoning ordinance) and
Chapter 151 (the city zoning ordinance); and
      (3)   The applicant acknowledges the responsibility of management
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.44 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background investigation. On an initial application for a
license the City Council shall cause to be conducted a preliminary background
investigation. The applicant shall pay with the application an investigation
fee of $500, which shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the
preliminary investigation is less than $500, the unused portion shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Comprehensive background investigation. If the results of a
preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the City Council,
a comprehensive background investigation, the city may cause to be conducted a
comprehensive background investigation. The investigation fee for this
comprehensive background investigation to be paid by the applicant is $500,
less any amount paid for the preliminary investigation, if the investigation is
to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.45 COUNCIL APPROVAL OF LICENSE.
   The City Council in its sound discretion, pursuant to §
113.48, may either grant or deny the initial application for any license for
any license. The City Council shall complete any investigation and make its
decision within 15 days of the city’s receipt of a completed application. No
applicant has a right to a license under this chapter.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.46 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 15 days, and not more than 30 days, before the expiration of a
license issued under this chapter, an application shall be filed with the City
Clerk. No background investigation pursuant to §
113.44. Pursuant to §
113.48, the decision whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound
discretion of the City Council. The City Council shall make its decision within
15 days of the city’s receipt of a completed application. No licensee has a
right to have the license renewed.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.47 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No manager license issued under this chapter may be transferred to another
individual, premises or licensed adult use-primary.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.48 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each adult use-primary manager license shall be issued only to the
applicant for the adult use- primary described in the application.
   (B)   No adult use-primary manager license shall be granted or renewed for
operation on any adult use-primary which does not hold a valid business
license.
   (C)   No adult use-primary manager license shall be issued to an individual
under the age of 18.
   (D)   No adult use-primary manager license shall be issued to an individual
who has been convicted of a specified criminal activity which is a felony.
   (E)   No adult use-primary manager license shall be granted to an individual
who has been convicted of specified criminal activities or had similar adult
use licenses, at one or more locations, suspended, denied or revoked, whereby
the violations would exceed ten accumulated points under §
113.51.
   (F)   No adult use-primary manager license shall be granted or renewed to an
individual who has had an adult use-primary business license or adult use-
primary manager license revoked under the provisions of this chapter within the
past five years.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.49 APPEAL OF DENIED LICENSE.
   If the applicant alleges that a license was denied in error, the status quo
will remain in effect pending the outcome of a hearing pursuant to the
Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 through 14.69, as they may be
amended from time to time. The City Council may act as the hearing body under
that Act, or it may contract with the office of hearing examiners for a hearing
officer.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.50 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the following conditions of the
license specified below shall result in a suspension or revocation of the
license.
   (A)   When the licensee is managing the adult use-primary, he or she is
responsible for the conduct on the premises.
   (B)   When the licensee is managing the adult use-primary, he or she is
responsible for ensuring that his or her adult use-primary manager license is
posted and clearly visible and readable to the public. Any such posted license
is deemed evidence that the manager is on duty and responsible for conduct on
the premises.
   (C)   When the licensee is managing the adult use-primary, he or she is
responsible for maintaining his or her position in the designated manager
station.
   (D)   When the licensee is managing the adult use-primary, he or she shall
not be in a state of nudity.
   (E)   When the licensee is managing the adult use-primary, he or she shall
not have a blood alcohol content exceeding 0.04 or be in the possession or use
of a controlled substance.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.51 VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall either suspend or revoke any license upon
finding that the licensee has failed to comply with any provision of this
chapter. No suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has
been afforded an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 through 14.69, as they may be amended from time
to time. The City Council may act as the hearing body under that Act, or it may
contract with the office of hearing examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   Points are to be assigned according to the following schedule.
      (1)   Violations meriting five points include commission by the licensee
of a specified criminal activity that is a misdemeanor, whether on or off the
premises; commission by the licensee of use or possession of a controlled
substance while on the premises; revocation of an adult use license issued by
another municipality or county; managing without a valid adult use-primary
manager license.
      (2)   Violations meriting three points include false statement or
omission in the license application or failure to provide subsequent
information that would not have resulted in the revocation or denial of the
license; non-payment of civil fines imposed under §
113.99 interference with inspections or enforcement; failure to post manager
license or maintain position at manager station while on duty; allowing
performance by live entertainment under age 18; occurrence of prostitution,
solicitation, inducement or promotion of prostitution or coercion for
prostitution on the premises.
      (3)   Violations meriting two points include allowing a minor to
patronize the adult use-primary; allowing live entertainment in a prohibited
area; allowing prohibited touching between patron and live entertainment;
allowing the patrons into a nonpublic area, including remaining on the premises
after hours; allowing on the premises sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, masturbation, bestiality, direct physical
stimulation of the male or female genitalia, pubic hair, perineum anal region
or natal cleft or the female breast, whether clothed or unclothed, flagellation
or torture in the context of a sexual relationship, use of human or animal
ejaculation, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship; failing to maintain visibility or lighting requirements; allowing
prohibited sale or consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor on
the premises.
      (4)   Violations meriting one point include suspension of an adult use
license issued by another municipality or county; having blood alcohol content
exceeding 0.04; failure to maintain cleanliness, failure to maintain physical
design requirements.
   (C)   Points are cumulative and remain on license, including a renewed
license, for three years. Occurrences continuing for more than one day shall be
considered separate occurrences for each day when the licensee was on duty;
each occurrence shall be considered a separate violation. Where the occurrence
of a single violation may be assigned more than one point classification under
division (B) above, the greater value shall be assigned. Violations will be
cited in writing with opportunity for appeal. Failure to appeal shall be deemed
to indicate no contest to the charge.
   (D)   (1)   The license shall be suspended by the City Council after a
finding under division (A) above that the licensee has failed to comply with
any provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods below.
      (2)   The City Council shall select the day or days during which the
license will be suspended.
         (a)   For one point, a one-day suspension in addition to any criminal
or civil penalties which may be imposed.
         (b)   For two points accumulated within any three-year period, a three
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (c)   For three points accumulated within any three-year period, a
four consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (d)   For four points accumulated within any three-year period, a
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (e)   For five points accumulated within any three-year period, a ten
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (f)   For six points accumulated within any three-year period, a 14
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (g)   For seven points accumulated within any three-year period, a 21
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (h)   For eight points accumulated within any three-year period, a 28
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (i)   For nine points accumulated within any three-year period, a 35
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (j)   For ten points accumulated within any three-year period, a 42
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
   (E)   The following are cause for revocation which shall be imposed by the
City Council for violations of the provisions of this chapter. Revocations
shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which the revocation is
imposed.
      (1)   For over ten points violation within any three-year period.
      (2)   For discovery of a false statement or omission in the license
application or failure to provide subsequent information that would have
resulted in the denial or revocation of the license.
      (3)   For commission by the licensee of a specified criminal activity
that is a felony, whether on or off the premises.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by up to 90 days imprisonment and/or a $1,000 fine, and
upon conviction, shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The City Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of this chapter as provided by the minimum schedule of presumptive
civil penalties.
      (1)   These civil penalties shall be in addition to any criminal
penalties imposed under division (A) above or any suspension or revocation
imposed under §§
113.28 or
113.51.
         (a)   Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required for
the City Council to impose the civil penalty.
         (b)   A hearing under the Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57
through 14.69, as they may be amended from time to time, is not required before
the penalty is imposed, but the City Council shall hold a hearing on the
proposed violation and the proposed penalty and hear any person who wishes to
speak.
         (c)   Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for suspension or
revocation of the license.
      (2)   The following is the minimum schedule of presumptive civil
penalties in addition to any suspensions which must be imposed unless the
license is revoked:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period: $50;
         (b)   For the second violation within any three-year period: $1,000;
and
         (c)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period: $2,000 for each violation.
(Ord. 93, passed 11-18-2002)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   MISDEMEANORS
      
131.   MINORS; CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: MISDEMEANORS
Section
Offenses Against the Public Peace
   
130.01   Lurking or loitering
   
130.02   Noise and disturbing peace
   
130.03   Indecent conduct
   
130.04   Disturbing assembly
   
130.05   Firearms
   
130.06   Provoking assault
   
130.07   Assault and battery
   
130.08   Unlawful assemblage
   
130.09   Alcoholic beverages consumed on city streets
Offenses Against Public Justice
   
130.25   Aiding escape from custody
   
130.26   Concealing escaped prisoner
   
130.27   Obstructing an officer
   
130.28   Threatening an officer
   
130.29   Impersonating an officer
Offenses Against Public Health and Safety
   
130.40   Setting fire
   
130.41   Sale of firearms to minor
   
130.42   Exposure to disease
   
130.43   Offensive smells
   
130.44   Animals running at large
   
130.45   Gambling
   
130.46   Obscene literature
   
130.47   Immoral shows
Offenses Against Public and Private Property
   
130.60   Generally
   
130.61   Obstructing streets and sidewalks
   
130.62   Barriers and guards
   
130.63   Molesting unfinished paving
   
130.64   Excavating streets
   
130.65   Nuisances
 
   
130.99   Penalty
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC PEACE
§ 130.01 LURKING OR LOITERING.
   No person shall lurk, lie in wait or conceal himself or herself in or about
any building, yard, lot, street or alley within the city with intent to do
mischief or to pilfer, or for any immoral purpose, or to commit any crime, or
misdemeanor whatever; lurking, lying in wait or concealing oneself in the city
after 1:00 a.m. shall be prima facie evidence of the wrongful intent.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 NOISE AND DISTURBING PEACE.
   No person shall make, countenance or assist in making any noise, riot,
disturbance, improper diversion or assault, disturbing the public peace and
order.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 INDECENT CONDUCT.
   No person shall appear in any street or public or exposed place in a state
of nudity, or make any indecent exposure of his or her person or perform or
utter any obscene or filthy act or any lewd or indecent, immoral, profane or
insulting conduct, language or behavior, or exhibit, sell or offer for sale,
any indecent, obscene or lewd book, picture or other thing, or exhibit or
perform any indecent, immoral or lewd play or other act or representation.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 DISTURBING ASSEMBLY.
   No person, firm or corporation shall, without authority of the law, wilfully
disturb any assembly or meeting not unlawful in its character.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 FIREARMS.
   No person shall aim any weapon, gun, pistol, revolver or other firearm,
whether loaded or not, at or towards any human being, nor shall any person
discharge any firearm or gun or other weapon or throw any deadly missile in any
place where there is any person to be endangered even though no injury actually
results.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 PROVOKING ASSAULT.
   No person shall use in reference to any other person in the presence of
another or in reference to, or in the presence of any member of the family of
another, abusive or obscene language tending to provoke an assault or any
breach of the peace.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   No person shall attempt, unlawfully, to strike, nor shall any person stride,
or in any unlawful manner offer to or do any bodily harm to any other person,
nor shall any other person make an attempt to apply any degree of force or
violence to the person of another, nor shall any person in a violent, rude,
angry, insolent or immoral manner touch or lay hands upon the person of
another.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLAGE.
   An assembly of two or more persons who assemble with intent to commit any
unlawful act; or to carry out any purpose in such a manner as to disturb the
public peace; or being assembled, shall attempt or threaten, any act intending
toward a breach of the peace or an injury to persons or property, is unlawful
and every person participating therein, by his or her presence, aid or
instigation, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable as herein above
provided.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES CONSUMED ON CITY STREETS.
   There shall be no alcoholic beverages consumed on any city streets without
special permits thus designating a specific area and time.
(Ord. 71, passed 5-12-1986) Penalty, see §
130.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE
§ 130.25 AIDING ESCAPE FROM CUSTODY.
   No person, firm or corporation shall effect or facilitate the escape of a
prisoner, whether the escape shall be effected or attempted or not, nor shall
any person, firm or corporation convey to any prisoner any information designed
to facilitate escape or send any disguise, instrument, weapon or other such
thing to any such prisoner or person in custody.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.26 CONCEALING ESCAPED PRISONER.
   No person, firm or corporation shall knowingly or wilfully conceal or harbor
for the purpose of concealment, a person who has escaped or who is escaping
from custody from the violation of any ordinance or law.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.27 OBSTRUCTING AN OFFICER.
   No person shall wilfully resist, delay or obstruct a city officer in
discharging or attempting to discharge a duty of his or her office.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.28 THREATENING AN OFFICER.
   No person shall directly or indirectly address any threat or intimidation to
a city officer or an appraiser or assessor or to any other person authorized by
law to hear or determine any controversy or matter with intent to induce,
contrary to his or her duty, or do or make or omit or delay any act, decision
or determination.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.29 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   No person shall exercise or assume to exercise any of the powers conveyed
upon a peace officer nor shall any person falsely represent himself or herself
to be such an officer or to possess the power and authority thereof, except he
or she be a duly authorized officer of the law.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
§ 130.40 SETTING FIRE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall negligently, carelessly or
intentionally set on fire or cause to be set on fire any combustible material
whether on his or her own land or not, whereby the property of another shall be
endangered nor shall any person, firm or corporation, negligently suffer any
fire upon his or her own land to extend beyond the limits thereof.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.41 SALE OF FIREARMS TO MINOR.
   No person, firm or corporation shall sell, offer for sale or give away, or
in anywise furnish, any firearms or ammunition to a minor under the age of 18
years without the written consent of the minor’s parents or guardian or of a
peace officer or magistrate.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.42 EXPOSURE TO DISEASE.
   No person shall wilfully expose himself or herself to others while affected
with, any contagious or infectious disease in any public place or thoroughfare
except during his or her necessary removal in a manner not dangerous to the
public health.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.43 OFFENSIVE SMELLS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall within the limits of the city permit or
suffer to be, or remain upon his or her or its premises or upon any lands or
premises occupied or used by or under his or her control, any out-house, privy,
vault, sewer, private drain, sick or unsound flesh, meat, fish, skin, carcass,
garbage or any unwholesome or offensive substance, liquid or thing whatever,
which is offensive, nauseous, hurtful, dangerous, unhealthy or uncomfortable to
or for the neighborhood in which it is located.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.44 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall permit or allow any pigs, cattle,
horses, mules, sheep, goats or any poultry, turkeys, chickens, ducks or geese,
then either owned by him or her under his or her control, to run at large
unattended by him or her or other responsible persons or permit any such animal
to do any damage to property, either public or private.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.45 GAMBLING.
   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in any gambling with cards,
dice, gaming tables or any other gambling device, nor shall any person, firm or
corporation allow any premises to be used for gambling or have the use of any
gambling devise.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.46 OBSCENE LITERATURE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall bring or cause to be brought, or buy,
sell, advertise, give away, offer, show, exhibit, post, distribute, design,
copy, draw, photograph, print, etch, engrave, cut, carve, make, public, utter
or otherwise prepare, or assist in preparing or receive subscriptions for any
indecent or obscene picture book, pamphlet or magazine.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.47 IMMORAL SHOWS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall produce, give, take part in producing
or show any immoral show or permit the same to be done.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 130.60 GENERALLY.
   Every person, firm or corporation who shall wilfully or maliciously
displace, remove, disfigure, injure or destroy public or private property shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.61 OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall obstruct any public sidewalk, road,
street, alley or driveway by leaving, placing, keeping or causing to be left,
placed or kept any obstruction, including the engine or train of cars, for a
longer period than ten minutes without special written permission from the City
Council.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.62 BARRIERS AND GUARDS.
   It shall be the duty of every person who shall have charge of the
construction of any excavation or obstruction adjacent to or under any
sidewalk, or street, during the progress of the work, to cause the excavation
to be securely guarded by a fence, and from one-half hour after sunset to one-
half hour before sunrise, the excavation or obstruction shall be illuminated
with red lights sufficient in number and so placed as to show the full extent
thereof.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.63 MOLESTING UNFINISHED PAVING.
   No person shall walk upon, drive, ride over or across any pavement in the
course of construction or any uncompleted grading or sidewalk or curb
construction which has not been opened for travel.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.64 EXCAVATING STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to excavate in any
street, alley or public grounds in the city, without first having obtained from
the City Clerk, or other person designated by the Council, a permit to do so.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.65 NUISANCES.
   (A)   The following are declared to be public nuisances affecting property,
public and private, and public peace and safety:
      (1)   All trees, hedges, billboards, fences or other obstructions, except
buildings erected in accordance with city ordinances, which prevent persons
driving vehicles approaching an intersection of public highways from having a
clear view of traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets for 75
feet along the cross streets, measured from the property line;
      (2)   All limbs of trees which project over a public sidewalk or street
and are less than eight feet above the surface of the public street or
sidewalk;
      (3)   All wires except clothes line wires which are strung less than 15
feet above the surface of the ground;
      (4)   The allowing of water, rainwater, ice or snow to fall from any
building or structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any
sidewalk; and
      (5)   The doing of any thing or act or occupation, or any failure to act
which shall annoy, injure or endanger the safety, health, comfort or repose of
the public.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall knowingly cause create any
nuisance as defined in this section shall be guilty of misdemeanor.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   In doing of any of acts or things prohibited or the failure to do any of the
things or acts commanded to be done as hereinafter set forth in this chapter is
hereby declared to be an offense against the good order, public peace, morals,
health, welfare and proper government of this city, and unlawful; and any
person, firm or corporation convicted of violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 35, passed 11-10-1955)
CHAPTER 131: MINORS; CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Curfew for minors
§ 131.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor's household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Police Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor.
The person providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession or occupation and the minor's
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work.
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor's
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor.
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew.
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion.
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next- door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city’s designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s presence.
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian,
or other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless one of the
exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city's designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   ADULT USES; ZONING REGULATIONS
      
151.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: ADULT USES; ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Short title
   
150.02   Definitions
   
150.03   Regulations
Cross-reference:
   Adult uses, see
Chapter 113
§ 150.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Adult Use Zoning
Ordinance”, except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as “this
chapter”.
(Ord. 92, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 150.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT MEDIA. Includes printed matter, magazines, newspapers, books,
pictures, slides, records, audio tape, videotape, motion picture film, compact
discs, digital video discs, floppy discs and other communicative materials
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on the presentation,
display, depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT USES. Include adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult
mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage parlors, adult steam room/
bathhouse/sauna facilities, adult companionship establishments, adult rap/
conversation parlors, adult health/sport clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty
businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotels/
motels, adult body painting studios, and other premises, enterprises,
establishments, businesses or places open to some or all members of the public,
at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas which
are capable of being seen by members of the public. Licensed or accredited
veterinary, medical or educational establishments shall not be considered ADULT
USES.
   ADULT USE, INCIDENTAL. A use, business or establishment having 10% or less
of its stock in trade or floor area allocated to, or 20% or less of its gross
receipts derived from adult media rentals or sales for the customer’s private
use off-premises.
   ADULT USE, NONPROTECTED. An adult body painting studio, adult companionship
establishment, adult conversation/rap parlor, adult health/sport club, adult
hotel/motel, adult massage parlor, adult modeling studio, adult sauna, adult
steam room/bathhouse/spa or other use, business or establishment providing on-
premises, personal encounters with an emphasis on the presentation, display,
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT USE, PRIMARY. An adult bookstore, adult cabaret, adult mini-motion
picture theater, adult motion picture arcade, adult motion picture theater,
adult novelty business or any other use, business or establishment meeting any
of the following:
      (1)   Advertising, or otherwise holding itself out, in any forum as
featuring “adult”, “hardcore”, “XXX”, “sex” or otherwise as an adult use,
despite having 10% or less of its stock in trade or floor area allocated to, or
20% or less of its gross receipts derived from adult media rentals or sales for
the customer’s private use off-premises;
      (2)   Having more than 10% of its stock in trade or floor area allocated
to, or more than 20% of its gross receipts derived from adult media rentals or
sales;
      (3)   Providing any form of on-premises entertainment with an emphasis on
the presentation, display, depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (4)   An adult use not meeting the definition of adult use, incidental or
adult use, nonprotected.
   ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business which provides the
service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent or non-
transparent, to or on the body of a patron when the body is wholly or partially
nude in terms of specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A building or portion of a building used for the barter,
rental or sale of items consisting of adult media if the building or portion of
a building is not open to the public generally but only to one or more classes
of the public extending any minor by reason of age or if a substantial or
significant portion of the items are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A building or portion of a building used for providing
dancing or other live entertainment, if the building or portion of a building
excludes minors by virtue of age or if the dancing or other live entertainment
is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the presentation, display,
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A companionship establishment which
excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in
or listening to conversation, talk or discussion between an employee of the
establishment and a customer, if the service is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap parlor which excludes
minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in or
listening to conversation, talk or discussion, if the service is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club which excludes minors by reason
of age, or if the club is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT HOTEL/MOTEL. Adult hotel/motel means a hotel or motel from which
minors are specifically excluded from patronage and wherein material is
presented which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR. A massage parlor which restricts minors by reason of
age, and which provides the services of massage, if the service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building with
a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material if the
building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by
virtue of age, or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is the
provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to the customers and
who engage in specified sexual activities or display specified anatomical areas
while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured,
photographed or otherwise depicted by the customers.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin- or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled or operated still or motor picture machines, projectors
or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer
persons per machine at any on time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building with a
capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material if the building or
portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by virtue of age
or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons therein.
   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has as a principal activity the
sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which are designated
for sexual stimulation.
   ADULT SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, or which
provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of bathing,
relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or
reducing agent, if the service provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE/SPA.  A building or portion of a building used
for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
pleasure, bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a
cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if the building or portion of a building
restricts minors by reason of age or if the service provided by the steam room/
bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitalia, pubic
region, perineum anal region, natal cleft or the nipple and/or areola of the
female breast(s).
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, beastiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexual-oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty,
pygmalionism, urolagia;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus
or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks
or female breast;
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any such persons;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually-oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human erection, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
(Ord. 92, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 150.03 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is an amendment to the city zoning ordinance, and may be
enforced and appealed as such.
   (B)   No adult use shall be permitted as an accessory use.
   (C)   An adult use, incidental may locate as a permitted use in the C
Commercial Zone subject to the provisions of this chapter and other ordinances,
including the standards of the zone.
   (D)   An adult use, nonprotected may not locate as a permitted or
conditional use in any zone of the city.
   (E)   An adult use-primary may locate as a permitted use in the C Commercial
Zone subject to the provisions of this chapter and other ordinances, including
the standards of the zone.
   (F)   No adult use, primary shall be permitted outside of the following
designated area: the easterly 786 feet of the Northeast 1A of Section 11,
Township 111, Range 30 West, excepting the northerly 578 feet therefrom, and
also excepting the southerly 1000 feet therefrom.
   (G)   When a property owner petitions for the simple subdivision of a large
parcel in order to accommodate the location requirement for an adult use-
primary, and both resulting parcels would be buildable lots as far as setbacks,
lot width and depth, lot area, building coverage, parking, access and utilities
are concerned, the Council shall allow the simple subdivision to accommodate
the location requirement for an adult use, primary.
   (H)   An adult use involving new construction shall have off-street parking
to accommodate normal traffic generated by the business.
      (1)   When the determination of the required number of parking spaces
results in a fraction, the fraction of one-half or less may be disregarded and
the fraction in excess of one-half shall be counted as one space.
      (2)   An adult cabaret, adult mini-motion picture theater, adult motion
picture arcade, adult motion picture theater or other adult use, primary
providing on-premises entertainment shall have a minimum of one space for each
four seats based upon the designed maximum occupancy or one space for each 400
square feet of floor area.
      (3)   An adult use-incidental, adult bookstore, adult novelty business or
other adult use providing retail sales or rental shall have a minimum of one
space for each 600 square feet of floor area.
   (I)   The moratorium established in the adult use interim ordinance is now
expired.
   (J)   With no nonconforming uses under this chapter, amortization is
unnecessary.
(Ord. 92, passed 11-18-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Intent and purpose
   
151.002   Title
   
151.003   Definitions
   
151.004   Interpretation
   
151.005   Compatibility with other regulations
   
151.006   Conformance to chapter
   
151.007   Platting requirements
   
151.008   Opt-out of M.S. § 462.3593
   
151.009   Cannabis
Establishment of Zones
   
151.020   Classification of zones
   
151.021   Location of zones
   
151.022   Zoning map
   
151.023   Zone boundaries
   
151.024   Annexed territory
R1 General Residential Zone
   
151.035   Purpose
   
151.036   Permitted uses
   
151.037   Conditional uses
   
151.038   Standards
R2 Multi-Family Residential Zone
   
151.050   Purpose
   
151.051   Permitted uses
   
151.052   Conditional uses
   
151.053   R2 standards
C Commercial Zone
   
151.065   Purpose
   
151.066   Permitted uses
   
151.067   Conditional uses
   
151.068   Standards
I Industrial Zone
   
151.080   Purpose
   
151.081   Permitted uses
   
151.082   Conditional uses
   
151.083   I standards
A Agricultural Zone
   
151.095   Purpose
   
151.096   Permitted uses
   
151.097   Conditional uses
   
151.098   A standards
General Exceptions
   
151.110   Dimensional regulations
   
151.111   Nonconforming uses and structures
Performance Standards
   
151.125   Compliance required
   
151.126   Fire hazards
   
151.127   Sewage facilities
   
151.128   Vibration
   
151.129   Air pollution
   
151.130   Refuse
   
151.131   Radioactivity or electrical disturbance
   
151.132   Signs
   
151.133   Fences, walls and hedges
   
151.134   Shipping and storage containers
Zoning Administration
   
151.145   Zoning Administrator
   
151.146   Board of Adjustment and Appeals
   
151.147   Duties of Board of Adjustment and Appeals
   
151.148   Circumstances for granting a variance
   
151.149   Variances and appeals procedure
   
151.150   Planning Commission
   
151.151   Duties of the Planning Commission
   
151.152   Conditional uses
   
151.153   Conditional use procedure
   
151.154   Amendments
   
151.155   Amendment procedure
   
151.156   Amendment decision process
Enforcement
   
151.170   Land use permits
   
151.171   Fees
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   All former zoning ordinances and subsequent amendments adopted, by the
city are hereby repealed in their entirety.
   (B)   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of:
      (1)   Protecting the public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience
and general welfare;
      (2)   Promoting orderly development of the residential, commercial,
industrial, recreational and public areas;
      (3)   Providing adequate light, air and convenience of access of
property;
      (4)   Providing for the compatibility of different land uses and the most
appropriate use of land throughout the city; and
      (5)   Preventing overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures by regulating the use of land and buildings and the bulk of
buildings in relation to the land and buildings surrounding them.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the city zoning
ordinance, except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as “this
chapter”.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense shall include the future tense; words in the singular
number shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular.
   ACCESSORY USES. A land use related, but subordinated to the main use of the
property, including, but not limited to, garages, fences, parking lots,
driveways and sidewalks.
   BLOCK. The property abutting on one side of a street and lying between the
two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets or subdivided acreage.
   DWELLING. A structure used for human occupancy.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. Three or more attached single-family dwellings.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling, built as a single house
keeping unit occupied by individuals living as a family as distinguished from a
group occupying a lodging facility.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. Two attached single-family swellings.
   FEEDLOT. The raising of livestock or poultry in any confined area or pasture
where the intensity of use is such that natural vegetation cannot be
maintained.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A land use conducted basically within a dwelling and
carried on by the inhabitants there of which is clearly incidental and
secondary to the residential use of the lot and does not change the character
thereof. Generation of traffic, noise, odor and discharges above levels
normally found in the neighborhood in question are examples of changing the
character thereof. (See RESIDENTIAL BUSINESS).
   LAND USE. A structure on the land or an activity taking place on the land.
   LOT. Land having frontage on at least one street, occupied or to be occupied
by a building or buildings.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two or more streets.
   RESIDENTIAL BUSINESS. A land use that is clearly secondary to the
residential use of the lot but that generates traffic, noise, odor or
discharges or involves structures that are more intense than those normally
found in the neighborhood.
   SETBACK. Distance between the lot edge and face of structures.
   SIGNS, ADVERTISING. Signs advertising for something associated with a
different site than the sign site.
   SIGNS, IDENTIFICATION. Signs identifying the name of the business or persons
occupying the site where the sign is.
   SIGNS, TEMPORARY. Signs used for a temporary period of time, including
festival banners, political signs and real estate signs.
   STREET. Public right-of-way which can be used for vehicular traffic,
including roads and highways, but not including alleys.
   STRUCTURE ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of land into smaller parcels through the use of a
plat or registered land survey.
   YARD, REQUIRED. The area described when a minimum setback, is required.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990; Ord. 147, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 151.004 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, morals and welfare.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.005 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Where the conditions of this chapter are comparable with conditions imposed
by any other federal, state or county law, ordinance, statute or regulation,
the regulations which are more restrictive shall prevail.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.006 CONFORMANCE TO CHAPTER.
   No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed, moved or structurally altered nor shall any building or land be
used except for the purpose permitted in the district in which the building or
land is located.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.007 PLATTING REQUIREMENTS.
   No  land use  permit will be issued for any land parcel subdivided after the
effective date of this chapter that has not been officially platted in
accordance with state law and recorded in the county recorder’s office, with
the following exceptions:
   (A)   Parcels that are five acres or larger with no public road or right of
way involved; and
   (B)   Simple splitting of a previously platted parcel where all of the
residential parcels meet minimum lot size requirements for the zoning district.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990; Ord. 144, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 151.008 OPT-OUT OF M.S. § 462.3593.
   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, Subd. 9, as it may be
amended from time to time, the city opts-out of the requirements of M.S.§
462.3593, as it may be amended from time to time, which defines and regulates
temporary family health care dwellings.
(Ord. 120, passed 7-12-2016)
§ 151.009 CANNABIS.
   (A)   Administration.
      (1)   Findings and purpose. The City of Lafayette makes the following
legislative findings: the purpose of this section is to implement the
provisions of M.S. Ch. 342, which authorizes the city to protect the public
health, safety, welfare of city residents by regulating cannabis businesses
within the legal boundaries of the city. The city finds and concludes that the
proposed provisions are appropriate and lawful land use regulations for the
city, that the proposed amendments will promote the community’s interest in
reasonable stability in zoning for now and in the future, and that the proposed
provisions are in the public interest and for the public good.
      (2)   Authority and jurisdiction. The city has the authority to adopt
this section pursuant to:
         (a)   M.S. § 342.13(c), regarding the authority of a local unit of
government to adopt reasonable restrictions of the time, place, and manner of
the operation of a cannabis business provided that such restrictions do no
prohibit the establishment or operation of cannabis businesses.
         (b)   M.S. § 342.22, regarding the local registration and enforcement
requirements of state-licensed cannabis retail businesses and lower-potency
hemp edible retail businesses.
         (c)   M.S. § 152.0263, Subd. 5, regarding the use of cannabis in
public places.
         (d)   M.S. § 462.357, regarding the authority of a local authority to
adopt zoning ordinances.
      This section shall be applicable to the legal boundaries of the city.
      The City of Lafayette has delegated cannabis retail registration
authority to Nicolett County, however the city retains the authority and hereby
adopts ordinances relating to the zoning, buffers, hours of operation, and
number of registrations.
      (3)   Enforcement. The elected body of a jurisdiction can choose to
designate an official to administer and enforce this section. The city is
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this section. Any
violation of the provisions of this section or failure to comply with any of
its requirements constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law.
Violations of this section can occur regardless of whether or not a permit is
required for a regulated activity listed in this section.
      (4)   Definitions.  Unless otherwise noted in this section, words and
phrases contained in M.S. § 342.01 and the rules promulgated pursuant to any of
these acts, shall have the same meanings in this section.
         CANNABIS CULTIVATION. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis
plants within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to
mature plant. Harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label
immature plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis
businesses, transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the
same premises, and perform other actions approved by the office.
         CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES.  A retail location and the retail location
(s) of a mezzobusinesses with a retail operations endorsement, microbusinesses
with a retail operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating
a retail location, lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
         CANNABIS RETAILER.  Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or
association, foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and
not for the purpose of resale in any form.
         DAYCARE. A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human
Services to provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child’s own
home for gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a 24-hour day.
         LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. As defined under M.S. § 342.01, Subd. 50.
         OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. Minnesota Office of Cannabis
Management, referred to as “OCM” in this section.
         PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, accommodation, refreshment,
entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whether
licensed or not, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or
accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the
public.
         PRELIMINARY LICENSE FOR APPROVAL. OCM pre-approval for a cannabis
business license for applicants who qualify under M.S. § 342.17.
         PUBLIC PLACE.  A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk; any
enclosed, indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited
to, restaurants; bars; any other food or liquor establishment; hospitals;
nursing homes; auditoriums; arenas; gyms; meeting rooms; common areas of rental
apartment buildings, and other places of public accommodation.
         RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. As defined under M.S. § 245.462, Subd.
23.
         RETAIL REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by the county to
a state-licensed cannabis retail business.
         SCHOOL.  A public school as defined under M.S. § 120A.05 or a
nonpublic school that must meet the reporting requirements under M.S. §
120A.24.
         STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota’s
Office of Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
   (B)   Registration of cannabis business.
      (1)   Consent to registering of cannabis businesses. No individual or
entity may operate a state-licensed cannabis retail business within the city
without first registering with Nicollet County. Any state-licensed cannabis
retail business that sells to a customer or patient without valid retail
registration shall incur a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each violation.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the state shall not issue a license
to any cannabis business to operate in Indian country, as defined in U.S.C.,
Title 18, Section 1151, of a Minnesota Tribal government without the consent of
the Tribal government.
      (2)   Compliance checks prior to retail registration. Prior to issuance
of a cannabis retail business registration, Nicollet County may conduct a
preliminary compliance check to ensure compliance with local ordinances.
Pursuant to M.S. Ch. 342, within 30 days of receiving a copy of a state license
application from OCM, the city shall certify on a form provided by OCM whether
a proposed cannabis retail business complies with local zoning ordinances and,
if applicable, whether the proposed business complies with the State Fire Code
and Building Code.
      (3)   Limiting number of registrations. If Nicollet County has one active
cannabis retail businesses registration for every 12,500 residents, the city
shall not be required to register additional state-licensed cannabis retail
businesses.
   (C)   Requirements for cannabis businesses.
      (1)   Minimum buffer requirements. The city hereby prohibits the
operation of cannabis retail businesses within 1,000 feet of a school, or
within 500 feet of a daycare, residential treatment facility or an attraction
within a public park that is regularly used by minors, including a playground
or athletic field. Pursuant to M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 1e, nothing in division
(C)(1) shall prohibit an active cannabis business or a cannabis business
seeking registration from continuing operation at the same site if a school/
daycare/residential treatment facility/attraction within a public park that is
regularly used by minors moves within the minimum buffer zone.
      (2)   Zoning and land use. The city has limited the zone(s) that cannabis
business may operate in, either as permitted or conditional uses. Refer to Code
§§ 151.066-151.097.
      (3)   Hours of operation. Cannabis businesses are limited to retail sales
of cannabis, cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or
hemp-derived consumer products between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and between 9:00
p.m. every day.
      (4)   Temporary cannabis events. A cannabis event organizer license
entitles the license holder to organize a temporary cannabis event lasting no
more than four days. A license or permit is required to be issued and approved
by Nicollet County prior to holding a temporary cannabis event. The cannabis
event organizer shall comply with all city regulations, including zoning,
buffer, and hours of operation for the event.
(Ord. 151, passed 3-10-2025)
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES
§ 151.020 CLASSIFICATION OF ZONES.
   (A)   The land areas of the city have been divided into zoning districts
that vary in their regulation of land uses. Land use activities must conform to
the specific zone regulations of the zoning district as well as the pertinent
overall regulations found in other portions of this chapter.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following zones are hereby
established:
      (1)   R1 General Residential;
      (2)   R2 Multi-Family Residential;
      (3)   C Commercial;
      (4)   I Industrial; and
      (5)   A Agricultural.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.021 LOCATION OF ZONES.
   The boundaries for the zones listed in this chapter are indicated on the
zoning map, which is hereby adopted by reference. The boundaries shall be
modified in accordance with zoning map amendments which shall be adopted by
reference.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.022 ZONING MAP.
   The zoning map or zoning map amendment shall be dated with the effective
date of the ordinance that adopts the map or map amendment. A certified print
of the adopted map or map amendment shall be maintained in the office of the
Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.023 ZONE BOUNDARIES.
   Unless otherwise specified, zone boundaries are section lines; subdivision
lines; lot lines; centerline of street or railroad rights-of-way; or such lines
extended.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.024 ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the city shall be zoned in
accordance with the land use plan. Consideration of zoning other than in
accordance with the land use plan should not be done without amending the land
use plan.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
R1 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL ZONE
§ 151.035 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The R1 District is intended to be comprised basically of present and
future low-density housing, augmented with compatible medium density housing
and appropriate miscellaneous uses.
   (B)   These additional uses are conditional, and are to be further regulated
by applying conditional use standards.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.036 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   One- and two-family dwellings;
   (B)   Truck gardening and raising of field crops, excluding the raising of
livestock;
   (C)   Home occupations;
   (D)   State-licensed foster homes or group homes serving six or fewer
mentally retarded or physically handicapped persons;
   (E)   Accessory uses and temporary signs; and
   (F)   Public school, recreation and governmental uses.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.037 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Multiple-family dwellings up to four units;
   (B)   Residential businesses and identification signs;
   (C)   Hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes and churches;
   (D)   Utility structures;
   (E)   State-licensed residential facilities serving from seven through 16
retarded or physically handicapped persons;
   (F)   Seasonal lodging facilities;
   (G)   The raising of livestock, but excluding feedlots; and
   (H)   Other uses as determined by the Planning Commission to be similar in
scope and intensity to those listed above.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.038 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Street setback: minimum of 25 feet.
   (B)   Lot line setback: minimum of five feet.
   (C)   Lot area: minimum of 6,500 square feet plus 2,000 more for each
dwelling unit over one.
   (D)   Lot width: minimum of 65 feet.
   (E)   Lot depth: minimum of 100 feet.
   (F)   Building height: maximum of 25 feet.
   (G)   Dwelling: minimum of 20 feet width and on permanent foundation.
   (H)   Street frontage: minimum of 25 feet on a street other than an alley.
   (I)   Alley set-back: minimum of ten feet from the right of way.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990; Ord. 87, passed 8-13-2001; Ord. 144, passed 10-9-
2023)
R2 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE
§ 151.050 PURPOSE.
   The R2 District is created in order to preserve some land that can develop
to serve the city’s multi-family needs without creating incompatible
situations. To protect this goal permitted uses are few and conditional uses
should be weighed in view of their impact with future multi-family development.
The land use plan also shows potential areas that could be rezoned to R2 if
conditions are found favorable.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.051 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Multi-family housing up to eight units;
   (B)   Accessory uses and temporary signs;
   (C)   Home occupations; and
   (D)   Truck gardening and raising of field crops, excluding the raising of
livestock.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.052 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Multi-family housing over eight units;
   (B)   Professional offices and low-intensity service operations;
   (C)   Public school, recreational and governmental uses;
   (D)   Residential businesses and identification signs;
   (E)   State-licensed residential facilities serving retarded or physically
handicapped;
   (F)   Seasonal lodging facilities;
   (G)   Utility structures;
   (H)   Nursing homes, hospitals, sanitariums and churches;
   (I)   The raising of livestock excluding feedlots;
   (J)   One- and two-family dwellings; and
   (K)   Other uses as determined by the Planning Commission to be similar in
scope and intensity to those listed above
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.053 R2 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Street setback: minimum of 25 feet.
   (B)   Lot line setback: minimum of ten feet, except where a multi-family
dwelling of three units or more abuts to R1 Zone, in which case the minimum
will be 30 feet.
   (C)   Lot area: minimum of 7,500 square feet, plus 2,000 more for each
dwelling unit over one.
   (D)   Lot width: minimum of 75 feet.
   (E)   Lot depth: minimum of 100 feet.
   (F)   Building height: maximum of 40 feet.
   (G)   Dwelling: minimum of 20 feet width and on foundation.
   (H)   Street frontage: minimum of 25 feet on a street other than an alley.
   (I)   Parking: minimum of one and one-half off-street parking stalls per
dwelling unit for multi-family over two units.
   (J)   Screening: garbage pickup areas and other unsightly service features
should be screened.
   (K)   Alley set-back: minimum of ten feet from the right of way.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990; Ord. 144, passed 10-9-2023)
C COMMERCIAL ZONE
§ 151.065 PURPOSE.
   The C Zone is meant to allow for continuance of the traditional commercial/
residential mix in the existing downtown core and portions of the more sparsely
developed adjacent areas, and also to allow for a highway commercial area that
would be without residential uses. The difference in purpose for these two
commercials areas can be promoted through judicious granting of conditional
uses.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.066 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Retail, wholesale trades;
   (B)   Repair and maintenance services, excluding car, implement, marine and
motorcycle sales/service;
   (C)   Offices, professional services;
   (D)   Eating and drinking establishments;
   (E)   Amusement establishments;
   (F)   Truck gardening and raising of field crops, excluding the raising of
livestock;
   (G)   Accessory uses and temporary and identification signs;
   (H)   Public school, recreation and governmental uses; and
   (I)   Cannabis license types: cannabis retailer, cannabis delivery service,
lower potency hemp retailer.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990; Ord. 151, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 151.067 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Advertising signs;
   (B)   Hotels, motels and lodging facilities;
   (C)   Car, implement, marine and motorcycle sales/service;
   (D)   Light assembly production;
   (E)   Gas stations and auto repair, excluding salvage yards;
   (F)   Lumber yards and warehousing;
   (G)   Single- and multi-family dwellings;
   (H)   The raising of livestock, but excluding feedlots;
   (I)   Utility structures;
   (J)   Other user as determined by the Planning Commission to: be similar in
scope and intensity to those listed above; and
   (K)   Cannabis license types: cannabis cultivator (indoor), cannabis event
organizer, cannabis manufacturer, lower-potency hemp edible manufacturer,
cannabis testing, cannabis wholesaler, cannabis transporter, medical cannabis
combination business, cannabis mezzobusiness, and cannabis microbusiness.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990; Ord. 151, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 151.068 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Street setback: minimum of 25 feet.
   (B)   Lot line setbacks: ten feet minimum, except where commercial abuts a
residential zone, in which case the minimum will be 30 feet.
   (C)   Outside storage: these areas shall be fenced and shall relate to an
ongoing commercial activity.
   (D)   Parking: minimum of ample off-street parking to accommodate normal
traffic generated by the business.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
I INDUSTRIAL ZONE
§ 151.080 PURPOSE.
   The I Zone is meant to allow for continuance and expansion of the existing
industrial uses and to provide regulations for planned industrial and in the
event that it becomes annexed to the city.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.081 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Light manufacturing (i.e., low potential for noise, odor, waste or
pollution problems and low transportation and other service requirements);
   (B)   Warehousing and wholesale merchandising;
   (C)   Automobile, truck and farm machinery repair garages, excluding salvage
yards;
   (D)   Truck terminals and construction equipment storage yards;
   (E)   Industrial offices;
   (F)   Truck gardening and the raising of field crops, excluding the raising
of livestock;
   (G)   Accessory uses and temporary and identification signs; and
   (H)   Cannabis license types: cannabis cultivator, cannabis event organizer,
cannabis manufacturer, lower-potency hemp edible manufacturer, cannabis
testing, cannabis wholesaler, cannabis transporter, medical cannabis
combination business, cannabis mezzobusiness, and cannabis microbusiness.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990; Ord. 151, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 151.082 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Heavy manufacturing (potential for noise, odor, waste or pollution
problems or high transportation and other service requirement needs);
   (B)   Utility structures;
   (C)   Junk yards, auto reduction yards and open storage yards;
   (D)   The raising of livestock, but excluding feedlots;
   (E)   Advertising signs;
   (F)   Recycling and storage or mixing of chemicals or minerals or agri-
products; and
   (G)   Other uses as determined by the Planning Commission to be similar in
scope and intensity to those listed above.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.083 I STANDARDS.
   (A)   Street setback: minimum of 25 feet.
   (B)   Lot line setbacks: ten feet minimum, except where industrial abuts a
residential zone in which case the minimum will be 30 feet.
   (C)   Parking: minimum of ample off-street parking to accommodate normal
traffic generated by the business.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
A AGRICULTURAL ZONE
§ 151.095 PURPOSE.
   The C Zone is needed in order to protect the farm industry as a viable,
long-term use in those incorporated areas that are furthest from urban growth
and associated services. This also promotes new urban growth to occur closer to
services in an efficient manner.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.096 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Truck gardening, the raising of field crops and the raising of
livestock, but excluding feed lots;
   (B)   Dwellings associated with farm operations with sewage system meeting
MNPCA standards;
   (C)   Accessory uses, including agricultural buildings and equipment and
temporary and identification signs; and
   (D)   Home occupations, including seed sales and agricultural equipment
repair.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.097 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Feedlots;
   (B)   Dwellings;
   (C)   Utility structures;
   (D)   Public parks and recreation;
   (E)   Individual home sewage systems meeting MNPCA standards;
   (F)   Residential businesses;
   (G)   Other uses as determined by the Planning Commission to be similar in
scope and intensity to those listed above; and
   (H)   Cannabis license types: cannabis cultivator, cannabis event organizer,
cannabis manufacturer, lower-potency hemp edible manufacturer, cannabis
testing, cannabis wholesaler, cannabis transporter, medical cannabis
combination business, cannabis mezzobusiness, and cannabis microbusiness.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990; Ord. 151, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 151.098 A STANDARDS.
   (A)   Street setback: minimum of 50 feet; and
   (B)   Lot line setbacks: minimum of 25 feet.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
GENERAL EXCEPTIONS
§ 151.110 DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The district regulations hereinafter set forth in this section qualify or
supplement, as the case may be, the district regulations appearing elsewhere in
this chapter.
   (A)   Chimneys, church steeples, towers, aerials, flagpoles and similar
objects not used for human occupancy are not subject to the building height
limitations of this chapter.
   (B)   Architectural features such as cornices, eaves, canopies, sunshades,
gutters, chimneys and flues can project up to 24 inches into a required yard.
   (C)   If there are buildings on abutting lots and the buildings have front
yards of less than the required minimum setback for the zone, the minimum
setback of the front yard for the intervening lot need not exceed the average
setback of the front yards of the abutting lots.
   (E)   An open unenclosed porch or paved terrace no higher than 12 inches
above ground level may project into a required front yard for a distance not
exceeding ten feet.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.111 NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Where, at the time of adoption of this chapter, lawful uses of land or
structures exist which would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by
this chapter, the uses may be continued so long as they conform to the
following requirements.
   (A)   A nonconforming use or structure may be continued, but may not be
altered or extended. The extension of a nonconforming use to a portion of a
structure which was arranged or designed for the nonconforming use at the time
of passage of this chapter is not an enlargement or expansion of a
nonconforming use. A nonconforming structure which conforms with respect to use
may be altered or extended if the alteration or extension does not cause the
structure to deviate further from the standards of this chapter.
   (B)   An existing building wall and area integral to the structure and
located in a side yard set- back area may be extended within the set-back area
subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The extended structure shall maintain the same distance from the
adjoining property line as does the existing structure.
      (2)   The extension of an existing building wall or integral part of a
structure closer than five feet from a side yard line is subject to a
conditional use permit.
   (C)   If a nonconforming use is replaced by another use, the new use shall
conform to this chapter.
   (D)   If a nonconforming structure or a structure containing nonconforming
use is destroyed by any cause to an extent exceeding 50% of its fair market
value as indicated by the records of the county assessor, a future structure or
use on the site shall conform to this chapter.
   (E)   Any structure which will, under this chapter, become nonconforming but
for which a building permit has been lawfully granted prior to the effective
date of this chapter or amendment there of a continues to completion within one
year shall thereafter be a legally existing nonconforming structure.
   (F)   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing or
related to a lawful nonconforming use and incidental alterations which do not
extend or intensify the nonconforming use.
   (G)   Lots of record that are nonconforming in area can be built on with
proper variances but all the lots that are contiguous and with a common owner
at the time of the adoption of this chapter shall be combined to create lots of
proper size in order to receive a building permit.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990; Ord. 144, passed 10-9-2023)
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 151.125 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No land or building in any district shall be used or occupied in any manner
creating dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable conditions
which could adversely affect the surrounding areas or adjoining premises,
except that any use permitted by this chapter may be undertaken and maintained
if acceptable measures and safeguards to reduce dangerous and objectionable
conditions to acceptable limits as established by the following performance
requirements.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.126 FIRE HAZARDS.
   Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or explosive
materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire prevention
equipment and by the safety devices as are normally used in the handling of any
such material. The hazards shall be kept removed from adjacent activities to a
distance which is compatible with the potential danger involved.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.127 SEWAGE FACILITIES.
   Where sewers are not constructed or in operation, all sewage facilities
shall be connected to approved septic tanks and disposal fields in conformance
with State Department of Health Code for on-site sewage systems. No tiles, sump
pumps, roof gutters or other storm water collection device shall be connected
to the community sanitary sewage facilities.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.128 VIBRATION.
   No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible without instruments on
any adjoining lot or property. The standard shall not apply to vibrations
created during the process of construction.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.129 AIR POLLUTION.
   No pollution of air by fly-ash, dust, vapors, odors, smoke or other
substances shall be permitted which are harmful to health, animals, vegetation
or other property, or which can cause excessive soiling. For the purpose of
this chapter, the regulations and standards adopted by the State Pollution
Control Agency shall apply.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.130 REFUSE.
   All waste material, debris, refuse or garbage shall be kept in an enclosed
building or property contained in a closed container designed for those
purposes. The owner of vacant land shall be responsible for keeping the land
free of refuse.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.131 RADIOACTIVITY OR ELECTRICAL DISTURBANCE.
   No activity shall emit dangerous radioactivity at any point, or electrical
disturbance adversely affecting the operation of any equipment at any point
other than that of the creator of the disturbance.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.132 SIGNS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all signs and all use districts.
   (A)   Only official identification, directional or traffic-control signs
shall be allowed within the public right-of-way.
   (B)   No sign shall be permitted on rocks, trees or on any public utility
pole.
   (C)   Any advertising sign which is not kept in a reasonable state of repair
shall be removed by the city after notice to the owner of the sign and like
notice to the property owner and hearing thereon.
   (D)   No sign shall be permitted which gives off an intermittent or rotating
beam of light.
   (E)   Temporary signs must be removed when the occasion, real estate sale or
election is complete.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.133 FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES.
   Fences, walls, hedges and similar barriers, all referred to herein as
“fence”, are permitted in any private yard subject to the following
regulations.
   (A)   Zoning permits are required for all fences over three feet in height.
   (B)   Acceptable materials include new wood, vinyl, decorative metal and
chain-link fence.
   (C)   All fences shall be constructed with the finished side facing outward.
   (D)   Fences shall be constructed in a substantially workmanlike manner and
of material suited for the purpose for which the fence is proposed to be used.
Every fence shall be maintained in a condition of reasonable repair and shall
not be allowed to become and remain in a condition of disrepair or danger or to
constitute a public or private nuisance.
   (E)   Fences shall be set back at least one foot from the lot lines. Fences
are allowed on the property line only with written permission by abutting
property owners; the written permission must be included in the application for
a zoning permit.
   (F)   Fences may be allowed over the maximum height only with written
permission by abutting property owners; the written permission must be included
in the application for a zoning permit. Any allowance greater than the maximum
height is subject to approval by the City Council.
   (G)   Residential fences in the front yard shall not be over three feet in
height. For purposes of this chapter, corner lots may have more than one front
yard.
   (H)   Residential fences in the side yard immediately adjacent to the house
shall not be over six feet in height.
   (I)   Residential fences in the rear yard shall not be over eight feet in
height.
   (J)   Commercial/industrial fences shall not be over eight feet in height.
   (K)   Commercial/industrial uses that require a conditional use permit, such
as junkyards or salvage operations, may be required by the Council to have
fences constructed to certain additional height, material or location standards
to ensure necessary and proper screening.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990; Ord. 96, passed 11-8-2004; Ord. 144, passed 10-9-
2023)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.134 SHIPPING AND STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   Shipping and storage containers in residential areas shall be prohibited for
use as a storage structure, except as a temporary unit for moving purposes for
a period of not more than one consecutive month in a 12-month period, or as a
temporary construction project container for a limited time not to exceed three
months and removed within 30 days of completion of the project.
(Ord. 128, passed 4-8-2019) Penalty, see §
151.999
ZONING ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.145 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Zoning Administrator. The City Clerk and Utility Superintendent shall
jointly serve as the Zoning Administrators, whose responsibilities shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Receive, process, and issue land use permits, and make and maintain
records thereof;
      (2)   Conduct inspections of buildings and use of land to determine
compliance with the terms of Code Title XV;
      (3)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including,
but not limited to, all maps, amendments and conditional uses, variances,
appeals and applications therefor; and
      (4)   Institute, in the name of the city, any appropriate actions or
proceedings against a violator as provided for in this chapter.
   (B)   Processing Applications. Upon receiving a land use permit application,
the Zoning Administrator shall process it as follows:
      (1)   The City Clerk shall review the application and determine whether
it is complete and whether it follows the criteria of the zoning district and
city code.
      (2)   The Utility Superintendent shall review the application and the
relevant physical attributes of the property, including but not limited to
location of utility lines, or easements and determine whether requested items
are clearly within set-backs for the zoning district. If the Utility
Superintendent can not determine with reasonable certainty that set-backs are
properly observed, the Utility Superintendent may request, and the owner shall,
at the owner’s expense, locate the property lines. It is the property owner’s
responsibility to locate the property lines.
      (3)   If both the City Clerk and Utility Superintendent verify the
application meets the requirements of city code, they can approve the
application.
      (4)   If the application involves issues that cannot be resolved by
contacting the applicant, or if the application involves items that require
approval of the City Council, then the application shall be added to the next
Council meeting agenda to be reviewed by Council for consideration.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990; Ord. 144, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 151.146 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS.
   The City Council is hereby appointed as the Board of Adjustment and Appeals.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.147 DUTIES OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS.
   The Board of Appeals has the following powers and duties with respect to
this chapter:
   (A)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is an error
in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
officer in the enforcement of this chapter; and
   (B)   To hear requests for variances from provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.148 CIRCUMSTANCES FOR GRANTING A VARIANCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.357, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to
time, the Board of Appeals and Adjustments may issue variances from the
provisions of this zoning code. A variance is a modification or variation of
the provisions of this zoning code as applied to a specific piece of property.
A variance from the literal provisions of this zoning code may be granted by
the Board of Appeals and Adjustments only when the variance is in harmony with
the general purposes and intent of the zoning code and the variance is
consistent with the comprehensive plan, if the city has adopted one. A variance
may be granted when the applicant for the variance establishes that there
are practical difficulties in complying with the zoning ordinance. PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES as used in connection with granting a variance, means the property
owner proposes to use the property in a reasonable manner not permitted by the
zoning code; the plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to the
property not created by the landowner; and the variance, if granted, will not
alter the essential character of the locality. Economic considerations alone do
not constitute practical difficulties. Practical difficulties include, but are
not limited to, inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems.
   (B)   Variances shall be granted for earth sheltered construction as defined
in M.S. § 216C.06, subd. 14, as it may be amended from time to time, when in
harmony with this zoning code. The Board of Appeals and Adjustments may not
permit as a variance any use that is not allowed under this zoning code for
property in the zone where the affected person’s land is located. The Board of
Appeals and Adjustments may permit as a variance the temporary use of a one-
family dwelling as a two-family dwelling. The Board of Appeals and Adjustments
may impose conditions in the granting of variances to ensure compliance and to
protect adjacent properties. A condition must be directly related to and must
bear rough proportionality to the impact created by the variance. The variance
shall not become effective until a certified copy is filed by the applicant
with the County Recorder, which shall include the legal description of the
property included.
   (C)   Establishment or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be
allowed by variance.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990; Ord. 144, passed 10-9-2023)  
151.999
§ 151.149 VARIANCES AND APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The procedure for taking action on a variance or an appeal shall be as
follows:
      (1)   An application for a variance or an appeal of the requirement,
decision or determination of an administrative officer shall be filed with the
City Clerk stating the practical difficulties claimed. A certificate of survey
or drawing may be required to be part of the findings and records.
      (2)   The request shall be referred to the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals for consideration and public hearing.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall cause to be published, a
notice of public hearing, in the official newspaper at least ten days prior to
the date of the hearing.
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall cause the adjoining
property owners to the site of the proposal to be notified by letter at least
ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
      (5)   Within 60 days, the Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall hold the
public hearing, make its order deciding the matter and shall serve a copy of
the order upon the appellant or petitioner by mail.
      (6)   The decisions of the Board of Adjustment and Appeals are final
subject to judicial review in the District Court.
      (7)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall provide for a record of
its proceedings which shall include the minutes of its meetings, its findings,
and the action taken on each matter heard by it, including the final order.
      (8)   The City Clerk will provide a certified copy of a variance granted,
including the legal description of the property involved, to the applicant, who
shall file the variance with the County Recorder of the county in which the
municipality is located.
   (B)   The following rates are adopted to implement the provisions of this
chapter.
      (1)   A person filing for a zoning variance causes the need for a public
hearing to be held. It also causes the need for all property owners within a
350-foot radius of the site to be notified in writing of the public hearing.
The applicant shall pay the costs of publication and mailing.
      (2)   A fee per occurrence shall be charged to each person who applies
for a land use permit. Fees shall be set by the City Council by ordinance.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990; Res. passed 11-13-1995; Ord. 144, passed 10-9-
2023)
§ 151.150 PLANNING COMMISSION.
    The City Council is hereby designated to assume the duties of the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.151 DUTIES OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Engage in land use planning activities;
   (B)   Prepare and adopt zoning ordinance;
   (C)   Review and act on all requests for amendments to this chapter and
conditional use permits; and
   (D)   Hold public hearings on the above.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.152 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   A conditional use listed in this chapter may be permitted, enlarged or
altered in accordance with the standards and conditions of this chapter.
   (B)   Also, no conditional use shall be permitted unless the City Council
shall find:
      (1)   The conditional use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted;
      (2)   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of surrounding vacant property for
predominant uses in the area;
      (3)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided;
      (4)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide sufficient
off-street parking and loading space to serve the proposed use;
      (5)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to prevent or control
offensive odor, fumes, dust, noise and vibration, so that none of these will
constitute a nuisance, and to control lighted signs and other lights in such a
manner that no disturbance to neighboring properties will result;
      (6)   Proper facilities are provided which would eliminate any traffic
congestion or traffic hazard which may result from the proposed use;
      (7)   The demonstrated need for the proposed use;
      (8)   The proposed use is in compliance with any Land Use Plan adopted by
the city; and
      (9)   Proof of compliance with applicable state codes and; regulations
and any inspections connected therewith. Examples include, but are not limited
to, the following: the State Department of Health regulates food services and
campgrounds; lodging facilities have state safety regulations; day care
services have state license requirements and there is a State Electrical Code.
   (C)   In addition to those standards and requirements expressly specified by
this chapter, additional conditions considered necessary to protect the best
interests of the surrounding area or the city as a whole, may be imposed.
   (D)   The conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Ingress and egress to the property and proposed structures thereon
with particular reference to automotive and pedestrian safety and convenience,
traffic flow and control, and access in case of fire or catastrophe;
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading areas where required with particular
attention to the items in number on above and the economic, noise, glare or
odor effects of the conditional use on adjoining properties and properties
generally in the area;
      (3)   Refuse and service areas, with particular reference to the items in
one and two above;
      (4)   Utilities, with reference to locations, availability and
compatibility;
      (5)   Screening and buffering with reference to type, dimensions and
character;
      (6)   Signs if any, and proposed exterior lighting with reference to
glare, traffic safety, economic effect and compatibility and harmony with
properties in the district;
      (7)   Required yards and other open space; and
      (8)   General compatibility with adjacent properties and other property
in the area.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.153 CONDITIONAL USE PROCEDURE.
   The procedure for taking action on a conditional use application shall be as
follows.
   (A)   An application for a conditional use permit shall be filed with the
City Clerk.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by a site plan of the proposed
use showing such information as may be necessary or desirable, including, but
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Site plan drawn to scale showing parcel and building dimensions;
      (2)   Location of all buildings and their square footage;
      (3)   Curb cuts, driveways, access roads parking spaces and off-street
loading areas;
      (4)   Existing topography;
      (5)   Finished grading and drainage plan;
      (6)   Sanitary sewer and water plan with estimated use per day;
      (7)   Soil type of soil limitations for the intended use; and
      (8)   A map showing all principal land use within 250 feet.
   (C)   The application and related file shall be referred to the City Council
for study concerning the effect of the proposed use on the land use plan and on
the character and development of the neighborhood.
   (D)   The City Council shall cause to be published a notice of public
hearing in the official newspaper at least ten days prior to the date of
hearing.
   (E)   The City Council shall cause all property owners within 350 feet of
the site of the proposal, to be notified by letter notice at least ten days
prior to the date of the hearing.
   (F)   The City Council shall hold the public hearing, and within a
reasonable time, make its order deciding the matter and shall serve a copy of
the order upon the appellant or petitioner by mail.
   (G)   Any use permitted under the terms of any conditional use permit shall
be established and conducted in conformity to the terms of the permit and of
any conditions designated in connection therewith. Noncompliance could result
in termination of the conditional use permit.
   (H)   A conditional use permit issued hereunder shall become void one year
after it was granted unless made use of.
   (I)   A conditional use permit shall remain in effect as long as the
conditions agreed upon are observed, but nothing shall prevent the city from
enacting or amending this chapter to change the status of conditional uses.
   (J)   A certified copy of any conditional use permit shall be filed with the
County Recorder in which the city is located for record. The conditional use
permit shall include the legal description of the property included.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.154 AMENDMENTS.
   An amendment to the text of this chapter or to a zone boundary may be
initiated by the City Council, the City Planning Commission, or by petition of
an affected property owner. A petition by a property owner shall be filed with
the City Clerk.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.155 AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
   The procedure for taking action on an amendment to this chapter shall be as
follows.
   (A)   All petitions for taking action on an amendment to this chapter shall
be as follows: the City Council shall cause to be published a notice of public
hearing in the official newspaper at least ten days prior to the date of the
hearing. When the petition involves changes in zone boundaries affecting an
area of five acres or less, a similar notice shall be mailed at least ten days
before the day of the hearing to each owner of affected property and property
situated wholly or partly within 350 feet of the property to which the petition
relates.
   (B)   For the purpose of giving mailed notice, the person responsible for
mailing the notice may use any appropriate records to determine the names and
addresses of owners. A copy of the notice and a list of the owners and
addresses to which the notice was sent shall be attested to by the responsible
person and shall be made a part of the records of the proceedings. The failure
to give mailed notice to individual property owners, or defects in the notice
shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided, a bona fide attempt was made to
comply.
   (C)   The City Council shall hold the public hearing and make a decision
within 60 days from the date of the hearings.
   (D)   No petition or a property owner for an amendment to the ordinance
shall be considered by the city within the one-year period immediately
following a previous denial of the request, except the city may consider a new
petition if in the opinion of the Planning Commission new evidence or a change
of circumstances warrant it.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
§ 151.156 AMENDMENT DECISION PROCESS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for re-zoning or zoning amendment by
the City Clerk, a copy of the completed application shall be forwarded to the
City Council for review and study.
   (B)   The City Council, or a delegation thereof, shall view the area being
considered.
   (C)   The City Council shall, prior to making a decision on the application,
consider the following:
      (1)   Would the granting of the request conform to the presently accepted
future land use plans for the city as well as present land uses.
      (2)   Is it in the community’s best interest for additional land space to
be zoned to the class requested.
      (3)   If it is in the community’s best interest for additional land to be
zoned as requested, should the re-zoning be done in areas requested or would
the community’s interest be better served if the re-zoning were done in other
areas of the city.
      (4)   Would the granting of the re-zoning request adversely affect
property values of adjacent landowners to an unreasonable degree.
      (5)   If the request was granted, what additional public services would
be required.
      (6)   Is the capacity of existing roads and sewer and water facilities
sufficient to accommodate this proposal.
      (7)   Was there an error or oversight in preparing the original zoning
map which indicates that this zoning should have been included at that time.
      (8)   Is this change beneficial to the community or is it merely a
convenience to the applicant.
   (D)   The City Council shall make written findings of fact supporting its
decision, and it shall make a decision either granting or denying the
application within 60 days of receiving a complete application.
(Ord. 143, passed 6-12-2023)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.170 LAND USE PERMITS.
   No person shall erect, alter or move any building (a structure with a roof
and walls and being of a minimum of 100 square feet in size) or part thereof
without first securing a land use permit therefor. No liability shall be
incurred by the city upon the granting thereof.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990; Ord. 116, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 144, passed 10-9-
2023) Penalty, see §  
151.999
§ 151.171 FEES.
   Any person applying for a land use permit, filing a petition for an
amendment to this chapter, requesting a variance, conditional use permit or a
change in regulations within any district shall pay a prescribed fee according
to a schedule established by the City Council. Fees shall be set annually by
the City Council by resolution or ordinance.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990; Ord. 144, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, be
subject to a fine and/or imprisonment. Each day that a violation is permitted
to exist shall constitute a separate offense. The city may through the issuance
of an injunction stop any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 75, passed 12-27-1990)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   REZONING
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
27   2-21-  Amends § 2 of Ord. 18; transmission lines and electric distribution
     1935   system
30   9-4-   Grants franchise to North States Power Company; pole lines,
     1941   transmission lines, electric distribution system
43   2-11-  Grants franchise to Northern States Power Company; transmission
     1960   lines and electric distribution system
18   2-11-  Grants franchise to Northern States Power Company; transmission
     1980   lines and electric distribution system
69   10-14- Grants cable television franchise to WCS, Inc.
     1985
85   2-8-   Grants franchise to North States Power Company; pole lines,
     2000   transmission lines, electric distribution system
86   2-12-  Grants franchise to Mediacom Minnesota, LLC. for a cable
     2001   communication system
117  12-14- Grants gas energy franchise to United Natural Gas, LLC.
     2015
123  12-12- Grants franchise to RS Fiber Coop for a cable system
     2016
124  4-11-  Renews franchise with Mediacom Minnesota, LLC, for a cable
     2017   communications system
     2-10-  Granting to Northern States Power Company permission to construct,
150  2025   operate, repair, and maintain an electric distribution system and
            transmission lines.
           
 
TABLE II: REZONING
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
66       7-31-1984   Addition to Ord. 42; parcel of land rezoned from
                     Residential to Industrial
                     Rezoning the certain real property legally described as
136      10-11-2021  Lots 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13 from the Residential
                     (R1) district to the Commercial (C) district
141      1-9-2023    Rezoning two parcels from the Residential (R1) district to
                     the Commercial (C) district
                     Rezoning parts of Lots 11 through 13 and part of the
149      11-13-2024  vacated alley located in Block 9 from the commercial (C)
                     district to the residential (R1) district
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section          Code Section
14.57 to 14.69        111.33,
                      111.99
                      113.13,
                      113.28,
14.57 through 14.69   113.49,
                      113.51,
                      113.99
18.77, Subd. 8        92.37
18.83, Subd. 2        92.37
Chapter 88            51.03
Chapter 152           113.25
157.16                111.03
Chapter 168B          92.09
168.13                92.06
                      33.03,
Chapter 169           70.01,
                      70.99
169.42                71.03
169.999               10.98
216B.097              50.04
216C.06, Subd. 14     151.148
Chapter 216D          112.06
Chapter 238           112.01
272.67                33.01
325E.02               52.07
Chapter 329           110.03
                      111.02,
Chapter 340A          111.20,
                      111.33,
                      111.99
340A.101              111.03,
                      111.19
340A.404              111.19
340A.404, Subd. 5     111.19
340A.408              111.20
340A.409              111.22
340A.414              111.32
340A.504              111.19,
                      111.30
340A.509              111.04
Chapter 343           91.11
347.50 to 347.56      91.11
347.51                91.11
347.515               91.11
347.52                91.11
347.542, Subd. 1      91.11
347.55(a)             91.11
347.55(b)             91.11
366.011               34.30
366.012               34.30
412.02                30.01
412.221, Subd. 23     33.02
415.01                34.30
415.1                 30.03
                      33.02,
429.061               50.06,
                      92.10
429.071               50.06
429.081               50.06
                      92.09,
429.101               92.10,
                      92.43
437.02                110.03
462.357, Subd. 6      151.148
462.3593              151.008
462.3593, Subd. 9     151.008
463.15 through 463.26 92.09
471.62                93.01
507.02, Subd. 4       93.04
609.321 to 322        113.25
611A.80               113.25
626.862               10.20
631.48                10.99
342.13(c)             151.009
342.22                151.009
152.0263, Subd. 5     151.009
462.357               151.009
342.01                151.009
342.01, Subd. 50      151.009
342.17                151.009
245.462, Subd. 23     151.009
120A.05               151.009
120A.24               151.009
462.357, Subd. 1e     151.009
151.066-151.097       151.009
                      
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        11-13-1995  151.149
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
27       2-21-1935   TSO, Table I
30       9-4-1941    TSO, Table I
                     130.01 -
                     130.08,
                     130.25 -
                     130.29,
35       11-10-1955  130.40 -
                     130.47,
                     130.60 -
                     130.65,
                     130.99
43       2-11-1960   TSO, Table I
48       12-12-1969  30.01
53       9-5-1973    30.02
56       7-3-1974    70.01,
                     70.99
59       10-10-1977  90.02
18       2-11-1980   TSO, Table I
63       8-13-1982   90.05,
                     90.99
66       7-31-1984   TSO, Table II
67       12-10-1984  33.01
69       10-14-1985  TSO, Table I
70       5-12-1986   90.03
71       5-12-1986   130.09
                     151.001 -
                     151.007,
                     151.020 -
                     151.024,
                     151.035 -
                     151.038,
                     151.050 -
                     151.053,
                     151.065 -
                     151.068,
                     151.080 -
75       12-27-1990  151.083,
                     151.095 -
                     151.098,
                     151.110,
                     151.111,
                     151.125 -
                     151.133,
                     151.145 -
                     151.155,
                     151.170,
                     151.171,
                     151.999
                     31.01 through
76       4-25-1991   31.14,
                     31.30 through
                     31.35
                     53.01 through
80       4-11-1994   53.12,
                     53.99
81       9-12-1995   112.01 through
                     112.10
85       2-8-2000    TSO, Table I
86       2-12-2001   TSO, Table I
87       8-13-2001   151.038
                     111.01 -
                     111.04,
90       7-8-2002    111.15 -
                     111.33,
                     111.99
92       11-18-2002  150.01 -
                     150.03
                     113.01 -
                     113.13,
                     113.25 -
93       11-18-2002  113.28,
                     113.40 -
                     113.51,
                     113.99
94       2-9-2004    50.01 -
                     50.06
96       11-8-2004   151.133
97       1-9-2006    33.02
100      - -2008     93.01 -
                     93.05
                     71.01 -
101      2-8-2010    71.06,
                     71.99
102      3-14-2011   90.01
105      - -2013     91.01 -
                     91.10
104      7-8-2013    52.01 -
                     52.14
107      9-9-2013    33.03
108      3-24-2014   32.01 -
                     32.04
109      2-9-2015    53.09
110      2-9-2015    50.02
111      2-9-2015    51.01 -
                     51.03
112      2-9-2015    52.08,
                     52.09
113      6-8-2015    33.04
114      6-8-2015    52.07
115      10-12-2015  53.05
116      11-9-2015   151.170
117      12-14-2015  TSO, Table I
118      2-8-2016    33.05
120      7-12-2016   151.008
119      8-8-2016    53.05
121      8-8-2016    50.02
122      11-14-2016  Adopting Ordinance
123      12-12-2016  TSO, Table I
124      4-11-2017   TSO, Table I
125      2-12-2018   33.05
126      4-9-2018    50.01
127      12-10-2018  Adopting Ordinance
128      4-8-2019    151.134
129      5-13-2019   30.03
130      11-12-2019  Adopting Ordinance
131      3-9-2020    71.03
132      10-12-2020  91.11
133      12-14-2020  Adopting Ordinance
                     92.09,
134      9-13-2021   92.35 -
                     92.43
135      9-13-2021   Adopting Ordinance
136      10-11-2021  TSO, Table II
137      12-13-2021  33.05
138      3-3-2022    33.05
140      10-10-2022  Adopting Ordinance
141      1-9-2023    TSO, Table II
142      2-13-2023   33.05
143      6-12-2023   151.156
                     151.007,
                     151.038,
                     151.053,
                     151.111,
144      10-9-2023   151.133,
                     151.145,
                     151.148,
                     151.149,
                     151.170,
                     151.171
145      2-12-2024   Adopting Ordinance
146      3-11-2024   33.05
147      6-10-2024   151.003
148      8-12-2024   33.04
149      11-13-2024  TSO, Table II
150      2-10-2025   TSO, Table I
                     151.009,
                     151.066,
151      3-10-2025   151.067,
                     151.081,
                     151.097
                    
 
