LAKE ST. CROIX BEACH, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Local Legislation Ord. 2023-06, passed 8-21-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
 
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   Code violation and enforcement procedures
   
Appendix A: Notice of code violation
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known, and designated as the
"Lake St. Croix Beach City Code," for which designation "code of ordinances,"
"codified ordinances" or "code" may be substituted. Code title, chapter and
section headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the
code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "Traffic Code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   CITY. Lake St. Croix Beach, Minnesota.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Lake St. Croix Beach.
   COUNTY. Washington County.
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of Lake St. Croix Beach.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, or other group acting as a unit. It also includes any executor,
administrator, trustee, receiver, or other representative appointed by law.
Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section prescribing a penalty or time,
it shall include the partners or members of any partnership or corporation,
and, as to corporation, the officers, agents, or members thereof who are
responsible for the violation.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Tangible or intangible, real, personal, or mixed property.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Minnesota.
   STREET. Any public way, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, alley, or other
public thoroughfare. Each of said words shall include the others, and, if the
context permits, shall also include "sidewalks."
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
   (B)   Other definitions. Certain chapters of this code contain other
definitions applicable particularly to such chapters. In case of any conflict
between the definitions in division (A) above and such other definitions, the
other definitions shall prevail in the chapters where applicable.
   (C)   State definitions to apply. Unless clearly in conflict with
definitions or other provisions of this code, or otherwise clearly
inapplicable, definitions established for the state by statutes or case law
shall apply to this code.
   (D)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk-Administrator for public inspection. The City Clerk-Administrator shall
provide a copy for sale for a reasonable charge in accordance with the current
city fee schedule, as amended
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code
of ordinances, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting the code
of ordinances, all future supplements are hereby adopted as if they had been in
existence at the time this code was enacted, unless there is clear intention
expressed in the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city's Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk-Administrator shall have the authority to administer and
enforce this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain
individuals designated within the code or by the City Clerk-Administrator or
City Council shall have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions
specified. All and any person or persons designated may issue a citation in
lieu of arrest or continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk-Administrator and any city official or employee
designated by this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this
code may with the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any
property or resident of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises,
inspect or otherwise enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk-Administrator, peace officer, or any employee or official charged with
the duty of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that
probable cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court
of competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before
conducting the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant
shall be only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as
a result of the warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable
cause to issue the warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable.
Probable cause does not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a
particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of
property within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or
entrance to the property by the City Clerk-Administrator or any other
authorized city officer or employee only to determine whether the provisions of
this code enacted to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are
being complied with and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to
permit the inspection of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for
termination of any and all permits, licenses, or city service to the property.
Mailed notice shall be given to the licensee, owner, resident, or other person
in control of the property, stating the grounds for the termination, and the
licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of the property shall be
given an opportunity to appear before the City Clerk-Administrator to object to
the termination before it occurs, subject to appeal of the City Clerk-
Administrator's decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or
special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare.
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in § 10.20, the City Council is authorized
to create by resolution, adopted by a majority of the members of the Council,
supplemental administrative penalties. Such resolution may not proscribe
administrative penalties for traffic offenses designated by M.S. § 169.999, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Clerk-Administrator, or
other person giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code,
in a written notice of an alleged violation, sent by first class mail to the
person who is alleged to have violated the code, the person giving notice may
request the payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation
directly to the City Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of the violation. A
sample notice is contained in
Appendix A to this chapter. In the sole discretion of the person giving the
notice of the alleged violation, the time for payment may be extended an
additional 14 days, whether or not requested by the person to whom the notice
has been given. In addition to the administrative penalty, the person giving
notice may request in the notice to the alleged violator to adopt a compliance
plan to correct the situation resulting in the alleged violation and may
provide that if the alleged violator corrects the situation resulting in the
alleged violation within the time specified in the notice, that the payment of
the administrative penalty will be waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
§ 10.99 CODE VIOLATION AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE
   (A)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Violate, fail to comply with, or assist, authorize or permit the
violation of any provision of the Lake St. Croix Beach City Code.
      (2)   Violate, fail to comply with, or assist, authorize, or permit the
violation of the terms and conditions of any city approval, including permits
and licenses, required, and granted pursuant to the City Code.
      (3)   Knowingly make or submit any false statement, document, or material
omission in connection with any application or procedure required by the City
Code.
   (B)   Construction regarding employees. No section or part of the City Code
designating the duties of any official, employee, or appointee of the city
shall be construed to make that person liable for the penalties provided below.
   (C)   Misdemeanor. Any person who violates division (A) of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished
in accordance with Minnesota Statute 609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be amended from
time to time; provided, however, that if a different punishment be prescribed
in the City Code, such provision shall govern the punishment for that
violation, but in either case, the cost of prosecution may be added pursuant to
Minn. Stat. §631.48.
   (D)   Petty misdemeanor. Specific mention of a violation of any of the
provisions of the City Code as being a petty misdemeanor shall mean that, upon
conviction, the sentence of a fine in accordance with Minnesota Statute 609.02
Subd. 4amay be imposed, but in either case, the cost of prosecution may be
added pursuant to Minn. Stat. §631.48. In the absence of the designation of a
"petty misdemeanor" in connection with any violation, such violation shall be a
misdemeanor as set forth in division of this section.
   (E)   Continued violation. Each calendar day that division (A) of this
section is violated shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   Application denial; permit revocation. Any violation of division (A)
of this section shall constitute sufficient grounds for denial of any
application required by this code or revocation of a permit which is related to
the violation.
   (G)   City may void approval, license, or permit. Any action prohibited by
division (A) of this section shall, at the option of the city, void any
applicable city approval, permit or license previously given.
   (H)   Abatement of violation. The city attorney may institute any lawful
action or proceeding in the name of the City of Lake St. Croix Beach to
prevent, restrain, remedy, or abate any violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (I)   Penalties cumulative. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the city
from taking such other actions as are permitted under law, and the penalties
provided here shall be cumulative.
   (J)   Application. Divisions (K) through (M) of this section shall govern
administrative citations and civil penalties for violations of the City Code.
   (K)   Administrative citations and alternative enforcement methods.
      (1)   The city council finds that there is a need for alternate methods
of enforcing the City Code. While criminal fines and penalties have been the
most frequent enforcement mechanism, there are certain negative consequences
for both the city and the accused. The delay inherent in that system does not
ensure prompt resolution. Citizens resent being labeled as criminals for
violations of administrative regulations. The higher burden of proof and the
potential of incarceration do not appear appropriate for some administrative
violations. The criminal process does not always regard City Code violations as
being important. Accordingly, the city council finds that the use of
administrative citations and the imposition of civil penalties is a legitimate
and necessary alternative method of enforcement. This method of enforcement
shall be in addition to any other legal remedy which may be pursued for City
Code violations.
      (2)   The administrative offense procedures established pursuant to this
chapter are intended to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost
effective, and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for
violations of certain ordinance provisions. The procedures are intended to be
voluntary on the part of those who have been charged with the administrative
offenses. At any time prior to the payment of the administrative penalty as is
provided for hereafter, the individual may withdraw from participation in the
procedures, in which event the city may bring criminal charges in accordance
with law. Likewise, the city, in its discretion, may choose not to initiate an
administrative offense and may bring criminal charges in the first or
succeeding instances.
   (L)   Administrative citation procedure.
      (1)   A violation of any provision of the City Code or the acts
prohibited in division (A) of this section, is an administrative offense which
may be subject to an administrative citation and civil penalties pursuant to
this chapter. Each day a violation exists constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Any officer of the Washington County Sheriff’s Office or any other
person appointed by the city, authorized in writing by the city administrator
shall, upon determining that there has been a violation, notify the violator,
or in the case of a vehicular violation, attach to the vehicle a notice of the
violation. The notice shall set forth the nature, date and time of violation,
the name of the official issuing the notice, and the amount of the scheduled
penalty.
      (3)   Once such notice is given, the alleged violator may, within seven
days of the time of issuance of the notice, pay the amount set forth on the
schedule of penalties for the violation as adopted by the city council
resolution from time to time, or may request a hearing in writing, as is
provided for hereafter. The penalty may be paid in person or by mail, and
payment shall be deemed to be an admission of the violation.
      (4)   Any person contesting an administrative offense pursuant to this
chapter may, within seven days of the time of issuance of the notice, request a
hearing by a hearing officer who shall forthwith conduct an informal hearing to
determine if a violation has occurred.
      (5)   A person designated in writing by the city administrator shall be
the hearing officer. The Administrator, in his/her discretion, may refer the
matter to the City Council for public hearing, to act as the hearing officer.
The designated hearing officer is authorized to hear and determine any
controversy relating to administrative offenses provided for in this chapter.
      (6)   The violator shall have the right to be represented by counsel, the
right to respond to the charged violations, and the right to present evidence
through witnesses. The rules of evidence do not apply to the hearing and the
hearing officer may rely on all evidence it determines to be reasonably
credible. The determination to uphold or dismiss the violation shall be made
upon a preponderance of the evidence.
      (7)   The hearing officer shall have authority to dismiss the violation
or reduce or waive the penalty. If the violation is sustained by the hearing
officer, the violator shall pay the penalty imposed within seven days or
withdraw from participation in the administrative procedure by notice in
writing.
   (M)   Recovery of civil penalties.
      (1)   If a civil penalty is not paid within the time specified, it shall
constitute;
         (a)   A lien upon the real property upon which the violation occurred
if the property or improvements on the property was the subject of the
violation and the property owner was found responsible for that violation; or
         (b)   A personal obligation of the violator in all other situations.
      (2)   A lien may be assessed against the property and collected in the
same manner as taxes.
      (3)   A personal obligation may be collected by any appropriate legal
means.
      (4)   A late payment fee to ten percent of the fine shall be assessed for
each 30-day period, or part thereof, that the fine remains unpaid after the due
date.
      (5)   Failure to pay a fine is grounds for suspending or revoking a
license or permit or other approval associated with the violation.
   (N)   Criminal penalties. The following are misdemeanors, punishable in
accordance with state law.
      (1)   Failure to pay a fine or request a hearing within seven days after
issuance of an administrative citation.
      (2)   Failure to appear at a hearing which was scheduled.
      (3)   Failure to pay a fine imposed by a hearing officer within seven
days after it was imposed, or such other time as may be established by the
hearing officer.
   (O)   Collection of fees.
      (1)   Except as otherwise prohibited by State Statute, the City of Lake
St. Croix Beach City Code, or other governing law, no permit or license shall
be issued by the City of Lake St. Croix Beach unless payment has been received
for:
         (a)   Previous permits issued under City Code;
         (b)   Previous licenses issued pursuant to the City Code;
         (c)   Delinquent property taxes;
         (d)   Delinquent special assessments;
         (e)   Penalties;
         (f)   Interest; and
         (g)   Municipal utility fees.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application, and prior to issuing a permit, the
City Clerk-Administrator shall review City records to ensure that there are no
outstanding balances. The review shall include:
         (a)   The subject property and/or any adjacent properties under common
ownership; and
         (b)   The resident and/or members of the resident's immediate family
residing in the same dwelling as the resident.
APPENDIX A
NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
 
To: (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From: (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re: Alleged violation of Section of the City Code, relating to (give title of
section)
Date: (Date of notice)
I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated § _____________ of the
City Code relating to _________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
.
The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in the
amount of $                  for this violation.
Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay it
the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due date,
you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by
___________________________________________ (establish date), then the payment
of the administrative penalty will be waived.
Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or
abate the violation.
Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the
Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to
renew the request for payment. Because the payment of the administrative
penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the
Council.
If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash, or money
order to the City of Lake St. Croix Beach.
Signed:                                                               
(Name and Title of Person Giving Notice)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.    GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.    CITY COUNCIL, OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.    CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   CIVIL DEFENSE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Voter registration
   
30.02   Election date
   
30.03   Fees and Charges
§ 30.01 VOTER REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration system. The system for the permanent registration of
voters provided for by M.S. Chapter 201, as it may be amended from time to
time, is hereby adopted and made part of this section by reference as if fully
set forth herein.
   (B)   Voters must be registered. No person shall be permitted to vote at any
election in the city unless they are registered as provided by state statutes.
§ 30.02 ELECTION DATE.
   The regular city election shall be held biennially on the same day as the
general election for state and national offices.
§ 30.03 FEES AND CHARGES.
   The City Council may enact an ordinance establishing those fees and charges
that are authorized by this code. Until that ordinance becomes effective, all
fees and charges established by ordinance or resolution prior to the adoption
of this code shall remain in effect. All fees and charges established by the
ordinance establishing fees and charges may be amended from time to time by
amendment of that ordinance. Fees paid by check are subject to an NSF Check
fee, in accordance with the current city fee schedule, as amended. should the
check bounce.
CHAPTER 31: CITY COUNCIL, OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Statutory organization; form of government
   
31.02   Compensation of Mayor and Council members
   
31.03   Compensation of advisory committee and board members
City Clerk-Administrator and City Treasurer
   
31.15   Statutory authorization for City Clerk-Administrator
   
31.16   Statutory authorization for City Treasurer
   
31.17   Compensation
   
31.18   Establishment by employment or contract
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 STATUTORY ORGANIZATION; FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   The city is organized under M.S. § 412.572 (1989), as it may be
amended from time to time, as an optional Plan A statutory city.
   (B)   M.S. § 412.581, as it may be amended from time to time, provides, "The
Council is composed of five members consisting of the Mayor and four Council
members, with the City Clerk-Administrator, Treasurer and/or Deputy Clerks
being appointed annually."
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Mayor of the city shall be paid an annual salary of $1,800 per
year and each Council member shall be paid an annual salary of $1,500 per year.
   (B)   The salaries as provided by this section shall be paid annually or
more frequently as directed by the City Council.
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE AND BOARD MEMBERS.
   The Mayor and City Council members, Planning Commission members, Cable
Commission representatives, Joint City representatives, Fire District
representatives and all other special appointed representatives of the city
shall be reimbursed by the city for their attendance, in their official
capacity and in performance of their official duties, whether within or outside
the city. Notwithstanding the above, the Mayor and the City Council members
shall not be reimbursed or paid for attendance at regular Council meetings. In
addition to the established salary of their office, such compensation shall be
in the amount of $10 per meeting or conference. Additional reimbursement shall
be provided for mileage expense at the maximum allowable rate as established by
the Commissioner of Revenue for the Internal Revenue Service, parking expense
and actual costs of meals if authorized by the City Council. All such
reimbursement expenses and payment shall be processed by written voucher as
required by statute. The City Council may from time to time, by way of
resolution, adjust, amend, or otherwise modify the manner or the amount of
reimbursement for expenses provided by this section. Should any city
representative be directly reimbursed from the board or commission on which
they are a member on behalf of the city, the compensation otherwise provided by
the city shall be offset by the amount so directly paid such representative by
the board or commission on which they serve.
CITY CLERK-ADMINISTRATOR AND CITY TREASURER
§ 31.15 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION FOR CITY CLERK-ADMINISTRATOR.
   The city shall have a City Clerk-Administrator who shall serve at the
direction and pleasure of the City Council and shall perform the duties of City
Clerk-Administrator as outlined within M.S. § 412.151, subd. 1, as it may be
amended from time to time, and as directed by the City Council from time to
time. The city has elected to reverse the combination of the offices of the
City Clerk-Administrator and the City Treasurer and establish separate offices
for the City Clerk-Administrator and City Treasurer.
§ 31.16 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION FOR CITY TREASURER.
   There shall be a City Treasurer who shall serve at the direction and the
pleasure of the City Council. The duties of City Treasurer shall be those
identified within M.S. § 412.141, as it may be amended from time to time, and
such other assignments and duties as may be allocated and assigned by the
directive of the City Council from time to time.
§ 31.17 COMPENSATION.
   The positions of City Clerk-Administrator and City Treasurer shall be
compensated in a manner established by resolution of the City Council from time
to time.
§ 31.18 ESTABLISHMENT BY EMPLOYMENT OR CONTRACT.
   City Council may establish the positions of City Clerk-Administrator and/or
City Treasurer either as employment positions or positions to be filled via
independent contract or consultant services. If either or both positions are
filled by way of independent contract, any such contract shall be for terms of
not more than two years in length.
CHAPTER 32: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
32.01   Establishment
   
32.02   Composition
   
32.03   Meetings
   
32.04   Organization
   
32.05   Powers and duties
Park Board; Technical Committee
   
32.20   Establishment
   
32.21   Composition
   
32.22   Meetings
   
32.23   Organization; rules
   
32.24   Powers and duties
   
32.25   Park Technical Committee
Building Department
   
32.40   Creation
   
32.41   Building Official; powers and duties
   
32.42   Inspectors
   
32.43   Conflict of interest
   
32.44   Reports and records
   
32.45   Right of entry
   
32.46   Stop orders
   
32.47   Occupancy violations
   
32.48   Liability
   
32.49   Cooperation of other officials
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations, see
Chapter 150
   Parks and Recreation, see
Chapter 91
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
There is hereby established a Planning Commission for the city.
§ 32.02 COMPOSITION.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of six members as follows.
   (A)   There may be two Council members designated by the Mayor, with the
consent of the City Council, one to be a principal and the other to be an
alternate member of the Planning Commission. Such Council members may serve
without voting power in a liaison capacity. The Mayor may also be considered an
ex officio member of the Planning Commission without voting privilege.
   (B)   The five other members of the Planning Commission may be appointed by
the City Council each to serve annually and to be appointed by the City Council
at its regular meeting in January of each year. Any member of the Planning
Commission may be removed by a four-fifths vote of the City Council at any time
with or without cause.
§ 32.03 MEETINGS.
   The Planning Commission may hold at least one regular meeting each month. It
may adopt rules for the transaction of business and may keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, and findings which record shall be a public record.
§ 32.04 ORGANIZATION.
   The Planning Commission may elect a Chairperson from among its appointed
members for a term of one year, and the Commission may create and fill such
other offices as it may determine. The Commission may also appoint one of its
members to act as Secretary and keep a record of the minutes of each of its
meetings.
§ 32.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consider and make recommendations on all
matters affecting zoning and building regulations and land development,
drainage concerns and street improvements as provided by law and as may be
contained within this code of ordinances or as may be referred to it by the
City Council from time to time. All recommendations made by the Planning
Commission shall take into consideration the best interest of the city.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall carry on city planning activities and
recommend such plans for the regulation of future physical development of the
city, including land use and building construction.
PARK BOARD; TECHNICAL COMMITTEE
§ 32.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Park Board for the city.
§ 32.21 COMPOSITION.
   Such Park Board shall consist of seven members as follows.
   (A)   There shall be two Council members designated by the Mayor, with the
consent of the City Council, to serve as members of the Park Board. Such
Council members shall serve without voting power in a liaison capacity. The
Mayor shall also be considered an ex officio member of the Park Board.
   (B)   The five other members of the Park Board shall be appointed by the
City Council, at its regular January meeting, to serve annually for that year.
Any member of the Park Board may be removed by a simple majority of the City
Council at any time, with or without cause.
§ 32.22 MEETINGS.
   The Park Board shall meet at least once per month as needed at the call of
its Chairperson.
§ 32.23 ORGANIZATION; RULES.
   (A)   The Park Board shall elect a Chairperson from among its appointed
members for a term of one year, and the Park Board may create such other
offices as it may determine from time to time. It shall also select from among
its appointed members a Secretary to keep recorded minutes of all of its
regular and special meetings.
   (B)   The Park Board shall adopt the rules for the transaction of business
before it and shall record its minutes, resolutions, transactions and findings,
which record shall be a public record.
§ 32.24 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Park Board shall consider and make recommendations on all matters
affecting management, development, and planning of city parks to the City
Council. The Park Board shall also review all applications to the city for dock
or mooring permits and make recommendation to the City Council regarding same.
The Park Board shall also review moorings and dock facilities licensed by the
city to determine technical compliance with the regulations and ordinances of
the city affecting same and report to the City Council for the city any dock or
mooring which is not in compliance with city ordinance requirements.
§ 32.25 PARK TECHNICAL COMMITTEE.
   As a subcommittee of the Park Board, there may be appointed by the Mayor and
the Chairperson of the Park Board three city residents, who may also be members
of the Park Board, to serve on the Park Technical Committee. The Park Technical
Committee shall assist the Park Board by making site reviews, mooring and
docking facility inspections, and/or other such tasks as may be assigned to it
by the Chairperson and the Mayor from time to time. Like the Park Board
members, the members of the Park Technical Committee shall serve annually
within the year of their appointment.
BUILDING DEPARTMENT
§ 32.40 CREATION.
   There is hereby established in the municipality the Building Department
which shall be under the jurisdiction of the Building Official designated by
the City Council.
§ 32.41 BUILDING OFFICIAL; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Building Official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all the
provisions of the State Building Code.
§ 32.42 INSPECTORS.
   In accordance with the procedure and with the approval of the City Council
the Building Official may appoint such number of inspectors and other employees
as shall be authorized from time to time.
§ 32.43 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Neither the Building Official nor any inspectors shall have any financial
interest in any concern engaged in a business relationship with the city nor
engage in any business relationship with the city within their respective
field.
§ 32.44 REPORTS AND RECORDS.
   The Building Official shall submit a report to the City Council not less
than once a year, covering the work of the Department during the preceding
period. The Building Official shall keep a permanent, accurate account of all
fees and other monies collected and received, the names of the persons upon
whose account the same were paid, the date and the amount thereof together with
the location of the building or premises to which they relate.
§ 32.45 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Official or their duly
authorized representative may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure, or premises in the city to perform any duty imposed upon them by the
State Building Code. No person shall interfere with the Building Official or
their duly authorized representatives in the execution of their duties.
§ 32.46 STOP ORDERS.
   Whenever any building work is being done contrary to the provisions of said
State Building Code, the Building Official may order the work stopped by notice
in writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to
be done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized
by the Building Official to proceed with the work.
§ 32.47 OCCUPANCY VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever any structure is being used contrary to the provisions of said
State Building Code, the Building Official may order such use discontinued and
the structure or portion thereof vacated by notice served on any person causing
such use to be continued. Such person shall discontinue the use within ten days
after receipt of such notice or make the structure, or portion thereof, comply
with the requirements of said State Building Code; provided, however, that in
the event of an unsafe building, §§
150.15 through
150.20 shall apply.
§ 32.48 LIABILITY.
   The Building Official or any employee charged with the enforcement of said
State Building Code, acting in good faith and without malice for the city in
the discharge of their duties, shall not thereby render themself liable
personally and they are hereby relieved from all personal liability for any
damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required
or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of their duties. Any suit
brought against the Building Official or employer, because of such act or
omission performed by them in the enforcement of any provisions of said Code,
shall be defended by the city until final termination of the proceedings.
§ 32.49 COOPERATION OF OTHER OFFICIALS.
   The Building Official may request, and shall receive so far as may be
necessary in the discharge of their duties, the assistance and cooperation of
the other officials of the municipality.
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Policy and Purpose
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Establishment of Emergency Management Organization
   
33.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
33.05   Local emergencies
   
33.06   Emergency regulations
   
33.07   Emergency Management a government function
   
33.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to ensure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city Emergency Management Organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for Emergency Management.
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. Emergency
Management includes those activities sometimes referred to as "civil defense"
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level Emergency Management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city level planning and preparation for Disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to Disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 33.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an Emergency Management
Organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the City Council for an indefinite term and may be removed by the
Council at any time. The Director shall serve with a salary as established by
the City Council and shall be paid their necessary expenses. The Director shall
have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operation
of the Emergency preparedness organization, subject to the direction and
control of the Council. The Emergency Management Organization shall conform to
and be consistent with, where applicable, all state and federal requirements,
including the National Incident Management System framework found at 44 CFR
part 201, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 33.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the city on any regional or state
conference for Emergency Management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual
aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal
Emergency Management aid and assistance in an Emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted and shall present these agreements to the Council for its
action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for Emergency Management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an Emergency or Disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive Emergency plan for the
Emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all Emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
Emergency Management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the Emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with Emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and Emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a Disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the city's Emergency Management
Organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those Emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)    The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
Emergency Management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the Emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
Emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state Emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal Emergency Management Organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure Emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to Emergency Management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on Emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 33.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local Emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or their legal
successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local Emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk-
Administrator
   (B)   A declaration of a local Emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
Disaster plans and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local Emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional Disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared Emergency or to prepare for an
Emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services, Emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of Emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular Emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk-Administrator. A
copy shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during business
hours. Notice of the existence of these regulations and their availability for
inspection at the City Clerk-Administrator's Office shall be conspicuously
posted at the front of the city hall or other headquarters of the city or at
other places in the affected area as the Council shall designate in the
resolution. By resolution, the Council may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the Emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
Emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared Emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.37, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council, acting
within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into contracts and
incur obligations necessary to combat the Disaster by protecting the health and
safety of persons and property and providing Emergency assistance to the
victims of a Disaster. The city may exercise these powers in the light of the
exigencies of the Disaster without compliance with the time consuming
procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the performance of
public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of supplies and
materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and expenditure
of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of resolutions,
publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and rules,
provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to Emergency Management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which they would
otherwise be entitled under this resolution or under the worker's compensation
law, or under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any
benefits or compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 33.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The Emergency Management Organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
33.09-33.98 Reserved.
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official
acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor in accordance
with Minnesota Statute 609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be amended from time to time;
and the cost of prosecution may be added pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 631.48.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.    SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
      
51.    WATER SUPPLY
      
52.    SUBSURFACE INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Purpose
Hauler Regulations
   
50.15   License required
   
50.16   Duties and obligations of licensed Haulers
   
50.17   Frequency of collections
   
50.18   Bond required
   
50.19   Administrative penalties
   
50.20   Contract for collection services
   
50.21   General disposal requirements
   
50.22   Containers
   
50.23   Storage and placement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULKY WASTE. Shall have the meaning set forth in Minnesota Statutes and is a
subset of Municipal Solid Waste. Includes household items and other discarded
materials that due to their dimensions and weight are typically not collected
as part of the regular Garbage and Recycling or for which there is a separate
fee, such as furniture, carpeting, mattresses, and appliances including
electronic devices.
   CITY. City of Lake St. Croix Beach, Washington County, Minnesota.
   COMMERCIAL/BUSINESS. Any premises not primarily used for residential
purposes and where a commercial, community, or industrial enterprise of any
kind is carried on, including restaurants, clubs, churches, and schools.
   COMPOSTING. A method of Recycling Yard Waste by allowing it to decay and
then using it as a soil amendment.
   CONSTRUCTION/DEMOLITION WASTE. Construction materials, packaging and rubble
resulting from construction, remodeling, repair and demolition of Buildings and
roads, as well as Sand, earth, brick, stone, trees, tree branches of more than
two inches in diameter, and tree stumps.
   COUNTY. Washington County, Minnesota.
   DUMPSTER. A metal, composite, or other hard-side container for refuse
disposal between two and 40 yards
   FLEXIBLE DUMPSTER. A vinyl, cloth, or soft-side container for refuse
disposal between two and 40 yards.
   GARBAGE. See MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE.
   HAULER. Any person engaged in the Business of collecting or removing MSW,
Recyclables, Yard Waste, Bulky Waste, SSOM, or construction/demolition waste
for hire.
   HAZARDOUS WASTES. Shall have the meaning defined in Minnesota Statutes.
Wastes are hazardous in Minnesota when they display one or more of these
characteristics: ignitable, oxidizer, corrosive, reactive, toxic, or lethal.
   HOLIDAYS. Shall include only New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July,
Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
   MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE (MSW). Has the meaning set forth in Minnesota
Statutes and shall include Garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash, and other Solid
Waste from residential, commercial, industrial, and community activities that
the generator of the waste aggregates for collection. MSW does not include auto
hulks, street sweepings, ash, construction debris, mining waste, sludges, tree
and agricultural wastes, tires, lead acid batteries, motor and vehicle fluids
and filters, and other materials collected, processed, and disposed of as
separate waste streams. Also referred to as GARBAGE.
   MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Any Building used for residential purposes
consisting of five Dwelling units or more with individual kitchen facilities
for each.
   RECYCLABLES. Shall have the meaning set forth in Minnesota Statutes and
means materials that are separated from MSW for the purpose of Recycling or
Composting, and/or materials which may be recycled or reused through Recycling
processes. At a minimum, the list of RECYCLABLES shall be at least inclusive of
the Washington County Standard List of Residential Curbside Recyclables.
   RECYCLING. Shall have the definition in Minnesota Statutes, and shall mean
the process of collecting and preparing recyclable materials including Yard
Waste and source-separated compostable materials, and reusing the materials in
their original form or using them in Composting or manufacturing processes that
do not cause the destruction of recyclable materials in a manner that precludes
further use.
   RECYCLING CONTAINER. A container provided by the city or the Hauler for use
in a Recycling program.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Any single Building consisting of four or less
Dwelling units with individual kitchen facilities for each.
   ROLL-OFF CONTAINERS. Open top Dumpsters characterized by a rectangular
footprint. The container is designed to be transported by special roll-off
trucks. ROLL-OFF CONTAINERS are commonly used to contain loads of construction
and demolition waste or large amounts of other waste types.
   SOLID WASTE. The general term for MSW, Recyclables, Yard Waste, Bulky Waste,
and source separated organic material.
   SOURCE SEPARATED ORGANIC MATERIALS (SSOM). Shall include food waste and
other compostable organic materials that are source separated for recovery and
as defined in Minnesota Statutes. The term "organics" does not include Yard
Waste for purposes of this chapter. (Also referred to as "food waste/organics"
and "source separated organics").
   SPECIAL PICK UP. Any collection of materials other than MSW, Recyclables, or
Yard Waste or SSOM including Bulky Waste and construction/demolition waste.
   STORAGE/SHIPPING CONTAINER. A metal, composite, or other hard-side container
for storage purposes between two and 40 yards.
   VOLUME BASED BILLING. A graduated rate structure based upon the volume of
Garbage collected from a Residential Dwelling, multiple-Dwelling Residential
Dwellings, or a Commercial enterprise.
   YARD WASTE. Garden wastes, leaves, grass clippings, weeds, small branches,
or other materials as defined by Minnesota Statutes.
§ 50.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare of the residents of the City of Lake St. Croix Beach by licensing and
regulating the hauling of Solid Wastes within the City, which licensing and
regulation the City Council hereby determines to be necessary to ensure the
proper management of Solid Wastes in compliance with the city's Comprehensive
Plan, the Washington County Solid Waste Management Master Plan and any updates
to those plans approved by the city or the county and with the state and/or the
county Recycling and Solid Waste reduction mandates and to eliminate other and
similar health and safety hazards which the Council finds now exist or are to
be anticipated in the absence of such licensing and regulation.
HAULER REGULATIONS
§ 50.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in the business of collecting
or removing MSW, Recyclables, Bulky Wastes, Yard Wastes, SSOM, or construction/
demolition wastes within the City without first having obtained a license from
the City Council. Such license shall be issued by the Council for a period of 1
year under the conditions prescribed within this chapter and upon payment of a
license fee in accordance with the current city fee schedule, as amended. or
such other fee as may be established by resolution of the City Council from
time to time. A license so issued may at the sole discretion of the city be
renewed annually upon the payment of such fee and upon approval by the city. No
licensee pursuant to this chapter shall acquire vested rights in a license. The
city may, upon finding that public necessity requires, establish other means of
MSW, Recyclables, Bulky Waste, Yard Waste, SSOM or construction/demolition
wastes collection. The City Council may for cause revoke or refuse to renew any
license issued hereunder; the violation of any provisions of this chapter by
the licensee shall be cause for the revocation or refusal to renew the license.
If the county revokes or suspends any Hauler's license, the city license, in
case of revocation, shall be automatically terminated without any further
action of the city, or, in case of suspension, the city license shall also be
automatically suspended for the same length of time, without further action of
the city.
   (A)   Any person desiring to be licensed as a licensed Hauler shall make
application to the city on a form prescribed by the city. Each licensed Hauler
operating under a separate name or identity, whether as parent/subsidiary or
brother/sister organizations or as an independent organization, shall apply for
and obtain a separate license prior to collecting MSW, Recyclables, Bulky
Wastes, Yard Waste, SSOM, or construction/demolition wastes.
   (B)   No license shall be issued until the applicant files with the city a
current policy of public liability insurance and property damage insurance upon
each of the trucks or other vehicles to be used by the applicant in the
licensee's Business. The licensee or contractor shall be required to procure
(1) Commercial general liability insurance in the minimum amount of $2,000,000
per occurrence; (2) automobile liability insurance with a minimum combined
single limit of $2,000,000 for bodily injury and property damage including
coverage for owned, hired and non-owned automobiles; and (3) workers'
compensation insurance for all employees in accordance with the statutory
requirements in Minnesota. The licensee or contractor shall hold the city
harmless and agrees to defend and indemnify the city, and the city's employees
and agents, for any claims, damages, losses, and expenses related to the work
under the license or contract. The city shall be named as an additional insured
on the Commercial general liability insurance for the services provided under
the license or contract. The licensee's or contractor's insurance shall be the
primary insurance for the city and the licensee or contractor shall provide a
certificate of insurance on the city's approved form which verifies the
existence of the insurance required, including provisions to hold the city
harmless and defend and indemnify the city. These insurance policies shall be
for the full term of the license or franchise and shall provide for the giving
of ten days prior notice to the city of the termination or cancellation of
these policies. In case notice is received that any policies will be terminated
or cancelled, the license or contract shall be automatically revoked on the
termination or cancellation date unless the licensee or contractor provides
proof that such policies are still in effect or new insurance has been obtained
that meets the city's insurance requirements.
   (C)   The application shall include a list of equipment to be utilized by
the collector. Each vehicle for which a collector's license is issued may be
inspected by the city, at the city's discretion, for conformance with this
chapter.
   (D)   In order to renew a Residential Dwelling/Recycling license, the
licensee must submit to the city a list of all active accounts.
   (E)   No license shall be issued until the applicant files with the city a
schedule of Volume Based Billing rates to be charged by the Hauler during the
license period for which the application is made. Differences between rates
charged for the various Garbage container sizes shall be sufficient to
encourage Recycling and waste reduction in accordance with Minnesota Statutes
and the Washington County Solid Waste Master Plan. Every licensee shall provide
notification to the city and customers at least two weeks prior to any change
in rates to be implemented during the licensed period. Failure to submit the
rates in a timely manner shall render the changed rates void.
§ 50.16 DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF LICENSED HAULERS.
   All persons, firms, or corporations holding a license from the city pursuant
to this section must comply with the following operational requirements.
Failure to observe these provisions shall be a basis for suspension or
revocation of the license.
   (A)   Operating procedures. A licensee shall operate in a manner consistent
with its application materials and provide notice to the city within 15 days of
any change of information, forms, rate structures, or certificates filed as
part of the license application process except for the 30-day notice
requirement on insurance as is found herein.
   (B)   Compliance with laws and regulations. The licensee shall comply with
all state, county, and local laws and regulations.
   (C)   Services to be offered by licensees. In addition to collection of MSW,
the following services shall be offered to all customers:
      (1)   Recycling collection shall be provided to all customers unless
otherwise provided by the city.
      (2)   Bulky Waste collection and processing/disposal shall be provided to
all customers within five business days of request by the customer. An
additional fee may be charged.
      (3)   Yard waste collection and processing/disposal in season shall be
provided to all customers within five business days of request by the customer.
An additional fee may be charged.
      (4)   SSOM collection and processing/disposal may be provided to all
customers. An additional fee may be charged.
   (D)   Collection days and hours. The licensed Hauler shall comply with days
and hours for collection of MSW, Recyclables, Bulky Wastes, Yard Wastes, SSOM,
or construction/demolition wastes as contained in this Ordinance and as
specified by resolution of the City Council from time to time.
      (1)   No collection of Solid Waste Recycling, Bulky Waste, SSOM, Yard
Waste and/or construction/demolition waste shall be made except between the
hours of seven o'clock (7:00) a.m. and six o'clock (6:00) p.m., Monday through
Friday, as established by the Council. Operation during these hours may require
that service be moved back one day to accommodate Holidays. Customers shall be
notified of a specific day for collection of their MSW and Recyclables, and the
licensee shall collect the materials within those time periods.
      (2)   Commercial/multiple Dwelling collection of Solid Waste and
construction/demolition waste shall be made at least once a week between the
hours of seven o'clock (7:00) a.m. and six o'clock (6:00) p.m., and on any day
of the week and as often as is necessary to protect the public's health.
      (3)   Residential "Special Pick Up" as defined in §
50.01 of this chapter may take place on any day, Monday through Saturday, seven
o'clock (7:00) a.m. to six o'clock (6:00) p.m., as arranged by the property
Owner and licensed Hauler.
      (4)   Stops reported by customers and verified as missed shall be
collected within two business days of the miss being reported.
   (E)   Vehicles and equipment. Each licensed Hauler shall only use vehicles
and equipment so constructed that the contents shall not leak, spill, or blow
out of the vehicle. The vehicles and equipment shall be kept clean and as free
from offensive odors as possible, and shall not stand on any street, alley, or
public place longer than is reasonably necessary to collect MSW, Recyclables,
Bulky Wastes, Yard Wastes, SSOM, or construction/demolition wastes. Each
vehicle for which a collector's license is issued shall exhibit such license in
a prominent position on said vehicle.
   (F)   Collection Site and cleanup of spills. The licensee shall ensure that
the collection Site is left tidy and free of litter. Any spills, including
spills of Solid Wastes, vehicle or waste fluids, or hydraulic fluids shall be
cleaned up immediately. If not noticed by the Hauler, spills that the city
provides notice to the Hauler of shall be cleaned within two hours of notice by
the city.
   (G)   Reports. Each licensed Hauler shall compile and retain MSW, Recycling,
Bulky Waste, SSOM, Yard Waste, and construction/demolition waste weight slips
and other data. Failure to certify accurate weights may be cause for revocation
of the hauling license. All licensees shall submit to the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency (MPCA), the county, and other required reporting entities in the
future required MSW, Recycling, and other waste data in compliance with the
MPCA's and the county's reporting requirements. Failure to submit the reports
shall be cause for license suspension. In addition, the Hauler shall, when
requested by the city, furnish the city with copies of reports that are
submitted to reporting entities. Failure to keep accurate weights and/or to
furnish this data to the required reporting entities or the city within 30
business days of it being due shall entitle the city to impose liquidated
damages and/or revoke the collection license.
      (1)   Upon demand of the city, the licensee shall produce any records,
which the city may require to verify that all MSW, Recyclables, Bulky Waste,
SSOM and Yard Waste have been disposed of in a lawful manner. Each licensed
Hauler shall provide to the city during normal business hours, access to books,
documents, papers, and other records of the licensee that are directly
pertinent to the issuance and monitoring of the license and required reports.
In addition, all licensed Haulers shall report to the city such information as
shall be required by the City Council by resolution from time to time, with
such information being provided as required on a form provided through the
office of the City Clerk-Administrator for such purpose. Haulers shall be
required to demonstrate that they have disposed of MSW at facilities which are
duly licensed for that purpose.
      (2)   Hauler shall also provide to the city, on demand, a master list of
its customers so that the city may verify that every household and/or Business
located within the city has a contract for collection services as required by
M.S. § 115A.941(a), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   The licensee shall notify the City of the discontinuance of service
to any premises with a five day written notice prior to service being
discontinued, if possible, but no later than the date service is actually
discontinued.
   (H)   Opportunity to recycle. Unless the City provides Recycling services,
each licensed MSW Hauler shall provide its customers with the opportunity to
recycle through a weekly curbside collection of Recyclables (as defined in §
50.01 of this chapter). The curbside collection of Recyclables shall be on the
same day as collection of customer's MSW but may occur at a different time
within that day. The Recyclables collection shall be from a location at or near
the MSW collection Site, or at such other location as mutually agreeable to the
Hauler and the customer. The Hauler shall specify how the customers are to
place and prepare their Recyclables for collection. The Hauler shall provide
each new customer with detailed instructions on how to prepare Recyclables for
collection. Haulers must notify customers at least 30 days in advance before
changing their Recycling collection system and provide detailed instructions on
how to prepare Recyclables under the new system. The Hauler is deemed the Owner
of Recyclables, and upon collection, the Hauler may market them. Nothing herein
shall be construed to prevent the Hauler from offering curbside collection for
other recyclable materials in addition to the defined Recyclables.
      (1)   All separated Recyclables must be transported to a licensed
Recycling facility or delivered to an end market for sale or reuse, or brought
to an intermediate collection center for later delivery to a licensed
processing center or end market for Recycling. It is unlawful for any person to
transport for disposal or to dispose of designated Recyclables in an MSW
disposal facility. No separated Recyclables may be mixed with another waste
material or incinerated or landfilled or composted or made into fuel pellets.
      (2)   In each instance where a Hauler does not collect recyclable
materials from a residence or Business, adequate notification as to why the
recyclable material was not picked up, must be left with the recyclable
materials left at the curbside.
   (I)   Billing Practices. As licenser, the city reserves the right to ensure
billing practices and charges for service are fair and conscionable. All
licensed Haulers shall reimburse any unearned fees to any customer who cancels
service for any reason. Additionally, Haulers shall not charge any fees to
remove any bin from a customer's property when they cancel service except, a
Hauler may charge a service fee for bin removal if they have entered into a
written contract that expressly outlines this charge in the event the customer
cancels service before the end of the contract period. In the event the city
receives a complaint on billing practices it deems unfair and/or
unconscionable, it shall send a violation notice to the Hauler outlining the
unacceptable billing practice. The Hauler will be provided an opportunity to
respond to the complaint before any enforcement action is taken.
   (J)   Office location. The Hauler shall establish and maintain an office
with continuous supervision for accepting complaints and customer calls. The
office shall be in service with continuous supervision during the hours of 8:00
a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. A system for recording and responding
to customer calls outside Business hours shall be established and described in
the application for license. The address and telephone number of such office
and any changes therein shall be given to the city in writing.
   (K)   Complaints. The Hauler shall maintain a complaint response and file
system. All complaints shall be answered courteously and promptly. The Hauler
is responsible for resolving all complaints received.
      (1)   Missed collections reported by customers shall be collected within
two business days of the report of the miss.
      (2)   The city will notify the Hauler of any unresolved complaints that
it receives. The Hauler shall provide a semi-annual report in a format
prescribed by the City on the total number and type of complaints received and
the resolution of those complaints.
§ 50.17 REGULATIONS; RATES.
   All collection and removal of Garbage or Recyclables within the city shall
be performed in accordance with the following regulations:
   (A)   Frequency of collections. MSW, Recycling, SSOM if provided, and Yard
Waste during Yard Waste season shall be collected and removed from each
collection point with sufficient frequency to minimize purification,
objectionable odors, infestation by vectors of disease or as determined by the
city.
   (B)   Limits on quantity. There shall be no limits as to quantity but
Haulers need not collect or remove any MSW, Recycling, SSOM, or Yard Waste
unless the same is in appropriate containers.
   (C)   Collection and removal fees/rates. No Hauler shall charge a fee for
the collection and removal of MSW, SSOM, or Yard Waste from any single-family
Residential Dwelling house, as provided by divisions (A) and (B) of this
section, except as provided by the Hauler in its application for license and
established by ordinance by the City Council. A variable rate billing schedule
must be used for all MSW. In the case of multiple-family residential Buildings
the fee for each unit within the Building shall not exceed the amount Permitted
for service to any single-family Residential Dwelling house; however, in the
case of Commercial or other nonresidential Buildings, the Hauler may charge a
fee to be established by agreement between them and the individual customer,
provided the fee is reasonably related to the rate established hereunder for
the collection and removal of MSW and Recyclables from residential Buildings to
the extent the collection and removal service required is comparable. In
accordance with M.S. § 115A.93 Subd.3(c) Haulers shall not impose a greater
charge on residents who recycle than on residents who do not recycle. The
Hauler in March and September shall notify each customer of the Yard Waste
services, costs, and procedures for Yard Waste pickup provided by the Hauler.
   (D)   Effect of failure to pay fees. Notwithstanding any provision of this
chapter to the contrary, no Hauler need collect or remove the Garbage from any
collection point if the customer for whom the Garbage and rubbish is being
collected and removed at that collection point is in default of any payment or
payments required to be paid for the service under the contract or agreement
existing between the Hauler and the customer. All such accounts must be
reported to the city within two business days of non-collection.
   (E)   Separation of Yard Wastes, other waste. Yard waste separated by the
customer shall not be comingled with Garbage, Recycling, Bulky Waste, SSOM, or
construction/demolition waste by the Hauler. The City Council of the city may
also by resolution pass from time to time rules and regulations affecting the
separation of other Solid Waste for collection by licensed Haulers within the
city.
   (F)   Unlawful disposal of Garbage, rubbish, and Recyclables. No MSW,
Recycling, Bulky Waste, SSOM, Yard Waste and construction/demolition waste
shall be collected, conveyed, or disposed of except by Haulers licensed by the
city.
§ 50.18 BOND REQUIRED.
   No license issued hereunder shall be effective until the licensee shall have
deposited with the City Clerk-Administrator a license bond in the penal sum of
$10,000 conditioned on the licensee's compliance with the conditions of the
license granted hereunder.
§ 50.19 ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   Administrative penalties shall be enforced for ordinance or license
violations including but not limited to:
      (1)   Failure to comply with statutory and code requirements, including
liability insurance.
      (2)   Failure to submit required reports by date specified by ordinance.
      (3)   Failure to respond to customer calls or missed collections within
the times specified by ordinance.
      (4)   Failure to provide city with the name of disposal facility used,
upon request.
      (5)   Failure to display license in vehicle(s).
      (6)   Failure to ensure contents do not leak or spill from vehicles or
during collection.
      (7)   Failure to clean up solid or liquid spills or leaks from vehicles
within two hours.
      (8)   Failure to notify the city of rate changes in accordance with
chapter.
      (9)   Failure to notify the city of non-collection of waste.
      (10)   Failure to provide proper disposal of Solid Waste, including MSW,
Recyclables, Bulky Waste, Yard Waste, SSOM and/or construction/demolition
waste.
      (11)   Failure to properly store container.
      (12)   Failure to mitigate overflowing container.
   (B)   All licensed collectors under this article shall promptly remit to the
city any administrative penalties imposed.
      (1)   Administrative penalties not remitted within 45 days of imposition
shall be doubled on the forty-sixth day after the date of the city's
notification to the licensee of the imposition of administrative penalties, and
shall double again after each successive 30 day period in which the penalties
are not fully remitted to the city.
      (2)   No license under this chapter shall be renewed or issued if the
licensee, or individuals having interest in the Business entity for which the
license is sought, have any outstanding administrative penalties due to the
city for that Businesses entity or another Business entity under their
financial control.
      (3)   The amounts of Administrative Penalties shall be determined
annually by City Council Resolution.
§ 50.20 CONTRACT FOR COLLECTION SERVICES.
   Every residential, Business, or Commercial property within the City shall
have a contract for MSW and Recyclables collection services except those which
are exempted pursuant to the provisions of M.S. § 115A.941(b), as it may be
amended from time to time, as long as that residential, retail, or Commercial
Business entity ensures that an environmentally sound alternative for Garbage
and Recyclables disposal has and is being implemented. All persons seeking
exemption from the provisions of this chapter shall submit a written
application with the City Clerk-Administrator specifying and identifying the
environmentally sound alternative that it is seeking to implement in lieu of
entering into a contract for Garbage collection services with a licensed Hauler
pursuant to the provisions of tins chapter. The City Council shall conduct a
hearing upon receipt of all such applications and determine whether or not the
method proposed by the applicant for alternate disposal of their or its MSW,
Recyclables, Bulky Waste, Yard Waste, SSOM or construction/demolition waste is
environmentally sound and reasonably acceptable.
§ 50.21 GENERAL DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall bury any MSW, recyclable materials, or other waste
materials within the city. No person shall allow Solid Waste, Recyclables,
Bulky Waste, SSOM, or Yard Waste to accumulate upon property owned or occupied
by any such person; or fails to dispose thereof in a manner meeting the
provisions of this Chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit MSW,
Recyclables, Bulky Waste, Yard Waste, SSOM, or construction and demolition
waste to be removed from their property by an unlicensed Hauler.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent persons from hauling MSW,
Recyclables, Bulky Waste, Yard Waste, tree waste, SSOM, or construction and
demolition waste or other waste from their own residences or Business
properties, provided the following rules are observed:
      (1)   The disposal method must ensure that all waste will be deposited
into a properly permitted and/or licensed Site in accordance with state and
county rules.
      (2)   That all MSW, Recyclables, or SSOM shall be hauled in containers
that are Watertight on all sides and the bottom, and with tight fitting covers
on top.
      (3)   That all Bulky Waste, Yard Waste, tree waste, or construction and
demolition waste must be hauled in vehicles with leak-proof bodies and be
completely covered or enclosed by canvas or other means of material so as to
completely eliminate the possibility of loss of cargo.
      (4)   That Recyclables shall be disposed of at a Recycling facility, an
organized Recycling drive, or through a licensed Recycling Hauler.
   (C)   The discharging or depositing of MSW, Recyclables, Bulky Waste, Yard
Waste, tree waste, SSOM, or construction and demolition waste on any street,
alley, drive, park, playground, or other public place or any privately-owned
Lot in the city by any person is unlawful. MSW is the responsibility of the
property Owner until such time as it is collected by a licensed Hauler.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to scavenge or otherwise collect MSW, or
other recyclable materials, Bulky Wastes, Yard Wastes, SSOM, or construction
and demolition waste at the curb or from recyclable containers without a
license from the city and an account relationship with the Owner of the
premises.
   (E)   Except as provided in division (B) above, MSW shall be disposed of by
contracting with a licensed Hauler to haul the waste to a properly Permitted
and/or licensed Site in accordance with state and county rules.
   (F)   Residents of Residential Dwelling units are strongly encouraged to
separate Recyclables from the waste stream for Recycling. Owners/occupants of
Commercial Buildings shall comply with Minnesota Statutes and recycle at least
three types of material.
   (G)   Except as provided in division (B) above Bulky Waste must be disposed
of by contracting with a licensed private collector to haul the waste to a
state licensed and/or county-approved processing or disposal Site.
   (H)   Yard waste. All leaves and grass clippings shall be separated by the
customer from all other Solid Waste accumulated on the premises and shall be
placed and maintained in compostable bags, containers, or packages as provided
by the homeowner's Yard Waste collection contractor or otherwise as are
identified as acceptable by resolution of the City Council establishing same
from time to time.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of Yard Waste into
the MSW, Recyclables, or Bulky Waste streams. All Yard Waste to be picked up by
a licensed collector shall be placed in separate compostable bags or containers
in compliance with Minnesota Statutes and shall not contain Garbage,
Recyclables, or construction/demolition waste.
      (2)   Yard waste shall be disposed of by:
         (a)   Contracting with a licensed private collector to haul the Yard
Waste to a county approved properly Permitted and/or licensed compost Site;
         (b)   The resident transporting the Yard Waste to a compost Site; or
         (c)   Composting the Yard Waste on the resident's property
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for a licensed private collector to dispose of
Yard Waste into the Garbage, other refuse, Recyclables, or white goods Bulky
Waste stream.
      (4)   Residential on-Site Composting shall be conducted within an
enclosed container(s). The compost shah be contained, secure against vermin and
excess moisture and remain aerobic to allow for the decomposition of the
material. The compost area shall be screened from view of adjacent property
Owners. Containers shall be of a durable material including, but not limited
to, sturdy woven wire fencing, rot-resistant wood, or a Commercially purchased
Composting unit which will provide for adequate aeration. Containers shall be
constructed and maintained in a structurally sound manner. Wood used in the
construction of a compost container must be sound and free of rot. The compost
container(s) shall be located in the rear yard no closer than one foot to any
rear or side property line and shall not be located closer than one foot from
the rear property line and shall not be located in any required front or side
yard as defined in the zoning code, nor closer than 20 feet to any habitable
Building, other than the resident's own home, off of the subject property.
Composting shall be accomplished in compliance with Minnesota Statutes and the
applicable Administrative Rules of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person to Permit SSOM to be removed from
the property by an unlicensed collector. A collector licensed for SSOM may also
be licensed for Garbage and/or Recyclables.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person to Permit Garbage, other refuse,
Recyclables, and Yard Waste, Solid Waste, and construction, and demolition
waste to be removed from their property by an unlicensed collector.
§ 50.22 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Containers. All residents of Residential Dwellings and Owners or
managers of multiple-Residential Dwellings and Commercial establishments shall
provide one or more containers to receive and collect all MSW, Recyclables, and
other materials required by the city which may accumulate between times of
collection. The container(s) may be provided by the Hauler.
   (B)   Dumpsters.
         (a)   Time Period.
            (a)   When a property has an active Building Permit, a Dumpster,
Flexible Dumpster, or Storage/Shipping Container may be located on private
property for the duration of the Building Permit. A Dumpster, Flexible
Dumpster, or Storage/Shipping Container must be removed within five (5)
calendar days of the expiration of a Building Permit, passage of all final
inspections or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever is later.
            (b)   When a property does not have an active Building Permit, a
Dumpster, Flexible Dumpster, or Storage/Shipping Container may be located on
private property for up to fourteen (14) calendar days. No person shall keep a
Dumpster, Flexible Dumpster, or Storage/Shipping Container on private property
longer than the time-frame prescribed in this section without presenting
mitigating circumstances for an extension, including but not limited to health
conditions and vacating of a home, and receiving approval from the City
Administrator/Clerk or City Council.
      (2)   Regulation.
         (a)   A Dumpster, Flexible Dumpster, or Storage/Shipping Container may
not be placed in the right-of-way, in the line of sight for vehicle traffic at
intersections, or on public property.
         (b)   A property can only have up to either two of the same, or a
combination thereof, of the following, at a time: a Dumpster, Flexible
Dumpster, and/or Storage/Shipping Container. A property cannot have a Dumpster,
a Flexible Dumpster, and a Storage/Shipping Container at one time, two
Dumpsters and a Storage/Shipping Container at one time, two Flexible Dumpsters
and a Storage/Shipping Container at one time, nor two shipping containers and a
Dumpster/Flexible Dumpster at one time. An exemption to this regulation may be
allowed by presenting mitigating circumstances for an exemption, including but
not limited to health conditions and vacating of a home, and receiving approval
from the City Administrator/Clerk or City Council.
         (c)   A Dumpster, Flexible Dumpster, or Storage/Shipping Container
over 40 yards is not Permitted at any time.
      (3)   Penalties.
         (a)   Any Person who violates this ordinance shall by guilty of a
misdemeanor in accordance with Minnesota Statute 609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be
amended from time to time; and the cost of prosecution may be added pursuant to
Minn. Stat. § 631.48. This ordinance may be enforced by civil court process,
criminal court process, or administrative citation process.
      (4)   Exemption.
         (a)   Dumpsters Permitted by a CUP are exempt from this section.
   (C)   Multiple-Residential Dwellings and Commercial Establishments
      (1)   For all multiple-Residential Dwellings and Commercial
establishments where Solid Wastes must be disposed of and the volume exceeds
three 90-gallon containers per week, Dumpster service shall be utilized with
the frequency of pick up being not less than once per week. Actual size of the
Dumpster or the frequency of pick up shall be determined by need as established
by the city.
      (2)   No person shall deposit Garbage, Bulky Waste, SSOM, Yard Waste,
construction/demolition waste or other waste in a Dumpster except the Owner,
occupant or authorized agent of the premises using such container. It shall be
a misdemeanor in accordance with Minnesota Statute 609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be
amended from time to time; and the cost of prosecution may be added pursuant to
Minn. Stat. §631.48, to deposit Garbage, Bulky Waste, SSOM, Yard Waste,
construction/demolition waste, or other waste in a Dumpster in violation of
this section.
      (3)   All Owners and/or managers of multiple-Residential Dwellings and
Commercial Buildings are required to provide containers or Dumpsters for
tenants to deposit Recyclables and have adequate storage between collections by
a licensed Hauler.
   (D)   Construction or Demolition Site. At each construction or demolition
Site, the contractor and/or property Owner shall provide at least one Roll-Off
Container. No Solid Wastes or construction/demolition waste, whether generated
at the Site or elsewhere, shall be stored outside the Roll-Off Container. The
Roll-Off Container shall be emptied within seven days of the container being
filled to capacity. Contractors and/or property Owners shall be responsible for
cleaning up and disposing of construction debris carried by the elements onto
neighboring property.
§ 50.23 STORAGE AND PLACEMENT.
   (A)   Containers shall be placed for collection not earlier than six o'clock
(6:00) p.m. the evening before collection and must be put away no later than
six o'clock (6:00) p.m. on the day of collection.
   (B)   Every Owner, operator or lessee of an industrial and/or Commercial
Business shall keep all containers for Solid Waste, Recyclables, Bulky Waste,
SSOM or Yard Wastes in an enclosure or Building. All new Garbage and Recycling
enclosures or Buildings constructed in compliance with this provision, and all
major alterations to such existing Garbage and Recycling enclosures and
Buildings, shall be constructed in compliance with the provisions relating to
Garbage and Recycling enclosure structures. Containers shall not be filled to
the extent that the Garbage or Recycling placed therein can drop or spill
therefrom, and Bulky Waste shall be contained within the enclosure.
CHAPTER 51: WATER SUPPLY
Section
   
51.01   General purposes
   
51.02   Adoption of state regulations
   
51.03   Application
   
51.04   Implied warranty of contract
   
51.05   Geological log
§ 51.01 GENERAL PURPOSES.
   The general purpose of this chapter is to protect and promote the public
safety, general health, and welfare of the residents of this community, present
and in the future, by the regulation of the location, design, installation,
construction, repair, or extension of any individual water supply system within
the city.
§ 51.02 ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   Provisions of M.S. §§ 103I.001 et seq., as it may be amended from time to
time, and the regulations of the Department of Health adopted pursuant thereto
shall be applicable and in full force and effect in the city and the same are
hereby adopted by reference.
§ 51.03 APPLICATION.
   Before proceeding with the construction of a new well, the property Owner or
their agent shall first obtain a Permit for such purposes from the City Clerk-
Administrator and shall pay a fee to be prescribed by resolution by the city
from time to time. The application for Permit shall include a certification by
the applicant that they have provided a true and correct copy of the
application to the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and the Department of
Health advising them as to the specifications of the well proposed to be
drilled by the applicant, its location, depth, and other pertinent data. The
applicant shall also certify within their application that the well as applied
for meets or exceeds the recommendations of the Minnesota Department of Health
and Minnesota Pollution Control Agency regarding the depth, location, and
drilling criteria of the proposed well. Applications for Permit shall include
such other information as may be reasonably required by the City Council from
time to time by resolution, and the applicant shall also provide such other
information as may be requested by the City Clerk-Administrator or Building
official for the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 IMPLIED WARRANTY OF CONTRACT.
   This chapter and each of the separate provisions thereof have been enacted
for the benefit and protection of property Owners as well as the public in
general. Each and every contract, either written or oral, for the performance
of a type regulated by this chapter, shall by implication include a warranty
and covenant on the part of the one who is to perform the work. The work shall
be performed strictly in accordance with the applicable provisions of this
chapter, unless compliance to the ordinance has been waived by order of the
City Council for good cause shown.
§ 51.05 GEOLOGICAL LOG.
   A geological log, as prescribed by the Minnesota Department of Health, of
the formations encountered in drilling each well shall be kept by the driller,
and a copy thereof should be filed with the city upon completion of the
drilling of any well within the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS
Section
   
52.01   Purpose and intent
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Administration
   
52.04   Compliance criteria
   
52.05   Acceptable and prohibited discharges
   
52.06   Permits
   
52.07   Operating Permits
   
52.08   Inspections
   
52.09   Site evaluation and soil testing
   
52.10   MSTS Site evaluation and soil testing
   
52.11   Groundwater investigation
   
52.12   Sewage flow determination
   
52.13   Sewage tanks
   
52.14   Distribution of effluent
   
52.15   Dosing of effluent
   
52.16   Treatment and dispersal
   
52.17   Type I systems
   52.18   Type II systems
   
52.19   Type III systems
   
52.20   Type IV systems
   
52.21   Type V systems
   52.22   Maintenance
   
52.23   System abandonment
   
52.24   Product registration
   
52.25   Enforcement
   
Appendix A:   Soil Loading Rates for Level C Treatment
   
Appendix B:   Soil Loading Rates for Level A & B Treatment
§ 52.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To protect the public health, safety, and general welfare by the
discharge of adequately treated Sewage to the groundwater via the proper
location, design, installation, use, and maintenance of Individual Subsurface
Sewage Treatment Systems (ISTS) and Midsized Subsurface Sewage Treatment
Systems (MSTS).
   (B)   These environmental protection standards shall be adopted countywide
and administered and enforced by the Department or local units of government as
directed by Minn. Rules Chapter 7082, and M.S. § 115.55.
   (C)   This chapter does not regulate systems that do not receive Sewage as
defined in this chapter. If systems receive both Sewage and nonsewage, the
requirements of this chapter apply, plus any additional requirements governing
the nonsewage portion of the wastewater.
   (D)   To provide prescriptive design, construction, and operational
standards to reasonably protect surface water and groundwater and promote
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (E)   To protect individual water supply wells of the community from
contamination by inadequate, improperly designed, located, installed or
maintained subsurface Sewage treatment systems.
   (F)   To provide for the orderly development of areas of the community which
are not served by central public wastewater treatment systems and to reduce the
need to install central public wastewater treatment systems in areas where they
are not now currently planned.
   (G)   Technology and products employed in system design shall adequately
protect the public health and the environment as determined by Minnesota Rules.
Chapter 7083. And be approved for use by the Department or local unit of
government.
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Certain terms. For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms or
words used are interpreted as follows: the words "shall" and "must" are
mandatory and the words "should" and "may" are permissive. All distances
specified in this chapter are horizontal distances unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the certain words and phrases are
defined as follows:
   ABSORPTION AREA. The parameter that is associated with the hydraulic
acceptance of effluent. It is also commonly known as the infiltrative surface.
The ABSORPTION AREA for a Mound System is the Original Soil below a Mound
System that is designed to absorb Sewage tank effluent. The ABSORPTION AREA for
Trenches, Seepage Beds, and At-Grade Systems is the soil area in contact with
the part of the Distribution Medium that is designed and loaded to allow
absorption of Sewage Tank Effluent. This includes both bottom and sidewall soil
contact areas.
   AGENCY. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA).
   ALARM DEVICE. A device that alerts a system operator or system Owner of a
component's status using a visual or audible device. An ALARM DEVICE can be
either on Site or remotely located.
   APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS.
      (a)   This chapter; Minn. Rules Chapter 7082, and M.S. § 115.55; or
      (b)   In areas of the county without complying ordinances to regulate
SSTS, the requirements in this chapter.
   AS-BUILTS. Drawings and documentation specifying the final in-place
location, size, and type of all system components. These records identify the
results of materials testing and describe the conditions during construction.
An AS-BUILT also contains a Certified statement.
   ASTM. The American Society for Testing and Materials.
   AT-GRADE SYSTEM. A pressurized soil treatment and dispersal system where
Sewage tank effluent is dosed to an absorption bed that is constructed directly
on Original Soil at the ground surface and covered by loamy soil materials.
   BAFFLE. A device installed in a Septic Tank to retain solids and includes,
but is not limited to, vented sanitary tees with submerged pipes and Effluent
Screens.
   BEDROCK. Geologic layers, of which greater than 50% by volume consists of
unweathered in-place consolidated rock or rock fragments. BEDROCK also means
weathered in-place rock which cannot be hand augered or penetrated with a knife
blade in a soil pit.
   BEDROOM. For the sole purpose of estimating design flows from Dwellings, an
area that is:
      (a)   A room designed or used for sleeping; or
      (b)   A room or area of a Dwelling that has a minimum floor area of 70
square feet with access gained from the living area or living area hallway.
Architectural features that affect the use as a Bedroom under this item may be
considered in making the Bedroom determination.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The measure of the amount of oxygen
required by bacteria while stabilizing, digesting, or treating biodegradable
organic matter under aerobic conditions over a five-day incubation period,
commonly expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/L).
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING SEWER. The part of the drainage system which extends from the end
of the Building drain and conveys its discharge to a subsurface Sewage
treatment system.
   CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or CBOD5. The measure of the amount
of oxygen required by bacteria while stabilizing, digesting, or treating
organic matter under aerobic conditions over a five-day incubation period while
in the presence of a chemical inhibitor to block nitrification. CBOD5 is
commonly expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/L).
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A document, written after a Compliance
Inspection, certifying that a system is in compliance with applicable
requirements at the time of the inspection.
   CERTIFIED. An individual is included on the Agency's SSTS certification list
and is qualified to design, install, maintain, repair, pump, operate, or
inspect an SSTS as appropriate with the individual's qualifications. A
CERTIFIED individual who is working under a license is subject to the
obligations of the license. CERTIFIED individuals were previously known as
registered professionals.
   CERTIFIED STATEMENT. A statement signed by a Certified individual,
apprentice, or qualified employee under Minn. Rules Chapter 7083 certifying
that the licensed business or qualified employee completed the work in
accordance with applicable requirements.
   CESSPOOL. An underground pit, receptacle, or seepage tank that receives
Sewage and leaches Sewage into the surrounding soil, Bedrock, or other soil
materials. CESSPOOLS include Sewage tanks that were designed to be Watertight,
but subsequently leak below the designed operating depth.
   CLEAN SAND. A soil fill material required to be used in mounds. The
standards for CLEAN SAND are outlined in § 52.17(C)(10).
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   COMPLIANCE INSPECTION. An evaluation, investigation, inspection, or other
such process for the purpose of issuing a Certificate of Compliance or Notice
of Noncompliance.
   CONTOUR LOADING RATE. The amount of effluent loaded to the soil per length
of the dispersal unit or units along the single hillslope along the contour.
The Contour Loading Rate is determined on the relationship between the vertical
and horizontal water movement in soil and is based on the permeability
difference between the Absorption Area and any deeper horizons, the depth
between the Absorption Area and the change in permeability; and the land Slope.
   DEPARTMENT. The Washington County Department of Public Health and
Environment.
   DISINFECTION. The process of destroying or inactivating pathogenic
microorganisms in Sewage to render them noninfectious.
   DISTINCT. A soil color that is not faint as described in this section.
   DISTRIBUTION BOX. A device intended to distribute Sewage tank effluent
concurrently and equally by gravity to multiple segments of a Soil Dispersal
System.
   DISTRIBUTION DEVICE. A device used to receive and transfer effluent from
Supply Pipes to Distribution Pipes or downslope Supply Pipes, or both. These
devices include, but are not limited to, Drop Boxes, Valve Boxes, Distribution
Boxes, or manifolds.
   DISTRIBUTION MEDIUM. The material used to provide void space in a dispersal
component, through which effluent flows and is stored prior to infiltration.
DISTRIBUTION MEDIA includes, but is not limited to, drainfield rock,
polystyrene beads, chambers, and gravelless pipe.
   DISTRIBUTION PIPES. Perforated pipes that distribute effluent within a
Distribution Medium.
   DNR. The Minnesota Department of Natural Resources.
   DOMESTIC WASTE. Liquid waste produced by toilets, bathing, laundry, culinary
operations, and the floor drains associated with these sources, and includes
household cleaners, medications, and other constituents in Sewage restricted to
amounts normally used for domestic purposes. DOMESTIC WASTE has a Biochemical
Oxygen Demand of 175 mg/L or less, a total suspended solids level of 65 mg/L or
less, an oil and grease concentration of 25 mg/L or less and no Hazardous
Wastes. Animal waste and commercial or industrial waste are not considered
Domestic Waste.
   DRIP DISPERSAL SYSTEM. A small diameter pressurized wastewater distribution
system in which the treated effluent is distributed under pressure to the
infiltrative surface via drip tubing and enters the receiving environment.
   DROP BOX. A Distribution Device used for the serial gravity application of
Sewage tank effluent to a Soil Dispersal System.
   DWELLING. Any Building with provision for living, sanitary, and sleeping
facilities.
   EFFLUENT SCREEN. A device installed on the outlet piping of a Septic Tank
for the purpose of retaining solids of a specific size.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   EVEN DISTRIBUTION. A method that, upon activation of the SSTS, reliably
distributes effluent over the entire required Absorption Area.
   EXISTING SYSTEM. A system that has been previously inspected and approved by
the Department or local unit of government during installation. In addition,
all operating systems installed before the adoption of this chapter are
considered Existing Systems.
   FAINT. A soil color:
      (a)   With the same hue as another soil color but that varies from the
other color by two or less units of value and not more than one unit of chroma;
      (b)   That differs from another soil color by one hue and by one or less
units of value and not more than one unit of chroma; or
      (c)   That differs from another soil color by two units of hue with the
same value or chroma.
   FECAL COLIFORM or FC. For the purposes of this chapter, means bacteria
common to the digestive systems of humans that are cultured in standard tests.
Counts of these organisms are typically used to indicate potential
contamination from Sewage or to describe a level of Disinfection, generally
expressed in colonies per 100 mL.
   FINE SAND. A Soil Texture, as described in the Field Book for Describing and
Sampling Soils, which is incorporated by reference in this section where more
than 50% of the Sand has a particle size range of 0.05 millimeters, sieve size
of 270, to 0.25 millimeters, sieve size 60.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the Floodplain outside of the Floodway. Flood
fringe is in the Flood Insurance Study for Washington County and identified on
the Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps as Floodway fringe.
   FLOODPLAIN. The area covered by a 100-year flood event along lakes, rivers,
and streams as published in technical studies by local, state, and federal
agencies, or in the absent of these studies, estimates of the 100-year flood
boundaries and elevations as developed according to Washington County.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake, the channel of a watercourse, and
those portions of the adjoining Floodplain that are reasonably required to
carry the regional flood discharge.
   FLOW MEASUREMENT. Any method to accurately measure water or Sewage flow,
including, but not limited to, water meters, event counters, running time
clocks, or electronically controlled dosing.
   GEOMORPHIC DESCRIPTION. The identification of the landscape, landform, and
surface morphometry of the proposed area of the soil treatment and dispersal
system as described in the Field Book for Describing and Sampling Soils:
Version 2.0 (2002). developed by the National Soil Survey Center and Natural
Resources Conservation Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.
The field book is incorporated by reference, is not subject to frequent change,
and is available through the Minitex interlibrary loan system.
   GRAYWATER. Sewage that does not contain Toilet Wastes. Liquid wastes from a
Dwelling or Other Establishment produced by bathing, laundry, culinary
operation, and from floor drains associated with these sources are considered
GRAYWATER.
   GRAYWATER SYSTEM. A system that receives, treats, and disperses only
Graywater or other similar system as designated by the commissioner.
   GROUNDWATER MOUND. The rise in height of the Periodically Saturated Soil or
regional water table caused by the addition of Sewage effluent from a
subsurface Sewage treatment system into the soil.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any substance that, when discarded, meets the definition of
Hazardous Waste in M.S. § 116.06, subd. 31, Minn. Rules Chapter 7045, or
Washington County Ordinance No. 166.
   HOLDING TANK. A tank for storage of Sewage until it can be transported to a
point of treatment and dispersal. Holding tanks are considered a septic system
tank under M.S. § 115.55.
   INDIVIDUAL SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM or ISTS. An individual Sewage
treatment system or part thereof, as set forth in M.S. §§ 115.03 and 115.55,
that employs Sewage tanks or other treatment devices with final discharge into
the soil below the natural soil elevation or elevated final grade that are
designed to receive a Sewage design flow of 5,000 gallons per day or less. ISTS
includes the Holding Tanks and privies, but does not include any Pump Tanks
used in a Sewage collection system. ISTS does not include Building sewers or
other components regulated under Minn. Rules Chapter 4715, or Sewage collection
systems.
   INNER WELLHEAD MANAGEMENT ZONE. The drinking water supply management area
for a public water supply well that does not have a delineated Wellhead
Protection Area approved by the Department of Health under Minn. Rules Chapter
4720, § 4720.5330.
   INVERT. The lowest point of a channel inside a pipe.
   IMMINENT THREAT TO PUBLIC HEALTH OR SAFETY. An ISTS which discharges Sewage
or Sewage effluent to the ground surface, drainage system, ditches, or storm
water drains or directly to surface water; or causes a reoccurring Sewage
backup into a Dwelling or Other Establishment; or has an electrical hazard; or
includes a Sewage tank with an unsecured, damaged, or weak maintenance hole
cover; or an ISTS that has received Hazardous Waste, or other safety or health
hazard as determined by those authorized in Minn. Rules Chapter 7083.
   ISTS FAILING TO PROTECT GROUNDWATER. A Seepage Pit, Cesspool, drywell,
leaching pit or Other Pit; or an ISTS that has less than the required Vertical
Separation distance as described in §
52.04(C)(4) and (5); or an ISTS not abandoned in accordance with §
52.23; or any other threat to groundwater quality as determined by those
authorized in Minn. Rules Chapter 7083.
   LIQUID CAPACITY. The liquid volume of a Sewage tank below the Invert of the
outlet pipe or, for Holding Tanks and Pump Tanks, the liquid volume below the
Invert of the inlet.
   LONG-TERM SEWAGE TREATMENT. Enough space on a Lot for two Type I or Type II
soil treatment and dispersal areas.
   LOT. A parcel of land designated by metes and bounds, registered land
survey, plat or other means, and which description is either recorded in the
Office of the Washington County Recorder or Registrar of Titles or used by the
County Treasurer or County Assessor to separate such parcel from other lands
for tax purposes.
   MANAGEMENT PLAN. A plan that requires the periodic examination, adjustment,
testing, and other operational requirements to meet system performance
expectations, including a planned course of action in the event a system does
not meet performance expectations.
   MATRIX. The majority of the color in a soil horizon, as described in the
Field Book for Describing and Sampling Soils, which is incorporated by
reference in this section.
   MIDSIZED SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM or MSTS. An individual Sewage
treatment system, or part thereof, as set forth in M.S. §§ 115.03 and 115.55.
that employs Sewage tanks or other treatment devices with final discharge into
the soil below the natural soil elevation or elevated final grade and that is
designed to receive Sewage from Dwellings or Other Establishments with a design
flow of greater than 5,000 gallons per day to 10,000 gallons per day. Design
flows must be determined by §
52.12(G). MSTS also includes on-Lot Septic Tanks, Holding Tanks, and privies,
but does not include any Pump Tanks used in a Sewage collection system. MSTS
does not include those components defined as plumbing under Minn. Rules Chapter
4715 or Sewage collection systems.
   MOTTLES. The minority of the variegated colors in a soil horizon, as
described in the Field Book for Describing and Sampling Soils, which is
incorporated by reference in this section.
   MOUND SYSTEM. A soil treatment and dispersal system designed and installed
such that all of the infiltrative surface is installed above grade, using Clean
Sand between the bottom of the infiltrative surface and the original ground
elevation, utilizing Pressure Distribution, and capped with suitable soil
material to stabilize the surface and encourage vegetative growth.
   MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Installing or constructing a new ISTS or altering,
extending, or adding capacity to an Existing System.
   NOTICE OF NONCOMPLIANCE. A document written and signed by a Certified
inspector after a Compliance Inspection that gives notice that an ISTS is not
in compliance with this chapter.
   NPDES PERMIT. A National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit
issued by the MPCA.
   O&G. Oil and grease, a component of Sewage typically originating from
foodstuff such as animal fats or vegetable oils or consisting of compounds of
alcohol or glycerol with fatty acids such as soaps and lotions, typically
expressed in mg/L (also known as FOG, or fats, oil, and grease).
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL. The boundary of water basins, watercourses,
Public Waters, and Public Waters wetlands, and:
      (a)   The ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is an elevation delineating the
highest water level that has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to
leave evidence upon the landscape, commonly the point where the natural
vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial;
      (b)   For watercourses, the ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the elevation of
the top of the bank of the channel; and
      (c)   For reservoirs and flowages, the ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the
operating elevation of the normal summer pool.
   ORIGINAL SOIL. Naturally occurring soil that has not been cut, filled,
moved, smeared, compacted, altered, or manipulated to the degree that the
loading rate must be reduced from that associated with natural soil conditions.
   OTHER ESTABLISHMENT. Any public or private structure other than a Dwelling
that generates Sewage that discharges into an ISTS or MSTS.
   OTHER PIT. Any pit or other device designed to leach Sewage effluent that is
greater than 30 inches in height or has a bottom area loading rate of Sewage
greater than two gallons per square foot per day.
   OWNER. Any person having possession of, control over, or title to property
with an ISTS.
   PARENT MATERIAL. The unconsolidated and chemically weathered geologic
mineral or organic matter from which soils are developed by soil forming
processes.
   PERCOLATION RATE. The rate of a drop of water infiltrating into a test hole
as specified in §
52.09(G)(2).
   PERIODICALLY SATURATED SOIL. The highest elevation in the soil that is in a
reduced chemical state due to soil pores filled or nearly filled with water
causing anaerobic conditions. PERIODICALLY SATURATED SOIL is determined by the
presence of Redoximorphic Features in conjunction with other established
indicators as specified in §
52.09.(F)(5) or (6), or determined by other scientifically established
technical methods or empirical field measurements acceptable to the local unit
of government in consultation with the Department or the commissioner.
   PERMIT. A Building, construction, sanitary, planning, zoning or other such
Permit issued for New Construction, Replacement, repair, alteration, or
extension of a subsurface Sewage treatment system. PERMIT also means a Permit
issued for the addition of a Bedroom or bathroom on property served by a
subsurface Sewage treatment system.
   PERMITTEE. A person who is named on a Permit issued pursuant to these
regulations.
   PLASTIC LIMIT. A soil moisture content above which manipulation will cause
compaction or smearing. The PLASTIC LIMIT can be measured by American Society
for Testing and Materials, Standard Test Methods for Liquid Limit, Plastic
Limit, and Plasticity Index of Soils, ASTM D4318 (2005). The standard is
incorporated by reference, is available through the Minitex interlibrary loan
system, and is not subject to frequent change.
   PRESSURE DISTRIBUTION. A network of Distribution Pipes in which effluent is
forced through orifices under pressure.
   PRIVY. An aboveground structure with an underground cavity meeting the
requirements of § 52.18(D) that is used for the storage or treatment and
dispersal of Toilet Wastes, excluding water for flushing and Graywater. A PRIVY
also means a nondwelling structure containing a Toilet Waste treatment device.
   PROPRIETARY PRODUCT. A Sewage treatment or distribution technology method,
or material subject to a patent or trademark.
   PUBLIC DOMAIN TECHNOLOGY. A Sewage treatment or distribution technology,
method, or material not subject to a patent or trademark.
   PUBLIC WATERS. Any Public Waters or wetlands defined in M.S. § 103G.005.
subd. 15, or identified as Public Waters or wetlands by the inventory prepared
according to M.S. § 103G.201.
   PUMP TANK. A tank or separate compartment following the Sewage tank that
serves as a reservoir for a pump. A separate tank used as a Pump Tank is
considered a septic system tank under M.S. § 115.55, subd. 1, paragraph (o).
   REDOXIMORPHIC FEATURES.
      (a)   A color pattern in soil, formed by oxidation and reduction of iron
and manganese in saturated soil coupled with their removal, translocation, or
accrual, which results in the loss (depletion) or gain (concentration) of
mineral compounds compared to the Matrix color; or
      (b)   A soil Matrix color controlled by the presence of ferrous iron.
REDOXIMORPHIC FEATURES are described in §
52.09(F)(5).
   REPLACEMENT. The removal or discontinued use of any major portion of an ISTS
and reinstallation of that portion of the system, such as reinstallation of a
new Sewage tank, Holding Tank, Pump Tank, Privy, or Soil Dispersal System.
   SDS PERMIT. A State Disposal System Permit issued by the MPCA.
   SAND. A Sand Soil Texture, as described in the Field Book for Describing and
Sampling Soils, which is incorporated by reference in this section.
   SEEPAGE BED. A soil treatment and dispersal system, the absorption width o
which is greater than three feet but no greater than 25 feet.
   SEEPAGE PIT. An underground pit that receives Sewage tank effluent and from
which the liquid seeps into the surrounding soil.
   SEPTAGE. Solids and liquids removed from an SSTS and includes solids and
liquids from Cesspools, Seepage Pits, Other Pits, or similar systems or devices
that receive Sewage. SEPTAGE also includes solids and liquids that are removed
from portable, incinerating, Composting, holding, or other toilets. Waste from
Type III marine sanitation devices, as defined in 33 C.F.R. § 159.3, and
material that has come into contact with untreated Sewage within the past 12
months is also considered SEPTAGE.
   SEPTIC TANK. Any Watertight, covered receptacle that is designed and
constructed to receive the discharge of Sewage from a Building sewer or
preceding tank, stores liquids for a detention period that provides separation
of solids from liquid and digestion of organic matter, and allows the effluent
to discharge to a succeeding tank, treatment device, or Soil Dispersal Area.
   SERIAL DISTRIBUTION. Distribution of Sewage tank effluent by gravity flow
that progressively loads one section of a soil treatment and dispersal system
to a predetermined level before overflowing to the succeeding section and does
not place a dynamic head on the lower section of the soil treatment and
dispersal system. The Distribution Medium is allowed to serve as a conveyance
medium to the next section.
   SETBACK. A separation distance measured horizontally.
   SEWAGE. Waste produced by toilets, bathing, laundry, culinary operations,
and the floor drains associated with these sources, and includes household
cleaners, medications, and other constituents in Sewage restricted to amounts
normally used for domestic purposes.
   SEWAGE FLOW. Flow as determined by measurement of actual water measurement;
or, if actual measurements are not available, by the best available data
provided.
   SEWAGE TANK. A receptacle used in the containment or treatment of Sewage and
includes, but is not limited to, Septic Tanks, aerobic tanks, Pump Tanks, and
Holding Tanks. Requirements for Sewage tanks are described in § 52.13. SEWAGE
TANKS are considered a septic system in M.S.§ 115.55, subd. 1, paragraph (o).
   SEWAGE TANK EFFLUENT. The liquid that flows from a Septic Tank or other
treatment device.
   SITE. The area required for the proper location of the soil treatment
system.
   SLOPE. The vertical rise or fall divided by the horizontal distance,
expressed as a percentage.
   SOIL DISPERSAL AREA. The area required for the Soil Dispersal System,
including space between individual units or zones.
   SOIL DISPERSAL SYSTEM. A system where Sewage effluent is dispersed into the
soil for treatment by absorption and filtration and includes, but is not
limited to, Trenches, Seepage Beds, At-Grade Systems, Mound Systems and Drip
Dispersal Systems.
   SOIL TEXTURE. The soil particle size classification and particle size
distribution as specified in the Field Book for Describing and Sampling Soils,
incorporated by reference in this section.
   SUBSOIL. A soil layer that has a moist color value of 3.5 or greater and has
undergone weathering and soil formation processes.
   SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM or SSTS. Either an Individual Subsurface
Sewage Treatment System as defined in this section or a Midsized Subsurface
Sewage Treatment System as defined in this section, as applicable.
   SUPPLY PIPE. A nonperforated pipe, the purpose of which is to transport
Sewage tank effluent.
   SYSTEMS IN SHORELAND AREAS OR WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREAS OR SYSTEMS SERVING
FOOD, BEVERAGE, OR LODGING ESTABLISHMENTS, or SWF. The following three
categories:
      (a)   SSTS constructed in shoreland areas where land adjacent to Public
Waters has been designated and delineated as shoreland in Chapter Six of the
Washington County Development Code:
      (b)   SSTS constructed in Wellhead Protection Areas regulated under M.S.
Chapter 103I; and
      (c)   SSTS serving food, beverage, and lodging establishments that are
required to obtain a licenses under M.S. § 157.16,subd. 1, and Washington
County Ordinance No. 145 or 146, and includes manufactured home parks and
recreational camping areas licensed according to M.S. Chapter 327 and
Washington County Ordinance No. 147.
   TEN-YEAR FLOOD. The flood which can be expected to occur, on an average of
once in ten years, or the elevation to which flood waters have a ten percent
chance of rising in any given year.
   TN. Total nitrogen, which is the measure of the complete nitrogen content in
wastewater, including nitrate (N03), nitrite (NO2), ammonia (NH3), and organic
nitrogen, expressed as mg/L.
   TOILET WASTE. Waste commonly disposed of in toilets, including fecal matter:
urine, toilet paper, and water used for flushing.
   TOILET WASTE TREATMENT DEVICES. Other Toilet Waste apparatuses including
incinerating, Composting, biological, chemical, recirculating, or holding
toilets or portable restrooms.
   TOPSOIL. The natural, in-place organically enriched soil layer with a color
value one less than 3.5.
   TOPSOIL BORROW. A loamy soil material having:
      (a)   Less than 5% material larger than two millimeters, No. 10 sieve;
      (b)   No material larger than 2.5 centimeters;
      (c)   A moist color value of less than 3.5; and
      (d)   Adequate nutrients and pH to sustain healthy plant growth.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS or TSS. Solids that are in suspension in water and
that are removable by laboratory filtering, expressed as mg/L.
   TP. Total phosphorus, which is the sum of all forms of phosphorus in
effluent, expressed in mg/L.
   TRENCH. A soil treatment and dispersal system, the absorption width of which
is 36 inches or less.
   VALVE BOX. A Watertight structure designed for alternate distribution of
Sewage tank effluent to segments of a soil treatment system.
   VERTICAL SEPARATION. The vertical measurement of unsaturated soil or Sand
between the bottom of the Distribution Medium and the Periodically Saturated
Soil level or Bedrock.
   WATERTIGHT. Constructed so that no liquid can get into or out of a device
except through designed inlets and outlets.
   WELL CAPTURE ZONE. The surface and subsurface area that supplies water to a
water supply well.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA. The surface and subsurface area surrounding a well
or well field that supplies a public water system, through which contaminants
are likely to move toward and reach the well field as regulated under Minn.
Rules Chapter 4720. For the purposes of this chapter, WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA
is that area bounded by the drinking water supply management area as regulated
under Minn. Rules Chapter 4720.
§ 52.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply and be in effect in all areas in Washington
County other than cities and towns that have adopted ordinances that comply
with M.S. § 115.55, Minn. Rules Chapter 7082, and are as strict as this
Chapter. Pursuant to Chapter One, the Washington County Department of Public
Health and Environment shall be the Administrator of these regulations.
   (B)   SSTS must be designed, constructed, and operated according to this
chapter, except as modified through a local ordinance in compliance with Minn.
Rules Chapter 7082, M.S. § 115.55. and this chapter.
   (C)   SSTS, including both ISTS and MSTS, must be designed, installed,
inspected, pumped, serviced, and operated by licensed businesses and Certified
individuals meeting the qualifications in Minn. Rules 7083.0700 to 7083.2040
and any other applicable state or local requirements.
   (D)   SSTS that are designed to receive Sewage or nonsewage from a two
family Dwelling or greater or receive Sewage or nonsewage from another
Establishment that serves more than 20 persons per day, are regulated by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency as Class V injection wells under
Code of Federal Regulations, title 40. parts 144 and 146. Code of Federal
Regulations, title 40, parts 144 and 146, present additional design regulations
applicable to certain systems designed under this chapter. In addition, single
family Dwellings that receive nonsewage wastewater are regulated by these
federal regulations. All systems that receive Hazardous Wastes are regulated by
the Unites States Environmental Protection Agency as Class IV injection wells.
Disposal of Hazardous Waste must be according to state and federal regulations.
The Owner or Owner's agent of a new or Replacement system classified as a Class
V injection wells shall submit to the commissioner of the MPCA and the United
States Environmental Protection Agency the inventory information specified in
Code of Federal Regulations, title 40, § 144.26. All Class V injection wells
must be identified as such in property transfer disclosures.
   (E)   If the Department finds that by reason of exceptional circumstances,
the strict enforcement of any provisions of this chapter would cause undue
hardship or that strict conformity with the standards would unreasonable,
impractical, or not feasible under the circumstances, the Department may Permit
modifications in individual cases based on conditions it may prescribe for
prevention, control, or abatement of pollution. The Department or local unit of
government cannot issue variances for § 52.04(A), (G), (I), (J), and § 52.16
(a) through (D). The Department or local unit of government can grant a
variance for § 52.04(I)(4)(a) for Replacement MSTS serving existing Dwellings
or Other Establishments.
   (F)   Consistent with the procedures in Chapter One, Section 6,1(1), the
Washington County Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall hear and decide appeals
of any order, decision or determination made by the Department regarding the
enforcement of this chapter. Appeals of any administrative decision or
determination may be filed by any person, county Department, or township.
   (G)   Consistent with the procedures in Chapter One, Section 6.1 (2), the
Washington County Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall hear and decide all
requests for variance to the requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   All subsurface Sewage treatment systems installed subsequent to the
adoption of this chapter and all alterations, extensions, modifications, or
repairs to Existing Systems irrespective of the date of original installation
shall be regulated in accordance with all requirements of this chapter.
   (I)   All MSTS must be designed and operated according to this chapter. All
MSTS must be designed, install' inspected, pumped, and operated by licensed
businesses meeting the qualifications of Minn. Rules Chapter 7083. All MSTS
must conform to applicable state statutes and rules. All Septage generated from
MSTS must be treated and dispersed to applicable standards for Septage in Code
of Federal Regulations, title 40, part 503, and any local requirements.
   (J)   Any new or Existing System which discharges to surface waters or the
ground surface must obtain either an NPDES or an SDS Permit from the MPCA and
shall comply with all NPDES or SDS requirements.
   (K)   MSTS must conform to all applicable state statutes and rules. MSTS
serving establishments licensed or regulated by the State of Minnesota, or MSTS
owned by the State of Minnesota, must conform to this chapter.
   (L)   Any SSTS requiring approval from the State of Minnesota shall also
comply with all requirements of this chapter, and all local codes and
ordinances.
   (M)   Where work requiring a Permit under this chapter has commenced without
first having obtained such Permit, work shall be ordered to stop by the
Department until all required Permits have been approved and issued.
   (N)   To enforce this chapter, the Department or its authorized agent may
enter a Building, property, or a place where there is reason to suspect that a
system is failing to protect groundwater or an imminent threat to public health
and safety.
   (O)   Fees for Permits, operating Permits, inspections, or other services
rendered under this chapter shall be established by the Washington County Board
of Commissioners.
§ 52.04 COMPLIANCE CRITERIA.
   (A)   Treatment required. Sewage discharged from a Dwelling or Other
Establishment that is not served by a system issued a Permit containing
effluent and discharge limits or specific monitoring requirements by the
Department or Agency must be treated according to applicable requirements.
   (B)   Compliance criteria for New Construction. An SSTS regulated under a
current Permit is considered compliant if it meets the applicable requirements
of §
52.16(U).
   (C)   Compliance criteria for Existing Systems. To be in compliance, an
existing SSTS must meet the provisions of this subpart.
      (1)   The SSTS must be protective of public health and safety. A system
that is not protective is considered an Imminent Threat to Public Health or
Safety. At a minimum, a system that is an Imminent Threat to Public Health or
Safety is a Cesspool, Seepage Pit, drywell or leaching pit, a system with
discharge of Sewage or Sewage effluent to the ground surface, drainage systems,
ditches, or storm water drains or directly to surface water; systems that cause
a reoccurring Sewage backup into a Dwelling or Other Establishment; systems
with electrical hazards; or Sewage tanks with unsecured, damaged, or weak
maintenance hole covers. A determination of protectiveness ft other conditions
must be made by a qualified employee of the Department or licensed inspection
business.
      (2)   The SSTS must be protective of groundwater. A system that is not
protective is considered a system failing to protect groundwater. At a minimum,
a system that is failing to protect groundwater is a system that is a Seepage
Pit, Cesspool, drywell, leaching pit, or Other Pit; a system with less than the
required Vertical Separation distance described in divisions (C)(4) and (5) of
this section; and a system not abandoned in accordance with §
52.23. A determination of the threat to groundwater quality for other
conditions must be made by a qualified employee of the Department or local unit
of government or licensed inspection business.
      (3)   The SSTS must be operated, meet performance standards, and be
managed according to its operating Permit.
      (4)   SSTS built after March 31,1996, or in an SWF area as defined in §
52.02, shall have a three foot Vertical Separation. No more than a 15%
reduction in the Vertical Separation distance is allowed to account for
settling of Sand or soil, normal variation of measurements, and interpretations
of the limiting layer conditions.
      (5)   SSTS built before April 1, 1996, in areas that are not SWF areas as
defined in §
52.02, must have at least two feet of Vertical Separation.
      (6)   The Vertical Separation measurement for divisions (C)(4) and (5) of
this section shall be measured outside of the area of system influence in an
area of similar soil and on the same contour elevation.
      (7)   An Existing System which is found to be an imminent threat to
public health and safety by either a qualified employees of the Department,
local unit of government, or a licensed inspection business is hereby declared
to be a public health nuisance and shall be repaired, upgraded, replaced or its
use discontinued within 30 days of notice and order to comply by the
Department. Any further discharge of effluent must be stopped immediately (by
such methods as reducing or stopping all water use or pumping the tank as
necessary) until such time as the system is corrected.
      (8)   Any Existing System which is found to be failing to protect
groundwater shall be replaced or otherwise brought into compliance within 90
days of notice and order to comply by the Department.
      (9)   An Existing System that is not otherwise considered an imminent
threat to public health and safety and which was constructed under a Permit
issued by the Department, or other local unit of government that verified that
the required Vertical Separation existed at the time of installation, need not
be upgraded, repaired, replaced, or its use discontinued notwithstanding the
fact that at the time of a Compliance Inspection, there appears to be less than
the required Vertical Separation between the system bottom and any limiting
layer.
   (D)   Compliance criteria for systems with a flow of greater than 2,500
gallons per day. In addition to the requirements under division (C) of this
section, systems designed under §
52.16(D) must demonstrate that the additional nutrient reduction component
required under those items is in place and functioning.
   (E)   Compliance criteria for systems receiving Replacement components.
Components of an Existing System that result in the system being in
noncompliance must be repaired or replaced according to this chapter. The
repaired or Replacement components must meet technical standards and criteria
of this chapter. The remaining components of the Existing System must result in
the system being in compliance with division (C) of this section. If a
compliant existing Sewage tank is to be used with the design of the new Soil
Dispersal System, the tank must also be Baffled and be Watertight.
   (F)   New construction, Replacement, or existing MSTS designed under this
chapter are considered conforming if they meet the requirements of this
chapter. Existing MSTS constructed before the effective date of this chapter
are considered conforming if they meet the requirements of this section, except
for divisions(I)(4) and (5) of this section.
   (G)   To be in compliance, all MSTS must:
      (1)   Have treatment processes and devices that do not allow Sewage or
Sewage effluent contact with humans, insects, or vermin;
      (2)   Disperse Sewage effluent into our soil or Sand below final grade,
with the effluent remaining below final grade;
      (3)   Not discharge to drainage tile, the ground surface, or surface
water or back up Sewage into Dwellings or Other Establishments;
      (4)   Treat and disperse Sewage effluent in a safe manner, including
protection from physical injury and harm; and
      (5)   Not have received hazardous material.
   (H)   MSTS must be considered an imminent threat to public health and safety
for noncompliance with division (G) of this section and any other condition
that poses an imminent threat as determined by a qualified employee of the
Department or licensed MSTS inspection business.
   (I)   To be in compliance, all MSTS must:
      (1)   Maintain a zone of unsaturated soil between the bottom of the soil
treatment and dispersal system and the Periodically Saturated Soil or Bedrock
during loading of effluent, as described in Section §
52.16(E)(9).
      (2)   Not be Seepage Pits, Cesspools, drywells, leaching pits, Sewage
tanks, and treatment vessels that observably leak below the designated
operating depth;
      (3)   Not allow viable fecal organisms to contaminate underground waters
or zones of seasonal saturation;
      (4)   Employ nitrogen reduction processes that reduce nitrogen
contribution to groundwater as determined:
         (a)   If the discharge from an MSTS will impact water quality of an
aquifer, as defined Minn. Rules Chapter 4725.0100, subpart 21, the effluent
from an MSTS, combination with the effective recharge to the groundwater, must
not exceed concentration of total nitrogen of 10 mg/L or greater at the
property boundary or nearest receptor, which is closest; or
         (b)   If the discharge from an MSTS will not impact water quality of
an aquifer, as defined Minn. Rules Chapter 4725.0100, subpart 21, best
management practices developed by the Commissioner to mitigate water quality
impacts to groundwater must be employed; and
      (5)   Not exceed a groundwater discharge of phosphorus to a surface water
that exceeds the phosphorus standard to the receiving water.
   (J)   To be in compliance, all MSTS must meet the following requirements:
      (1)   All methods and devices used to treat and disperse Sewage must be
designed to conform to all applicable federal, state, and local regulations.
      (2)   Systems no longer in use must be abandoned according to § 52.23.
   (K)   To be in compliance, MSTS must meet performance standards and be
operated and managed according to its operating Permit and Management Plan, as
described in § 52.22(A). To be in compliance, an MSTS designed before the
effective date of this chapter must be operated according to applicable
requirements in § 52.22.
   (L)   Components of existing MSTS that cause non-compliance must be repaired
or replaced. The repaired or replaced components must meet technical standards
and criteria of this chapter. The remaining components must comply with
divisions (A) to (J) of this section, including division (I)(4) of this
section, if constructed after the effective date of this chapter.
   (M)   MSTS in compliance with this chapter shall be issued a Certificate of
Compliance. MSTS found not in compliance with this chapter shall be issued a
Notice of Noncompliance.
   (N)   MSTS issued a Notice of Noncompliance based on the criteria in
divisions (G) and (H) of this section shall be repaired or replaced within 30
days or as directed by M.S. Chapter 145A. whichever is more restrictive.
   (O)   MSTS issued a Notice of Noncompliance based on criteria in divisions
(I) and (J) of this section shall be repaired replaced according to this
chapter.
   (P)   Systems issued a notice of non-compliance based on criteria in
division (K) of this section must immediately be maintained, monitored, or
managed according to the operating Permit.
§ 52.05 ACCEPTABLE AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   This chapter provides design standards for SSTS that receive Sewage.
If an SSTS receives both Sewage and nonsewage, the requirements of this chapter
and requirements governing the nonsewage portion of the water apply.
   (B)   Footing or roof drainage and chemically treated hot tub and pool water
must not be discharged into any part of the system.
   (C)   Products containing Hazardous Waste must not be discharged to a
system, other than in normal amounts of household products and cleaners
designed for household use. Substances not intended for use in household
cleaning, including but not limited to, solvents, pesticides, flammables, photo
finishing chemicals, paint, and dry-cleaning chemicals must not be discharged
to the system. Other unused products or substances, or unused medicines, must
not be discharged to the system solely as a disposal method.
   (D)   Floor drains from garages serving Dwellings, vehicle maintenance
businesses, or any other floor drain that has the potential to introduce
Hazardous Waste into the system, must not be connected to the system.
   (E)   Only Domestic Waste shall be discharged to a soil dispersal and
treatment area. Sewage tank effluent with a waste strength higher than Domestic
Waste shall be pre-treated to a level equal to or less than Domestic Waste
prior to final treatment and disposal in a soil treatment and dispersal area.
§ 52.06 PERMITS.
   (A)   No construction shall be allowed by any local unit of government until
the Permit required for the subsurface Sewage treatment system has been issued.
   (B)   No additions, enlargements, improvements, or remodeling involving 50%
or more of the structure, or alterations that would affect the water use, such
as Bedrooms, bathrooms, or additions to living space (excluding such areas as
screen porches, entry ways, decks, attics, patios, nonhabitable storage spaces)
shall be allowed until the subsurface Sewage treatment system has been
determined to be both adequate and conforming or a Permit for a new treatment
system has first been issued.
   (C)   Permits shall be required for subsurface Sewage treatment systems as
follows:
      (1)   All new installations of Sewage tanks, soil dispersal and treatment
areas, and components thereof;
      (2)   All repair, extension, Replacement or modification of Existing
Systems and components; or
      (3)   Any change in use of a facility served by a subsurface Sewage
treatment system.
   (D)   Permits shall not be required for normal routine inspection and
maintenance of approved Individual Subsurface Sewage Treatment Systems that do
not require an operating Permit.
   (E)   Permit applications shall be made in writing on forms provided by the
Department and shall contain data, including, but not limited to, to be
considered a completed Permit application:
      (1)   Correct legal description of the property, including Property
Identification Number or GEO Code;
      (2)   Site plan, drawn to scale, showing the location of all proposed and
existing structures, property lines, water supply wells within 100 feet,
terrain features, such as blufflines, water bodies or water ways, buried
utilities, easements, and other unique features of the Site;
      (3)   Soil test date, including soil boring logs, percolation test data
with field notes (where required) and location and identification of test area;
      (4)   Plans and details of the proposed installation of work, including
engineering data and final design;
      (5)   Building plans showing existing and proposed room arrangement and
uses;
      (6)   For other than Dwellings, calculated or measured water use rates,
occupancy, and occupant load;
      (7)   In certain cases, a property survey may be required identifying
property characteristics and including such items as elevations, contour lines,
normal high water marks, and ten year and 100 year flood elevations;
      (8)   Evidence of compliance with state or other jurisdiction regulations
where applicable;
      (9)   A Management Plan for the proposed system, as described in § 52.22
(A).
   (F)   No Permit will be issued until a detailed system design is submitted
for the current proposed construction, including Site plan, a Management Plan
and at least one current soil boring if there is reason to believe some
conditions have been altered since the Original Soil testing.
   (G)   Permits shall be valid upon issuance and shall continue for a period
of one year. After one year, the Permit may be renewed if no changes are
proposed. Such renewal shall require reapplication and payment of the
established fee.
   (H)   Permits issued under this chapter may be revoked upon written notice
by the Department when such Permit has been issued based on erroneous or
inaccurate data supplied by the applicant or erroneous interpretation of the
law by a Building official.
§ 52.07 OPERATING PERMITS.
   (A)   Operating Permits are required for the following systems:
      (1)   Type III Systems.
      (2)   Type IV Systems.
      (3)   Type V Systems.
      (4)   All MSTS.
      (5)   Holding tanks as described in § 52.18(E).
      (6)   Food, beverage, and lodging establishments that discharge high-
strength waste to the soil treatment area.
      (7)   Hazardous waste generators with subsurface Sewage treatment
systems.
   (B)   Operating Permits will be issued by the Department or the local unit
of government.
   (C)   Operating Permits must include:
      (1)   Maintenance requirements, including frequency of maintenance;
      (2)   Operational requirements;
      (3)   Compliance limits and boundaries;
      (4)   Reporting frequency;
      (5)   A requirement that the Permittee notify the Department or local
unit of government when perm requirements are not met. Corrective actions must
be taken as directed by the Department or local unit of government;
      (6)   Disclosure of the location and condition of the additional soil
treatment and dispersal system; and
      (7)   A stipulation of acceptable and prohibited discharges.
§ 52.08 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspections as required to determine compliance with this chapter
shall be performed by the Department or its authorized agent under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   Site inspections to verify and evaluate soil and Site conditions
and to determine the suitability of soils and system design prior to Permit
issuance.
      (2)   Necessary investigation to determine compliance of Existing Systems
at the time of remodeling, alteration, or additions.
      (3)   For all new SSTS construction or Replacement.
      (4)   Mound systems require a minimum of three construction inspections:
         (a)   When the Original Soil under the mound has been roughened, but
prior to placement of the Sand fill. Enough of the proposed Sand fill must be
present to be viewed.
         (b)   After placement of rock and piping, but prior to cover.
         (c)   When the mound is completed.
   (B)   Installation inspections shall be made by the Department prior to any
work having been covered by backfill.
   (C)   The licensed installation business shall be responsible to notify the
Department a minimum of 24 hours prior to the time work is ready for inspection
or reinspection.
   (D)   Work which is backfilled prior to a required inspection may be ordered
to be uncovered whenever necessary to determine compliance.
   (E)   If upon inspection any part of the system is determined not to be in
compliance with this chapter, written notice shall be provided by the
Department indicating the deficiency and the required corrections. Noted
deficiencies shall be properly corrected and reinspected before any other work
on the project is continued.
   (F)   No system shall be placed or replaced in service until a final
inspection has been completed and the system installation has been approved.
   (G)   The Owner or occupant of a property shall be responsible to provide
access at a reasonable time to the Department or its authorized agent for the
purpose of performing inspections required under this chapter.
   (H)   The contractor, upon completion of installation, shall file with the
Department as-built drawings indicating the location of system components
dimensioned from a permanent reference point.
   (I)   If an inspection is conducted as a part of preparation of the
disclosure required by M.S. § 115.55, subd. 6 and such inspection is conducted
by a party who is not the property Owner, such party must be licensed in
accordance with MPCA rules and regulations and the notice of compliance or
noncompliance provided to the property Owner must also be provided to
Washington County within 30 days of the inspection.
   (J)   Compliance Inspections must be conducted:
      (1)   To ensure compliance with applicable requirements;
      (2)   Prior to the transfer of any real property, unless the age of the
system is less than five years;
      (3)   To ensure compliance before issuance of a Permit for the addition
of a Bedroom on property served 1 an SSTS;
      (4)   For all New Construction or Replacement;
      (5)   By a qualified employee or licensed inspection business, authorized
by the Department or local unit government, who is independent of the Owner and
the installer;
      (6)   For an evaluation, investigation, inspection, recommendation, or
other process used to prepare disclosure if conducted by a party who is not the
system Owner. The disclosure action constitutes Compliance Inspection and must
be conducted according to Minn. Rules Chapter 7082; and
      (7)   When deemed necessary by the Department to ascertain the compliance
of an Existing System.
   (K)   A licensed inspection business that inspects an existing SSTS is
allowed to subsequently design and install new SSTS for that property, provided
the inspection business is also licensed to design and install. A license
inspection business working on behalf of the Department or local unit of
government must not design install a system if there is likelihood that the
inspector or business will be responsible for Permitting inspecting the system
or system Site. A person working for or on behalf of the Department or local
unit government is not allowed to use the person's position to solicit for
private business gain.
   (L)   An appropriately licensed SSTS business may inspect an Existing System
which they installed once it has be independently inspected.
   (M)   Certificate of compliance; Notice of Noncompliance.
      (1)   SSTS in compliance with applicable requirements must be issued a
Certificate of Compliance a systems found not in compliance must be issued a
Notice of Noncompliance. SSTS not in compliance with § 52.04(C)(1) or § 52.04
(G) must be repaired or replaced within 30 days or as directed under M.S.
Chapter 145A. Systems out of compliance with other applicable requirements must
be repaired or replaced according to local ordinance requirements. Systems
issued a Notice of Noncompliance for operational or monitoring deficiencies
must immediately be maintained, monitored, or managed according to the
operating Permit.
      (2)   The initial Certificate of Compliance must be issued if reasonable
assurance is evident that the system was built according to applicable
requirements as specified in the construction Permit.
      (3)   The Certificate of Compliance for New Construction and Replacement
must include the Vertical Separation distance report described in division (N)
(2)(b) of this section, and the Management Plan developed under § 52.22(A). All
certificates of compliance and notices of noncompliance for New Construction
and Replacement must include property and property Owner identification, date
of inspection, system components, system location (dimensioned or drawn to
scale), well Setback distance, field check of soil conditions, SWF, as defined
under § 52.02, designations as applicable, and Class designation as applicable.
      (4)   A Certificate of Compliance or Notice of Noncompliance for New
Construction or Replacement must signed by a qualified employee Certified as an
inspector who is authorized by the Department or local unit of government. The
Certificate of Compliance or Notice of Noncompliance for New Construction and
Replacement must be submitted to the Owner or Owner's agent within 15 days.
      (5)   A Certificate of Compliance or Notice of Noncompliance must include
a Certified statement from the qualified employee who conducted the Compliance
Inspection and indicate whether the SSTS is in compliance with this chapter.
      (6)   If a Compliance Inspection indicates that the system is not in
compliance with applicable requirements, the notice must contain a statement to
this effect.
      (7)   Certificates of compliance for New Construction or a Replacement
system remain valid for five years from the date of issuance unless the
Department or local unit of government finds evidence of noncompliance.
   (N)   Certificate of compliance; Notice of Noncompliance; Existing Systems.
      (1)   The Agency's existing SSTS inspection report forms shall be used
for Existing System Compliance Inspections.
      (2)   An inspection for existing SSTS must verify the conditions in
divisions (N)(2)(a) to (c).
         (a)   Sewage tanks must be assessed for leakage below the operating
depth. A leakage report must be completed that includes the method or methods
used to make the assessment. The assessment must be made by either a licensed
SSTS business, except a design business, or a qualified employee with an SSTS
certification, except as a designer. A passing report is valid for three years
unless the Certified individual has reason to believe that a new inspection is
to be conducted and the tank is found not to be Watertight.
         (b)   The Vertical Separation distance from the bottom of the Soil
Dispersal System and the Periodically Saturated Soil or Bedrock must be
verified. This verification must be achieved by either conducting soil borings
or by prior verifications by two independent parties. The soil borings used for
system design or previous inspections qualify as a verification. A Vertical
Separation distance report must be completed that includes the method or
methods used to make the assessment and includes any previous soil borings. The
assessment must be made by either a licensed inspection or design business or a
qualified employee inspector with jurisdiction. If the verification separation
report consists of verifications by two independent parties, a subsequent
verification is not required unless the inspector has reason to believe a
noncompliant condition exists.
         (c)   Sewage backup, surface seeping, or surface discharge from the
system must be determined. A hydraulic function report must be completed that
includes the method or methods used to make the assessment. The assessment must
be made by either a licensed inspection business or a qualified employee with
an inspector certification. A passing report is valid until a new inspection is
requested or if the hydraulic performance is believed to have changed.
      (3)   A Certificate of Compliance for an Existing System Compliance
Inspection shall be based on the results of the verifications in division (N)
(2) of this section. The Certificate of Compliance for an Existing System
Compliance Inspection must be signed by a licensed inspection business or a
qualified employee Certified as an inspector. The certificate or notice for an
Existing System Compliance Inspection must be submitted to the Department or
local unit of government with jurisdiction and the property Owner or Owner's
agent no later than 15 days after a Compliance Inspection. The completed form
must also be submitted to the Owner or Owner's agent. The Certificate of
Compliance for an Existing System Compliance Inspection is valid for three
years from the date of issuance, even if one of the supporting reports expires
before the three-year period, unless an inspector finds evidence of
noncompliance.
      (4)   If a Compliance Inspection for an Existing System indicates that
the system is noncompliant, the notice must be signed by a licensed inspection
business or qualified employee Certified as an inspector and contain a
statement to that effect and specify what must be done to achieve compliance.
   (O)   Periodically saturated soil disagreements.
      (1)   If a documented discrepancy arises on the depth of the Periodically
Saturated Soil between licensee businesses for SSTS design or compliance
purposes, all disputing parties must follow the procedure outlined in this
subpart.
      (2)   One or more of the methods in units division (O)(2)(a) to (c) must
be employed.
         (a)   Obtain an opinion from a qualified employee of the Department or
local Permitting authority with jurisdiction, if the Department or local
Permitting authority is willing to provide an opinion.
         (b)   Obtain an opinion from an SSTS technical evaluation committee,
if a committee has been developed for this purpose and is available and willing
to render an opinion. The committee must be created in cooperation with the
commissioner.
         (c)   Obtain an opinion from a Minnesota licensed professional soil
scientist who is a Certified SSTS designer or inspector and who is independent
of, and agreed upon by, both parties.
         (d)   If options under division (O)(2)(a) or (O)(2)(b) of this section
are not viable, an opinion must be rendered under division (O)(2)(C) of this
section.
      (3)   If opinions rendered in divisions (O)(1) or (2) of this section do
not resolve the dispute, all initial and follow-up documents and information
generated must be submitted to the Department or local unit of government. The
Department or local unit of government shall take into consideration all
information and opinions rendered and make a final judgment. The Department or
local unit of government shall render findings of fact, conclusions of law, and
findings setting forth the reasons for any final decisions it renders.
      (4)   If a documented discrepancy arises on the depth of the Periodically
Saturated Soil between an SSTS licensed business and the Department or local
unit of government for SSTS design or compliance purposes, all disputing
parties shall follow the procedure outlined in this item.
         (a)   The Department or local unit of government and the licensed
business must meet at the disputed Site in an attempt to resolve differences.
         (b)   If the provision in division (O)(4)(a) of this section does not
resolve differences, then one or more of the methods in division (O)(2)(b) or
(c) of this section are allowed to be employed.
         (c)   If opinions in division (O)(4)(b) of this section are not sought
or do not resolve the dispute, the Department or local unit of government shall
take into consideration all information am opinions rendered and make a final
judgment. The Department or local unit of government shall render findings of
fact, conclusions of law, and findings setting forth the reasons for any final
decisions they render.
      (5)   Upon resolution of a dispute, amendments to initial disputed
documents containing the resolution shall be made and submitted to the
Department or local unit of government and all other entities involved.
§ 52.09 SITE EVALUATION AND SOIL TESTING.
   (A)   Site evaluations consisting of preliminary and field evaluations
according to parts this Section must be conducted for all proposed Sites for
SSTS, including both ISTS and MSTS. The Site evaluation is considered the first
phase of an SSTS design.
   (B)   A preliminary evaluation for Individual Subsurface Sewage Treatment
Systems shall consist of determination, location, or existence of the following
items:
      (1)   Design flow for the Dwelling, Dwellings, or Other Establishments.
      (2)   Proposed or existing:
         (a)   Water supply wells within 100 feet of the proposed SSTS;
         (b)   Existing and proposed Buildings or improvements on the Lot; and,
         (c)   Buried water Supply Pipes within 50 feet of the proposed system.
      (3)   Easements on the Lot.
      (4)   The Ordinary High Water Level of Public Waters, if adjacent to the
Lot.
      (5)   Floodplain designation and flooding elevation from published data
or data that is acceptable to and approved by the Department or local unit of
government or the DNR, if applicable.
      (6)   Property lines.
      (7)   All required Setbacks from the system.
      (8)   The soil characteristics at the proposed soil treatment and
dispersal areas as obtained by the soil survey report, including the soil map,
map units, landscape position, Parent Material, flooding potential, Slope
range, Periodically Saturated Soil level, depth to Bedrock, texture, color,
depth to Redoximorphic Features, and structure and consistence of soil
horizons.
      (9)   A geocode or property identification number.
      (10)   Names of property Owners.
      (11)   The Inner Wellhead Management Zone or Wellhead Protection Area of
a public water supply, if applicable.
   (C)   A field evaluation for an Individual Subsurface Sewage Treatment
System shall consist of the following items:
      (1)   Lot lines shall be confirmed in the field using the most recent
document source. Lot improvements, required Setbacks, and easements must be
identified.
      (2)   The following surface features must be described:
         (a)   The percent and direction of the Slope of the proposed system
location.
         (b)   Vegetation types.
         (c)   Any evidence of cut or filled areas or disturbed or compacted
soil.
         (d)   The flooding or run-on potential.
         (e)   A Geomorphic Description.
   (D)   For subdivision or Lot approval testing, enough soil observations must
be conducted to assure that suitable soil exists for each Lot for Long-Term
Sewage Treatment outlining an area with enough space on the Lot for two soil
treatment and dispersal areas. This tested area must be at least 10,000 square
feet. Percolation tests are not required for subdivision or Lot approval
testing unless the permeability cannot be estimated or there is reason to
believe the soil is not original or has been disturbed.
   (E)   Complete soil testing on each individual Lot must be conducted prior
to Permit issuance independent of any prior subdivision or Lot approval
testing. For Permit issuance, a minimum of four soil observations outlining an
area of 5,000 square feet are required. At least one soil observation must be
performed in the portion of the soil treatment area anticipated to have the
most limiting conditions. Larger areas may be required where conditions of use,
soils, topography, or vegetation require. Soil observations must comply with
the following requirements:
      (1)   The soil observation must be conducted within or on the borders of
the proposed Site;
      (2)   The soil observations must be performed in an exposed pit or by
hand augering or probing. The use of flight augers is not allowed;
      (3)   The soil observation method must allow observation of the different
soil horizons that constitute the soil profile and, if determining the loading
rate by use of Table IX in Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.21501 undisturbed soil
structure must be observed;
      (4)   Soil observations must be conducted prior to any required
percolation tests to determine whether the soils are suitable to warrant
percolation tests and, if suitable, at what depth percolation tests shall be
conducted;
      (5)   The minimum depth of the soil observations must be to the
periodically saturated layer, to the Bedrock, or three feet below the proposed
depth of the system, whichever is less.
   (F)   Each soil profile observed at the proposed soil treatment and
dispersal area must be evaluated under adequate light conditions with the soil
in a moist unfrozen state for the characteristics in items (F)(1) through (8):
      (1)   The depth of each soil horizon measured from the ground surface.
Soil horizons are differentiated by changes in texture, color, Redoximorphic
Features, Bedrock, structure, consistence, and any other characteristics that
affects water movement or treatment of effluent.
      (2)   A description of all soil colors for each horizon according to the
Munsell Soil Color Charts, Revised Edition, Munsell Color Corporation (1992),
or equivalent. The color charts are incorporated by reference, are available
through the Minitex interlibrary loan system, and are not subject to frequent
change.
      (3)   A description of the Soil Texture, and structure using the United
States Department of Agriculture (USDA) soil classification system as specified
in the Field Book for Describing and Sampling Soils, which is incorporated by
reference under §
52.02.
      (4)   Depth to Bedrock.
      (5)   Depth to Periodically Saturated Soil for New Construction or
Replacement as determined by Redoximorphic Features and other indicators, as
determined in divisions (a) to (c) below:
         (a)   In Subsoil and Parent Material, Redoximorphic Features include:
            1.   Distinct redoximorphic iron accumulation or
Distinctredoximorphic iron depletions;
            2.   A gleyed or depleted soil Matrix or redoximorphic Mottles
having a color chroma of two or less or a depleted Matrix or redoximorphic
Mottles having a color hue of 5Y and a chroma of three or less; or
            3.   Faint redoximorphic concentrations or faint redoximorphic
depletions in Subsoil or Parent Material with a hue of 7.5YR or redder.
         (b)   In lower Topsoil layers that are deeper than 12 inches from the
surface and are immediately followed in depth by a periodically saturated
horizon, Redoximorphic Features include:
            1.   Soil colors with a redoximorphic chroma of two or less; or
            2.   Redoximorphic accumulations or depletions.
         (c)   In the upper 12 inches of the Topsoil layer immediately below
which occurs a periodically saturated horizon, the depth of seasonal saturation
is determined by indicators in divisions 1. to 5. below:
            1.   Soil colors with a chroma of zero;
            2.   Organic Soil Textures or mineral Soil Textures with an organic
modifier;
            3.   Dominance of hydrophytic vegetation;
            4.   The soil treatment area at or near the elevation of the
Ordinary High Water Level of a surface water or in a concave hill Slope
position; or
            5.   Redoximorphic accumulations or depletions.
      (6)   Depth to Periodically Saturated Soil for all Existing Systems,
determined by Redoximorphic Features in division (F)(5) of this section, except
divisions (F)(5)(b)1. and (F)(5)(c)1., 3., and 5., as measured outside the area
of the system influence in an area of similar soil.
      (7)   Depth of standing water in the soil observation excavation,
measured from the soil surface, if observed.
      (8)   Any other soil characteristics that needs to be described to design
a system, such as hardpans or restrictive layers. These other characteristics
must be classified according to the Field Book for Describing and Sampling
Soils, which is incorporated by reference under §
52.02.
   (G)   The effluent loading and Absorption Area size must be determined by
either item (G)(1) or (2).
      (1)   The loading rate based on an examination of Soil Texture,
undisturbed structure, and consistence at the most limiting layer within 12
inches below the proposed Absorption Area using the United States Department of
Agriculture (USDA) soil classification system as specified in the Field Book
for Describing and Sampling Soils, which is incorporated by reference under §
52.02; or
      (2)   The loading rate based on the percolation procedure described in
divisions (G)(2)(a) to (h).
         (a)   Each test hole must be six to eight inches in diameter, have
vertical sides, and be located at the depth of the proposed soil Absorption
Area. For mounds and At-Grade Systems, the bottom of each test hole must be in
the upper 12 inches of the Original Soil. For Trenches and Seepage Beds, the
bottom of each test hole shall be at the depth of the Absorption Area;
         (b)   Soil texture descriptions for percolation test holes must note
the depths from the ground surface where texture changes occur;
         (c)   The bottom and sides of the hole must be carefully scratched to
remove any smearing and to provide a natural soil surface into which water
penetrates. The scarification must not result in the hole having a diameter of
greater than eight inches;
         (d)   All loose material must be removed from the bottom of the test
hole and two inches of one-fourth to three-fourths inch gravel or Clean Sand
must be added to protect the bottom from scouring;
         (e)   The hole must be carefully filled with clear water to a minimum
depth of 12 inches from the bottom of the test hole and maintained for no less
than four hours for saturation to occur. The soil must then be allowed to swell
for at least 16, but no more than 30, hours. In sandy soils, the saturation and
swelling procedure is not required and the test is allowed to proceed if the
initial filling of the hole with 12 inches of water seeps away in less than ten
minutes;
         (f)   In sandy soils, water depth must be adjusted to eight inches
over the soil at the bottom of the test hole. From a fixed reference point, the
drop in water level must be measured in inches to the nearest 1/16 inch at
approximately ten-minute intervals. A measurement is also allowed to be made by
determining the time it takes for the water level to drop one inch from an
eight inch reference point. If eight inches of water seeps away in less than
ten minutes, a shorter interval between measurements must be used, but water
depth must not exceed eight inches. The test must continue until three
consecutive Percolation Rate measurements do not vary by more than ten percent.
In other soils, the water depth must be adjusted to eight inches over the soil
at the bottom of the test hole. From a fixed reference point, the drop in water
level must be measured in inches to the nearest 1/16 inch at approximately 30-
minute intervals and refilled between measurements to maintain an eight inch
starting head. If water seeps away in less than 30 minutes, a shorter time
interval between measurements must be used, but water depth must not exceed
eight inches. The test must continue until three consecutive Percolation Rate
measurements do not vary by more than ten percent. The Percolation Rate is also
allowed to be determined by observing the time it takes the water level to drop
one inch from an eight-inch reference point if a constant water depth of at
least eight inches has been maintained for at least four hours prior to the
measurement;
         (g)   The time interval must be divided in minutes by the drop in
water level in inches to obtain the Percolation Rate in minutes per inch. The
Percolation Rates that are within the ten percent provision determined for each
test hole must be averaged to determine the final Percolation Rate for that
hole. The slowest final Percolation Rate for all holes within the Soil
Dispersal Area must be used for design; and
         (h)   A percolation test must not be run where frost exists within 12
inches of the bottom of the percolation test hole.
   (H)   A written report on the Site evaluation for an Individual Subsurface
Sewage Treatment System must be prepared and include the following:
      (1)   Preliminary and field evaluation results from divisions (B) through
(F) of this section.
      (2)   Dates of preliminary and field evaluations.
      (3)   A map drawn to scale or dimension, with a north arrow, and
including:
         (a)   Horizontal and vertical reference points of the proposed soil
treatment and dispersal areas, soil observations, percolation tests, and
pertinent distance from the proposed SSTS to all required Setbacks, Lot
improvements, easements, ordinary high water mark of Public Waters, property
lines, and direction and percent Slope.
         (b)   The location of any unsuitable, disturbed, or compacted areas.
         (c)   The access route for system maintenance.
      (4)   The estimated depth of Periodically Saturated Soil layer, Bedrock,
or flood elevation, if appropriate.
      (5)   The proposed elevation of the bottom of the soil treatment and
dispersal system.
      (6)   Anticipated construction related issues.
      (7)   The name, address, telephone number, and Certified statement of the
individual conducting the Site evaluation.
      (8)   An assessment of how known or reasonably foreseeable land use
changes are expected to affect system performance, including, but not limited
to, changes in drainage patterns, increased impervious surfaces, and proximity
of new water supply wells.
      (9)   A narrative explaining any difficulties encountered during the Site
evaluation, including, but not limited to, identifying, and interpreting soil
and landform features and how the difficulties were resolved.
      (10)   A notation of any differences between observed soil
characteristics and those identified in the soil survey report.
   (I)   Applicants for subsurface Sewage treatment system Permits, Site
approvals or subdivision approvals will be required to submit soil test data
from soil borings and percolation tests, or soil pits, for each proposed Site
or installation. The minimum testing shall be that necessary to verify suitable
conditions for two complete soil dispersal and treatment areas.
   (J)   All soil testing shall be conducted in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter and shall be conducted by appropriately licensed
businesses and Certified individuals in accordance with Minn. Rules Chapter
7083.
   (K)   Prior to and during construction or Lot improvements, the proposed
initial and Replacement soil treatment and dispersal areas shall be protected
from disturbance, compaction, or other damage by use of stakes and silt fence
or snow fence.
   (L)   Underground utilities must be located before soil observations are
undertaken. Required safety precautions must be taken before entering soil
observation pits.
   (M)   Where soil tests require a mound, testing and design must clearly show
suitable area for installation of two complete mounds. Where Site conditions
are such that the only backup mound will likely be disturbed, the Department,
at its discretion, may require both mounds to be constructed at once.
   (N)   Designs for New Construction or Replacement SSTS must comply with all
applicable requirements and any other applicable codes, rules, and laws.
§ 52.10 MSTS SITE EVALUATION AND SOIL TESTING.
   (A)   Soil and Site evaluations must be conducted for MSTS design. The
evaluations must be conducted according to this section and §
52.09. Evaluations must identify and delineate an initial and Replacement soil
treatment and dispersal area with appropriate system boundaries.
   (B)   A preliminary evaluation for Midsized Subsurface Sewage Treatment
Systems shall consist of determining:
      (1)   The design flow and anticipated effluent concentrations of
Biochemical Oxygen Demand, total suspended solids, and fats, oils, and grease,
and inputs of non-Domestic Waste.
      (2)   Whether the location of water supply wells impacts the location of
the system due to Setback constraints.
      (3)   Whether Building improvements will be within 50 feet of the
proposed soil treatment and dispersal area.
      (4)   Whether buried water Supply Pipes will be within 50 feet of the
proposed system.
      (5)   Whether easements will be within 50 feet of the proposed system.
      (6)   Whether the Ordinary High Water Level of Public Waters will be
within 500 feet of the proposed soil treatment and dispersal area and if so, a
preliminary assessment of phosphorus impacts to the surface water.
      (7)   Whether the system will be located in a Floodplain and the system
location in relation to the 100-year flooding elevation from published data if
available or data that is acceptable to the Department or local unit of
government.
      (8)   The required Setbacks from the proposed soil treatment and
dispersal system.
      (9)   The soil survey information on the proposed Soil Dispersal Area,
including the soil map, map units, landscape position, Parent Material,
flooding potential, Slope range, Periodically Saturated Soil level, depth to
Bedrock, texture, color, and structure of soil horizons, and permeability of
soil horizons.
      (10)   A geocode or property identification number.
      (11)   The names of the property Owners; and
      (12)   The location of the system on a United States Geological Survey
quadrangle map of the proposed soil treatment and dispersal area and the area
within one mile.
   (C)   Before conducting a field evaluation, the designer shall confer with
the Department or local unit of government to determine the requirements and
scope of the evaluation, dependent upon system size, soil conditions, and other
applicable factors. At a minimum, the requirements in this section must be met:
      (1)   Property lines must be confirmed in the field using the most recent
document source. Site improvements, required Setbacks, and easements must be
identified, located, and marked.
      (2)   A general evaluation and description of the proposed Soil Dispersal
Area, including a general Geomorphic Description, current land use, and past
land use, if known, must be provided.
      (3)   The following surface features must be identified and described:
         (a)   The dominant vegetation.
         (b)   Evidence of disturbed or compacted soil or flooding or run-on
potential.
         (c)   Landscape position, including landform, Slope gradient, Slope
direction, and surface morphometry as described in the Field Book for
Describing and Sampling Soils Version 2.0. September 2002, developed by the
National Soil Survey Center and Natural Resources Conservation Service of the
United States Department of Agriculture. The field book is incorporated by
reference, is not subject to frequent change, and is available through the
Minitex interlibrary loan system.
   (D)   The required number of soil pits to adequately characterize the soil
on the proposed Site must be determined by the professional judgment of the
designer as based on the size of the area, consistency of the soil, and
approved by the Department or local unit of government.
   (E)   The qualifying soil observation pits to be used for the MSTS design
must be located on or near the borders of the proposed soil treatment and
dispersal area. Soil observation pits must be dug outside the Soil Dispersal
Area, if possible. The soil must be observed and described to a depth of at
least three feet below the proposed depth of the system. Other soil observation
pits are allowed to supplement the required soil observation pit information.
   (F)   Underground utilities must be located before soil observations are
undertaken. Required safety precautions must be taken before entering soil
observation pits.
   (G)   The following soil observations must be made:
      (1)   The soil properties and features described in items (F)(1)(a) to
(m) must be described according to the Field Book for Describing and Sampling
Soils, which is incorporated by reference under §
52.02.
         (a)   Matrix soil color.
         (b)   Soil features that have different colors from the Matrix color,
including, but not limited to, clay films, organic stains, silt coats, nodules,
and concretions.
         (c)   Abundance, size, color, and contrast of Redoximorphic Features.
         (d)   Soil texture, with modifiers.
         (e)   Grade, size, and shape of soil structure.
         (f)   Moist soil consistence.
         (g)   Abundance and size of rock fragments.
         (h)   Abundance and size of roots.
         (i)   Horizon boundary conditions.
         (j)   Parent materials.
         (k)   Pores, quantity, and size.
         (l)   Quantity of boulders and tree stumps affecting construction.
         (m)   Any other characteristics of feature that affects permeability
of the soil or treatment of Sewage effluent.
      (2)   The depth to Bedrock, if encountered, must be determined by the
requirements in §
52.02.
      (3)   The elevation of standing water evident in any soil pit must be
identified.
      (4)   The soil must not be described when frozen, at improper moisture
content, or under poor light conditions.
   (H)   Hydraulic conductivity testing of the soil must be employed, along
with a determination of the soil's texture, structure, and consistence, to
determine the loading rate of effluent in the soil. The frequency of
observations and measurements must be determined by the professional judgment
of the designer, dependent on the variation in soil conditions and the system
size, with the frequency of the observations and measurements approved by the
Department or local unit of government.
   (I)   All field soil information gathered must be compared with soil survey
information. Any discrepancies shall be identified.
   (J)   Site and soil information gathered in divisions (B) through (I) of
this section must be interpreted for suitability for MSTS siting, design, and
construction, with consideration of the following:
      (1)   Surface features impacts from precipitation, run-on, and interflow
or any other item that could have potential to adversely impact the ability of
the soil to accept water.
      (2)   Cultural features, including, but not limited to, Setbacks and
easements.
      (3)   Site conditions affecting system layout, distribution system
requirements, and constructability.
      (4)   Layers of coarse Soil Textures that affect treatment.
      (5)   Disturbed, compacted, cut-filled, or other unnatural condition, if
present.
      (6)   The uniformity of the soil over the Site.
      (7)   Future surrounding land use changes.
      (8)   Soil sizing factor or loading rate.
      (9)   An approximation of the rise in groundwater from system operations
as determined by a Groundwater Mounding assessment. A narrative evaluation of
the accuracy of the approximation must be provided. The approximation must be
related to the requirements in § 52.16(E)(7).
   (K)   Systems proposed to be located in Flood Fringes must determine
feasibility of relocating the system outside the Floodplain.
   (L)   The limiting layer in the soil shall be determined based on the depth
of Bedrock or Periodically Saturated Soil if encountered. The depth of
Periodically Saturated Soil shall be determined according to §
52.09(F)(5), and the depth to Bedrock shall be as defined in §
52.02.
   (M)   The proposed soil treatment and dispersal areas shall be protected
from disturbance, compaction, or other damage by use of stakes and silt fence
or snow fence.
   (N)   All information gathered in divisions (B) through (L) of this section
must be submitted for review and approved by the Department or local unit of
government prior to final design. The submittal must also contain:
      (1)   A map of the proposed Soil Dispersal Area, drawn to scale, showing:
         (a)   Features with a Setback within 150 feet of the system.
         (b)   Easements within 50 feet of the system.
         (c)   Floodplains, wetlands, and surface waters, within 100 feet of
the system.
         (d)   Location and elevation of all soil pits, borings, and hydraulic
tests.
         (e)   Two-foot contour lines.
      (2)   Dates and weather conditions during the field evaluations.
      (3)   Elevations of the Periodically Saturated Soil or Bedrock.
      (4)   Proposed depths of the system bottom.
      (5)   Proposed soil loading rate.
      (6)   System Site boundaries.
      (7)   Anticipated construction related issues.
      (8)   The name, address, telephone number, and Certified statement of the
individual conducting the Site evaluation.
      (9)   A narrative explaining any difficulties encountered during the Site
evaluation, including, but not limited to, identifying, and interpreting soil
and landform features and how the difficulties were resolved.
§ 52.11 GROUNDWATER INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   A preliminary groundwater assessment for nitrogen impacts to aquifers
must be conducted for all proposed MSTS according to this section.
   (B)   The following information must be ascertained from the best available
information:
      (1)   The size of the Soil Dispersal System, proposed loading rate, and
system geometry.
      (2)   The geocode(s) or parcel identification number(s) of the parcel(s)
where the proposed Soil Dispersal Area is to be located.
      (3)   Any anticipated discharges from nondomestic sources to the proposed
MSTS.
      (4)   The location of the MSTS on a United States Geological Survey
quadrangle topographic map, including the area within a one-mile radius of the
proposed soil treatment system.
      (5)   A determination of the general geology, periodic soil saturation,
regional groundwater setting, and aquifers used for water supply and a
description of the general Site hydrology characteristics, including, but not
limited to, identification and estimated depth measurements to geologic units
and aquifers, and identification of groundwater confining strata.
      (6)   A determination whether the proposed system is in a drinking water
supply management area, Inner Wellhead Management Zone, source water protection
area, groundwater sensitive area, or a special well construction area.
      (7)   An assessment of all water supply wells within a 300-foot radius of
the proposed soil treatment area with a minimum assessment of well locations
and casing depths from well construction log records. If no records exist, the
well locations and casing depths must be estimated.
      (8)   A determination or estimation of groundwater flow direction.
      (9)   An assessment of pathogenic organism, nitrogen, and phosphorus
impacts from the system.
   (C)   The designer must consult with the Department or local unit of
government to determine whether the Department or local unit of government will
require a field or further groundwater investigation and, if so, the extent of
the investigation. The field or further investigation must be conducted if
information gained in division (B) of this section indicates that a proposed
system is a potential contaminant threat to a regional water table, an aquifer,
water supply well(s), or surface waters. The threats of concern include, but
are not limited to, fecal organism contamination, nitrate contamination, or
phosphorus impacts to surface waters.
   (D)   The designer must consult with the Department or local unit of
government to determine if the Department or local unit of government will
require effluent or groundwater monitoring and, if so, the extent of the
monitoring. Monitoring must be conducted if information gained in divisions (B)
and (C) of this section indicates that a proposed system is a potential
contaminant threat to a regional water table, an aquifer, or a water supply
well or impacts surface waters. The Groundwater Mound height must be monitored
under all MSTS during operation.
   (E)   The information gathered in this part must be used to estimate or
measure if the system adequately protects the groundwater and surface water as
prescribed in part §
52.04(I). The interpretation must include an evaluation of whether contaminant
plumes will intersect water supply Well Capture Zones.
   (F)   All information required in this part must be submitted for review and
approval of the Department or local unit of government prior to final design,
including all applicable information delineated on a map.
§ 52.12 SEWAGE FLOW DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Completion of tasks outlined in §§
52.12 to
52.21 is considered the second phase of SSTS design.
   (B)   The estimated design flow for any Dwelling must provide for at least
two (2) Bedrooms. For multiple or multifamily Dwellings, the design flow
consists of the sum of the design flows for each individual unit.
   (C)   The estimated design flow for Dwellings is based on Table I, which is
based on calculating the number of Bedrooms by 150 gallons per day.
Table I
Number of Bedrooms   Gallons per Day
   2            300
   3            450
   4            600
   5            750
   6            900
    (D)   The design flow for MSTS serving existing Dwellings is determined by
the following calculation in conjunction with division (C) of this section.:
      Total flow from the ten highest flow Dwellings + (total flow from the
remaining Dwellings X 0.45)
   (E)   For new housing developments, the developer shall determine and
restrict the total number of Bedrooms for the development and determine the
design flow by multiplying the total number of Bedrooms by 110 gallons per day.
If the ultimate development of phased or segmented growth meets or exceeds
10,000 gallons per day, the initial system or systems and all subsequent
systems require a state disposal system Permit.
   (F)   If construction of additional Dwellings or Bedrooms, installation of
water-using devices, or other factors likely to increase the flow volumes can
be reasonably anticipated, the SSTS must be designed to accommodate the
additional capacity as determined by the Department or local unit of
government.
   (G)   Design Sewage flow for Other Establishments are determined by methods
in divisions (G)(1) or (2) below:
      (1)   The design flow of Sewage for MSTS serving Other Establishments is
estimated using Table II.
      (2)   The measured design flow of Sewage for MSTS serving Other
Establishments is determined by averaging the measured daily flows for a
consecutive seven-day period in which the establishment is at maximum capacity
or use.
Table II - Estimated Design Sewage Flow from Other Establishments
Dwelling Units                Unit Design Flow (gallons/day/unit)
(also see outdoor recreation)
Dwelling Units                                        Design Flow (gallons/day/
(also see outdoor          Unit                       unit)
recreation)
Hotel or luxury hotel      Guest                      55
                          Square foot                0.28
Motel                      Guest                      38
                          Square foot                0.33
Rooming house              Resident                   45
                          Add for each non-resident  3.3
                           meal
Daycare (no meals)         Child                      19
Daycare (with meals)       Child                      23
Dormitory                  Person                     43
Labor camp                 Person                     18
Labor camp, semi permanent Person                     50
                                                     
Commercial/Industrial      Unit                       Design Flow
                                                      (gallons/day/unit)
Retail Store               Square foot                0.13
                          Customer                   3.8
                          Toilet                     590
Shopping center            Employee                   11.5
                          Square foot                0.15
                          Parking space              2.5
Office                     Employees/8-hour shift     18
                          Square foot                0.18
Medical office*            Square foot                1.1
                          Practitioner               275
                          Patient                    8
Industrial Building        Employees/8-hour shift     17.5
                          Employees/8-hour shift     25
                           with showers
Laundromat                 Machine                    635
                          Load                       52.5
                          Square foot                2.6
Barber shop                Chair                      68
Beauty salon               Station                    285
Flea market                Nonfood vendor/space       15
                          Limited food vender/space  25
                          With food vendor/space     50
                                                     
Eating and Drinking        Unit                       Design Flow (gallons/day/
Establishments                                        unit)
Restaurant (does not       Meal without alcoholic     3.5
include bar or lounge)     drinks
                          Meal with alcoholic drinks 8
                           (open 16 hours or less)
                          Seat (open 16 hours or     30
                           less)
                          Seat (open more than 16    50
                           hours)
                           Seat (open 16 hours or
                          less, single service       20
                           articles)
                           Seat (open more than 16
                          hours, single service      35-
                           articles)
Restaurant - short order   Customer                   7
Restaurant - drive-in      Car Space                  30
Restaurant - carry out,    Square foot                0.5
including caterers
Institution meals          Meal                       5.0
Food outlet                Square foot                0.2
Dining hall                Meal                       8.5
Coffee shop                Customer                   7
Cafeteria                  Customer                   2.5
Bar or lounge (no meals)   Customer                   4.5
                                                     
Entertainment              Unit                       Design Flow (gallons/day/
Establishments                                        unit)
Drive-in theater           Car stall                  5
Theater/auditorium         Seat                       4.5
Bowling alley              Alley                      185
Country club               Member (no meals)          22
                          Member (with meals and     118
                           showers)
                          Member (resident)          86
Fairground and other       Visitor                    1.5
similar gatherings
Stadium                    Seat                       5
Dance hall                 Person                     6
Health club/gym            Member                     35
                                                     
Outdoor Recreation and     Unit                       Design Flow (gallons/day/
Related Lodging Facilities                            unit)
Campground                 Person with hook-up        36
                          Site with hook-up          100
                          Site without hook-up, with 62
                           central bath
                          Site to be served by dump  14.5
                           station
Permanent Manufactured     Mobile Home                225
home
Camp, day without meals    Person                     20
Camp, day, and night with  Person                     45
meals
Resort/lodge hotel         Person                     62
Cabin, resort              Person                     50
Retail resort store        Customer                   4
Park or swimming pool      Guest                      10
Visitor center             Visitor                    13
                                                     
Transportation             Unit                       Design Flow (gallons/day/
                                                      unit)
Gas station/convenience    Customer                   3.5
store
Service station*           Customer                   11
                          Service bay                50
                          Toilet                     250
                          Square foot                0.25
Car wash* (does not        Square foot                5
include car wash water)
Airport, bus station, rail Passenger                  5
depot
                          Square foot                5
                          Restroom                   565
                                                     
Institutional              Unit                       Design Flow (gallons/day/
                                                      unit)
Hospital*                  Bed                        220
Mental health hospital*    Bed                        147
Prison or jail             Inmate                     140
Nursing home, other adult  Resident                   125
congregate living
Other public institution   Person                     105
School (no gym, no         Student                    14
cafeteria, and no showers)
School (with cafeteria, no Student                    18
gym, and no showers)
School (with cafeteria,    Student                    27.5
gym, and showers)
School (boarding)          Student                    95
Church                     Seat                       4
                          Add for each meal prepared
Assembly hall              Seat                       4
                                                     
Miscellaneous              Unit                       Design Flow (gallons/day/
                                                      unit)
Public lavatory            User                       5
Public shower              Shower taken               11
* Waste other than Sewage is only allowed to be discharged into the system if
the waste is suitable to be discharged to groundwater.
 
   (H)   Unless otherwise noted in Table II, the flow values do not include
flows generated by employees. A flow value of 15 gallons per employee per eight
hour shift must be added to the flow amount for determining the design flow for
Other Establishments.
   (I)   Design flow determination for establishments not listed in Table II
shall be determined by the base available information and approved by the
Department or by the local unit of government.
   (J)   The measured flow of Sewage for existing Other Establishments may be
used to modify estimated flow values determined in this part if the length and
frequency of the measured flow accurately represents the annual average water
use, along with the peak weekly and daily water use.
   (K)   The design flow for MSTS must also include 200 gallons of infiltration
and inflow per inch of collection pipe diameter per mile per day with a minimum
pipe diameter of two inches to be used for the calculation. Flow values are
allowed to be further increased if the system employs treatment devices that
are exposed to atmospheric conditions that will infiltrate precipitation. Flow
estimates as calculated in this Chapter shall not be relied upon for the design
of collection systems.
   (L)   If concentrations of Biochemical Oxygen Demand, total suspended
solids, and oil and grease from the Sewage are expected to be higher than 175
mg/L, 65 mg/L, or 25 mg/L, respectively, an estimated or measured average
concentration must be determined and be acceptable to the Department or local
unit of government. System design must account for concentrations of these
constituents so as to not cause internal system malfunction, such as, but not
limited to, clogging of pipes, orifices, treatment devices, or media.
§ 52.13 SEWAGE TANKS.
   (A)   Sewage tanks serving SSTS must meet or exceed the applicable
requirements of this section unless otherwise approved by a Minnesota licensed
professional engineer and approved by the Department or the local unit of
government.
   (B)   Tanks, fittings, risers, and apertures must:
      (1)   Be capable of supporting long-term vertical loads for the
conditions in which the tank will be placed. These loads include, but are not
limited to, saturated soil load, based on 130 pounds per cubic foot.
      (2)   Be capable of withstanding a lateral load for the conditions the
tank will be placed.
      (3)   With proper maintenance and venting, not be subject to failure due
to corrosion and degradation from Sewage or Sewage gases, including risers and
maintenance hole covers.
      (4)   Be structurally capable of withstanding exposure and stresses from
freezing conditions.
   (C)   Poured in place concrete tanks must be designed to meet each
requirement in division (B) of this section and be designed by a Minnesota
licensed professional engineer.
   (D)   Septic tanks must:
      (1)   Have a liquid depth of at least 30 inches. Any liquid depth that is
greater than 84 inches must not be used when calculating the Septic Tank Liquid
Capacity.
      (2)   Have a minimum of six feet between the inlet and outlet of the
tank, rather than between compartments, or have a minimum of six feet from the
inlet of the first tank to the outlet of the last tank in series.
      (3)   If Site conditions warrant, the inlet and outlet are allowed to be
located on walls that are not opposite each other along axis of the maximum
dimension; however, the requirements of division (D)(2) of this section must be
met.
      (4)   Have an inlet Invert at least two inches above the outlet Invert.
      (5)   Have a reserve or storage space between the liquid surface and the
top of the inlet and outlet Baffles of not less than eight inches or 100
gallons, whichever is greater.
   (E)   For Dwellings, there shall be two Septic Tanks in series with the
Liquid Capacity based on the number of Bedrooms in the Dwelling; such tanks
shall be as large as the capacities in Table III. The only exception to this
requirement is for the upgrade of an existing compliant system if the primary
tank capacity is met and there is no Garbage disposal or Sewage pump. System
Replacement shall require two tanks in series.
Table III - Minimum Septic Tank Capacity
Number of Bedrooms Tank 1 Tank 2
Number of Bedrooms                  Tank 1 Tank 2
Two or less                         1,000  500
Three                               1,000  1,000
Four to five                        1,500  1,000
Six to seven                        2,000  1,000
Eight to nine                       2,500  1,250
                                    Septic tank shall be sized as an MSTS with
Ten or more                         the second tank in series being at least
                                    50% of the capacity of the first tank
Multiple family Dwelling containing Size shall be the sum of the individual
two or more units                   Dwelling unit requirements.
 
   (F)   An Effluent Screen with an alarm must be installed on the outlet of
the last tank in series.
   (G)   Septic tanks must be connected in series. Each tank or compartment
must contain at least 25% of the required total Liquid Capacity. The first tank
must be equal to or larger than any subsequent tank in the series.
   (H)   Septic tank Liquid Capacity prior to other treatment devices must
accord with the manufacturer's requirements, accepted engineering principles,
or as identified in the product registration recommended standards and
criteria.
   (I)   If Septic Tanks are compartmentalized, divisions (I)(1) to (5) of this
section apply:
      (1)   When Septic Tanks are divided into compartments, the volume of the
first compartment must be equal to or larger than any succeeding compartments.
Each compartment must contain at least 25% of the total required Liquid
Capacity and have an inside horizontal dimension of at least 24 inches.
      (2)   Flow between compartments can be achieved by an unbaffled transfer
hole with a minimum size of 50 square inches located in the clarified liquid
zone or a minimum of 12-square inch transfer hole located above the clarified
liquid zone that is Baffled according to division (K) of this section. The
final compartment of a tank that employs a transfer hole in the clarified zone
shall not be used as a Pump Tank.
      (3)   Septic tanks must have at least a two-inch drop between the Invert
of the inlet to the Invert of the outlet. No liquid level drop is required
between two compartments.
      (4)   Adequate venting must be provided between compartments by Baffles
or by an opening of at least 12 square inches near the top of the compartment
wall.
      (5)   All compartmental walls must be designed to withstand the weight of
the effluent against an empty compartment.
   (J)   All Septic Tanks must be Baffled according to divisions (J)(1) to (7)
of this section. Effluent screens are allowed to be substituted for outlet
Baffles.
      (1)   Baffles must be installed at each inlet and outlet of Septic Tanks.
Outlet Baffles are required on compartment walls if the transfer hole is at the
liquid level.
      (2)   Baffles must be resistant to corrosion or decay. Inlet Baffles must
not restrict the movement of solids.
      (3)   Baffles must be integrally cast with the tank or affixed at the top
and bottom with connectors that are not subject to corrosion or decay. Baffles
for fiberglass reinforced polyester tanks are allowed to be either resin bonded
or secured with suitable structural adhesive. Sanitary tees used as Baffles
must be affixed to the inlet or outlet pipes with a permanent waterproof
adhesive.
      (4)   The inlet Baffle must extend at least six inches, but not more than
20% of the total liquid depth, below the liquid surface and at least six inches
above the liquid surface.
      (5)   The outlet Baffle and any Baffles between compartments must extend
below the liquid surface a distance equal to 40% of the liquid depth, except
that the penetration of the indicated Baffles or sanitary tees for horizontal
cylindrical tanks must be 35% of the total liquid depth. They must also extend
above the liquid surface as required in division (J)(4) of this section.
      (6)   There must be at least one inch between the underside of the top of
the tank and the highest point of the inlet and outlet Baffles.
      (7)   The nearest point on the inlet Baffles other than sanitary tees
must be no less than six inches and no more than 12 inches from the end of the
inlet pipe. The nearest point on the outlet Baffle, other than sanitary tees,
must not be closer than 6 inches and no more than 12 inches from the beginning
of the outlet pipe of the Baffle. Sanitary tees used as inlet or outlet Baffles
must be at least four inches in diameter.
   (K)   Septic tanks shall have a minimum of two maintenance holes with a
minimum diameter of 20 inches (least dimension). One maintenance hole must be
over the outlet device (Baffles or screen). Another maintenance hole must be
either above the inlet device, or near the center of the tank, and facilitate
pumping without interference. Enough maintenance holes must be provided so
access can be gained within six feet of all walls for solids removal of each
compartment. Six-inch inspection pipes shall be provided over any Baffles that
do not have access maintenance holes.
   (L)   All maintenance hole risers must extend through the tank cover above
final grade.
   (M)   Covers for maintenance holes must:
      (1)   Be secured by being locked, being bolted, or screwed, having a
weight of at least 95 pounds, or other methods approved by the Department or
local unit of government. Covers shall also be leak resistant; and be designed
so the cover cannot be slid or flipped, which could allow unauthorized access
to the tank.
      (2)   Have a written and graphic label warning of the hazardous
conditions inside the tank.
      (3)   Be capable of withstanding a load that the cover is anticipated to
receive.
      (4)   Be made of a material suitable for outdoor use and resistant to
ultraviolet degradation.
   (N)   A secondary method to control unauthorized access must be provided.
   (O)   All precast reinforced concrete Sewage tanks must be constructed to
meet the requirements of this chapter. Information on best practices for tank
construction is found in the National Precast Concrete Association's best
practices manual, Precast Concrete On-Site Wastewater Tanks (2005). This manual
is incorporated by reference, is available through the Minitex interlibrary
loan system, and is not subject to frequent change. If a conflict exists
between the manual and this chapter, this chapter applies.
   (P)   All fiberglass-reinforced polyester and polyethylene tanks must be
constructed to meet the requirements of this chapter. Information on best
practices for these tanks is found in the International Association of Plumbing
and Mechanical Officials (IAPMO), Material and Property Standard for
Prefabricated Septic Tanks, Standard PS 1-2006 (2006). This standard is
incorporated by reference, is available through the Minitex interlibrary loan
system, and is not subject to frequent change. If conflicts exist between the
standard and this chapter, this chapter applies.
   (Q)   Precast reinforced concrete tanks must:
      (1)   Have a method to lift the tank for an ultimate load that is four
times the working load.
      (2)   Undergo proper curing to achieve a compressive strength of 4,000
pounds per square inch before transport, placement, or use.
      (3)   Have no pipe penetration points or openings in the exterior walls
or tank bottom below the tank liquid level, unless designed for a specific
operational purpose and approved by the Department or local unit of government.
   (R)   Fiberglass-reinforced polyester or polyethylene tanks must be
protected against deterioration during storage.
   (S)   Location and installation of tanks:
      (1)   Sewage tanks must not be placed in areas that prohibit the removal
of solids and liquids from the tank according to § 52.22.
      (2)   Sewage tanks must be set back as specified in Table V in §
52.16.
      (3)   The top of Sewage tanks must not be buried deeper than four feet
from final grade for new Dwellings, or the tank manufacturer's maximum designed
depth for the tank. The minimum depth of soil cover over the insulation on the
top of the tank is six inches.
      (4)   Sewage tanks must not be placed in Floodways, drainageways, or
swales. Upslope drainage must be diverted away from the location of all tanks.
A tank's final cover must be crowned or Sloped to shed surface water.
      (5)   Sewage tanks must not be placed in areas subject to vehicular
traffic unless engineered for the anticipated load.
      (6)   Sewage tanks must be placed on firm and evenly compacted soil and
with the soil level in all directions. The bottom shall be excavated in a
manner so the vertical load is borne by the tank walls and not the tank bottom.
If the bottom of the tank excavation contains rocks, bedding material must be
used according to manufacturer's instructions. The soil beneath the tank must
be capable of bearing the weight of the tank and its contents.
      (7)   Sewage tanks and risers must be installed according to
manufacturer's requirements and in a structurally sound and Watertight fashion.
      (8)   If the top of a Sewage tank is to be less than two feet from final
grade, the lid of the tank must be insulated to an R-value of ten. Maintenance
hole covers must be insulated to an R-value often. All insulating materials
must be resistant to water absorption.
      (9)   Sewage tanks placed below the level of the Periodically Saturated
Soil must employ a method to protect against flotation under periodic saturated
soil conditions when the tank is empty.
      (10)   Connections between the concrete tank and the Building sewer or
Supply Pipe must meet the requirements of American Society for Testing and
Materials, Standard Specification for Resilient Connectors Between Reinforced
Concrete Manhole Structures, Pipes, and Laterals, ASTM C923 (2002), or
equivalent. The standard is incorporated by reference, is available through the
Minitex interlibrary loan system, and is not subject to frequent change.
      (11)   Joints of concrete tanks, concrete tank lids, and concrete risers
must be sealed using a bonding compound that meets American Society for Testing
and Materials, Standard Specification for Joints for Concrete Pipe, Manholes,
and Precast Box Sections Using Preformed Flexible Joint Sealants, ASTM C990
(2003). The standard is incorporated by reference, is available through the
Minitex interlibrary loan system, and is not subject to frequent change.
   (T)   All Septic Tanks must be assessed in accordance with Minn. Rules
Chapter 7080.2010.
   (U)   Tanks must be identified in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Sewage tanks must be marked near the outlet with:
         (a)   The manufacturer's name.
         (b)   The model number.
         (c)   The Liquid Capacity.
         (d)   The date of manufacture.
         (e)   The maximum depth of burial.
      (2)   The tank manufacturer or manufacturer's agent shall provide the
information in division (T) of this section to the installer in writing.
      (3)   The tank inlet or outlet must be clearly marked.
      (4)   The installer shall submit the information in division (T) of this
section with the as-built drawing.
   (V)   Sewage tanks must meet the requirements in Minn. Rules §§ 7080.1910 to
7080.20202 by February 4, 2011. Tanks produced and installed prior to February
4,2011 must meet the requirements of Minn. Rules 2005, § 7080.0130.
   (W)   All holding or treatment tanks or vessels, including lined vessels and
grease interceptors serving MSTS, must conform to the applicable requirements
of this section, except as modified in division (W) through (AA) of this
section, or as designed by a professional engineer and approved by the
Department or local unit of government.
   (X)   Septic tank capacity for MSTS or Other Establishments shall be
determined by:
      (1)   Total Septic Tank Liquid Capacity for a common tank serving
multiple Dwellings under gravity flow to the common tank is determined by
multiplying the design flow by 3.0.
      (2)   Total Septic Tank Liquid Capacity for a common tank serving
multiple Dwellings under pressure flow to the common tank is determined by
multiplying the design flow by 4.0.
      (3)   Common multiple Septic Tanks must be connected in series.
Individual tanks connected in series or any compartment of a tank must have a
capacity of more than one-fourth of the required to total Liquid Capacity.
      (4)   For MSTS that have individual Septic Tanks at each Dwelling, the
individual tanks must meet the requirements of § 52.13(E).
      (5)   Total Septic Tank Liquid Capacity prior to other treatment devices
shall be according to manufacturer's requirements or accepted standards.
      (6)   Holding tanks serving Other Establishments must provide storage of
at least five times the design flow.
      (7)   Effluent screens must be used on the outlet Baffle on the final
Septic Tank or pressure filters must be used in the Pump Tank if common tanks
are employed in series. Alarms must be employed on tanks equipped with Effluent
Screens. Lint filters are recommended if the Sewage contains laundry waste.
   (Y)   For common Septic Tanks, the liquid depth of Septic Tanks to determine
Liquid Capacity must be no greater than 84 inches. The length-to-width ratio
and the length-to-depth ratio must facilitate settling of solids.
   (Z)   For common Septic Tanks, the space in the tank between the liquid
surface and the top of the inlet and outlet Baffles must not be less than 20
percent of the total required Liquid Capacity.
   (AA)   All tanks used for MSTS must be tested for Watertightness in
accordance with Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.2010, Subp. (3). The test shall be
conducted to include the Watertightness of all connections and risers.
   (BB)   Liners used as Watertight barriers for treatment devices must be
designed and constructed according to liner requirements developed by the
Commissioner of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency. If conflicts exist
between this chapter and those requirements, this chapter applies. Compacted
soil liners must not be used as Watertight barriers for treatment devices.
Liners must be tested and must hold water without loss for 24 hours after being
filled to the top of the liner.
   (CC)   A commercial or institutional food preparation facility such as, but
not limited to, a restaurant, cafeteria, or institutional kitchen, served by a
system regulated under this chapter, the system design for which was submitted
to the Department or local unit of government after the effective date of this
chapter, shall install an external grease interceptor, unless other grease
control measures are taken and approved by the Department or local unit of
government.
§ 52.14 DISTRIBUTION OF EFFLUENT.
   (A)   Distribution of effluent for SSTS must meet or exceed the requirements
of this section and Minn. Rules 7080.20503.
   (B)   The Supply Pipe extending from the Septic Tank to the undisturbed soil
beyond the tank excavation must meet the strength requirements of American
Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), Schedule 40 Pipe, contained in
Standard Specifications for Poly(Vinyl Chloride)(PVC) Plastic Pipe, Schedule
40,80,120, ASTM D1785 (2006). The schedule is incorporated by reference, is
available through the Minitex interlibrary loan system, and is not subject to
frequent change.
   (C)   Supply pipes must:
      (1)   Be made from materials resistant to breakdown from Sewage and soil.
      (2)   Be Watertight, including all joints.
      (3)   Be durable throughout the design life.
      (4)   Not deflect, buckle, crush, or longitudinally bend.
      (5)   Be resistant to pressures, fatigue, and strain for the application.
      (6)   Be installed according to American Society for Testing and
Materials, Standard Practice for Underground Installation of Thermoplastic Pipe
for Sewers and Other Gravity-Flow Applications, ASTM D2321 (2005). The standard
is incorporated by reference, is available through the Minitex interlibrary
loan system, and is not subject to frequent change.
      (7)   Be designed, installed, and protected to minimize the danger of
freezing in the pipe.
      (8)   Not be closer than six inches from final grade. Pipes susceptible
to freezing shall be insulated.
      (9)   Be Setback from the water supply wells and water service pipes
according to Minn. Rules Chapters 4715 and 4725.
   (D)   Gravity Supply Pipes is 1% (1/8-inch per linear foot). There is no
maximum Slope. Pipe restraints must be used for Slopes greater than 20% or
where fluid velocities in the pipe exceed 15 feet per second. For pressure
systems, a minimum Slope of one percent for drainback or other frost protection
measures must be employed.
   (E)   Access to each Supply Pipe must be provided for cleanout. The access
point must be accessible from final grade.
   (F)   Gravity distribution.
      (1)   Serial distribution must be used to distribute effluent to
individual Trenches in a soil treatment and dispersal system. If the necessary
elevation differences between Trenches for Serial Distribution cannot be
achieved by natural topography or by varying the excavation depths, parallel
distribution can be used. Serial distribution must not create a pressure head
on Trenches at lower elevations.
      (2)   If Drop Boxes are used for Serial Distribution, divisions (F)(2)(a)
to (f) of this section apply.
         (a)   The Drop Box must be Watertight and constructed of durable
materials not subject to corrosion or decay.
         (b)   The Invert of the inlet Supply Pipe must be at least one inch
higher than the Invert of the outlet Supply Pipe to the next Drop Box.
         (c)   The Invert of the outlet Supply Pipe to the next Drop Box must
be no greater than two inches higher than the crown of the distribution pipe
serving the Trench in which the box is located.
         (d)   When Sewage tank effluent is delivered to the Drop Box by a
pump, the pump discharge must be directed against a wall or side of the box on
which there is no outlet or directed against a deflection wall, Baffle, or
other energy dissipater. The discharge rate into the Drop Box must not result
in surfacing of Sewage from the Drop Box. The Supply Pipe must drain after the
pump shuts off.
         (e)   The Drop Box must be covered by a minimum of six inches of soil.
If the top of the box is deeper than six inches, access must be provided above,
at, or within six inches of finished grade.
         (f)   The Drop Box must be placed on firm and settled soil.
      (3)   If Valve Boxes are used, all requirements in division (F)(2) of
this section apply.
      (4)   Distribution boxes must meet the standards in items (F)(4)(a) to
(f).
         (a)   The box must be Watertight and constructed of durable materials
not subject to corrosion or decay.
         (b)   The Distribution Box must be covered by a minimum of six inches
of soil. If the top of the box is deeper than six inches, access must be
provided above, at, or within six inches of the finished grade.
         (c)   The Inverts of all outlets must be set and maintained at the
same elevation.
         (d)   The inlet Invert must be either at least one inch above the
outlet Invert or Sloped such that an equivalent elevation above the outlet
Invert is obtained within the last eight feet of the inlet Pipe.
         (e)   Each Trench line must be connected separately to the
Distribution Box and must not be subdivided. Distribution boxes must not be
connected to one another if each box has Distribution Pipes.
         (f)   When Sewage tank effluent is delivered by pump, a Baffle wall
must be installed in the Distribution Box or the pump discharge must be
directed against a wall, Baffle, side of the box on which there is no outlet,
or directed against a deflection wall, Baffle, or other energy dissipater. The
Baffle must be secured to the box and extend at least one inch above the crown
of the inlet pipe. The discharge rate into the Drop Box must not result in
surfacing of Sewage from the Drop Box. Pressure must not build up in the box
during pump discharge.
      (5)   Nonpressurized Distribution Pipes must meet the requirements of
items (1) to (4) below and divisions (C)(1), and (3) to (5) of this section.
      (6)   Distribution pipes used for gravity distribution must be at least
four inches in diameter.
      (7)   Distribution pipes used for gravity distribution must have at least
one row of holes of no less than one-half inch in diameter spaced no more than
40 inches apart.
      (8)   Distribution pipes for gravity distribution must be laid level or
on a uniform Slope oriented away from the Distribution Device of no more than
four inches per 100 feet.
      (9)   Distribution pipes for gravity distribution in Seepage Beds must be
uniformly spaced no more than five feet apart and not more than 30 inches from
the side walls of the Seepage Bed.
   (G)   Pressure distribution.
      (1)   Pressure distribution must pressurize the entire distribution
system and must be used for:
         (a)   Mound systems.
         (b)   At-grade systems.
         (c)   All Trenches and Seepage Beds in accordance with Minn. Rules
Chapter 70805.
         (d)   All Seepage Beds with a width greater than 12 feet.
         (e)   New construction or Replacement systems receiving treatment
Level A or Level B effluent, as determined in Minn. Rules 7083.4030, Table III.
         (f)   All systems where the distribution network is installed above
the original grade.
         (g)   All MSTS.
      (2)   Pressurized Distribution Pipes must conform to the requirements of
divisions (C)(1) and (C)(3) to (5) of this section.
      (3)   Pressure Distribution Pipes and associated fittings must be
properly joined together. The pipe and connections must be able to withstand a
pressure of at least 40 pounds per square inch.
      (4)   The distribution network must be designed so there is less than a
ten percent variance in flow for all perforations.
      (5)   Perforations must be no smaller than 1/8-inch diameter and no
larger than 1/4-inch diameter. The number of perforations, perforation spacing,
and pipe size for Pressure Distribution must be in accordance with Table IV
below. The friction loss in any individual perforated lateral must not exceed
20 percent of the average pressure head on the perforations.
Table IV - Maximum Number of Perforations Per Lateral
1/4-Inch Holes
Perforation Spacing Pipe Diameter (Inches)
                   1                      1 1/4 1 1/2 2  3
2.0                 10                     13    18    30 60
2.5                 8                      12    16    28 54
3.0                 8                      12    16    25 52
7/32-Inch Holes
Perforation Spacing Pipe Diameter (Inches)
                   1                      1 1/4 1 1/2 2  3
2.0                 11                     16    21    34 68
2.5                 10                     14    20    32 64
3.0                 9                      14    19    30 60
3/16-Inch Holes
Perforation Spacing Pipe Diameter (Inches)
                   1                      1 1/4 1 1/2 2  3
2.0                 12                     18    26    46 87
2.5                 12                     17    24    40 80
3.0                 12                     16    22    37 75
1/18-Inch Holes
Perforation Spacing Pipe Diameter (Inches)
                   1                      1 1/4 1 1/2 2  3
2.0                 21                     33    44    74 149
2.5                 20                     30    41    69 135
3.0                 20                     29    38    64 128
 
      (6)   Perforation holes must be drilled straight into the pipe and not at
an angle. Pressurized distribution laterals must be installed level.
Perforation holes must be free of burrs. Holes must be spaced no more than
three feet apart. A method to introduce air into the pipe after dosing must be
provided. The pipes must completely drain after the pump turns off.
      (7)   Pressure distribution laterals must be spaced no further than 36
inches apart in Seepage Beds and mound absorption beds, and no further than 24
inches from the outside edge of the bed.
      (8)   Pressure distribution laterals must be connected to a header or
manifold pipe that is of a diameter such that the friction loss in the header
or manifold will be no greater than five percent of the average head at the
perforations. The header of manifold pipe must be connected to the Supply Pipe
from the pump.
      (9)   Perforated laterals must not be installed closer than 12 inches
from the edges of the absorption bed and perforated laterals must terminate no
closer than 12 inches from the ends of the absorption bed.
      (10)   Pressure distribution cleanouts must be provided to check the
system for proper operation and cleaning of plugged perforations. Cleanouts
must be accessible from final grade.
      (11)   Existing systems with gravity distribution which are retrofitted
with an advanced treatment device meeting treatment level A or B in Minnesota
Rules 7083.4030, must monitor the system to determine the presence of Even
Distribution over the Absorption Area. If Even Distribution is not occurring,
Pressure Distribution must be employed.
   (H)   For MSTS, distribution of effluent into a soil treatment and dispersal
area must comply with all parts of this section.
   (I)   MSTS must be designed by a registered professional engineer and
approved by the Department or local unit of government.
   (J)   MSTS must employ Pressure Distribution.
   (K)   The distribution system for MSTS must be designed to dose and rest
zones in accordance with operational requirements.
§ 52.15 DOSING OF EFFLUENT.
   (A)   When pumping or dosing is necessary, it must comply with this section.
   (B)   Pump tanks shall meet or exceed the requirements of §
52.13(B), §§
52.13(K) through (T). All dosing chambers must be vented. Pump tanks shall have
a maintenance hole with a minimum diameter of 20 inches (least dimension) which
allows access and removal of any plumbing or other device. These maintenance
holes shall meet or exceed the requirements of §
52.13(L) and (M) of this chapter.
   (C)   The pump, pump controls, and pump discharge line must be installed to
allow access for servicing or Replacement without entering the Pump Tank.
   (D)   The Pump Tank must either include:
      (1)   An alternating two-pump system; or
      (2)   Have a minimum total capacity of:
         (a)   Five hundred (500) gallons for design flows of 600 gallons per
day or less; or
         (b)   One hundred percent (100%) of the design flow for design flow
values of greater than 600 gallons per day.
      (3)   MSTS and Other Establishments must include an alternating two-pump
system and have a minimum capacity of 50% of the design flow.
   (E)   An SSTS with a pump must employ an Alarm Device to warn of failure.
   (F)   The inlet of pumps must be elevated at least four inches from the
bottom of the Pump Tank or protected in some other manner to prevent the pump
from drawing excessive settled solids.
   (G)   Electrical installations must comply with applicable laws and
ordinances including the most current codes, rules, and regulations of public
authorities having jurisdiction and with Minn. Rule 1315.0200, which
incorporates the National Electrical Code.
   (H)   If a pump is used to lift effluent into a gravity distribution system,
the following apply:
      (1)   The pump must discharge at least ten gallons per minute but no more
than 45 gallons per minute.
      (2)   The pump must be constructed and fitted with sound, durable, and
corrosion-resistant materials.
      (3)   The pump must have sufficient dynamic head for both the elevation
difference and friction loss.
   (I)   Pumps used for Pressure Distribution must meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   Pumps must be constructed and fitted with sound, durable, and
corrosion-resistant materials.
      (2)   The pump discharge capacity must be based on the perforation
discharges for a minimum average head of:
         (a) 1.0 foot for 1/4-inch and 3/16-inch perforations for Dwellings;
         (b) 2.0 feet for 1/8-inch perforations for Dwellings.
         (c) 2.0 feet for W-inch and 3/16-inch perforations for MSTS and Other
Establishments; and
         (d) 5.0 feet for 1/8-inch perforations for MSTS and Other
Establishments.
      (3)   Perforation discharge is determined by the following formula:
         Q = 19.65 cd2h1/2
         Where: Q = Discharge in Gallons Per Minute (GPM)
         c = 0.6- = coefficient of discharge
         d = perforation diameter in inches
         h = head in feet
   (J)   The pump discharge head must be at least five feet greater than the
head required to overcome pipe friction losses and the elevation difference
between the pump and the Distribution Device.
   (K)   The quantity of effluent delivered for each pump cycle must be no
greater than 25% of the design flow and at least five times the volume of the
Distribution Pipes plus one volume of the Supply Pipe.
§ 52.16 TREATMENT AND DISPERSAL.
   (A)   Treatment and dispersal of all Sewage for New Construction or
Replacement SSTS must in compliance with this Section and §§
52.17 to
52.21.
   (B)   All New Construction or Replacement SSTS must be designed to meet or
exceed the following provisions:
      (1)   All treatment and dispersal methods must be designed to conform to
all applicable federal, state, and local regulations.
      (2)   Treatment and dispersal processes must prevent Sewage or Sewage
effluent contact with humans, insects, or vermin.
      (3)   Treatment and dispersal of Sewage or Sewage effluent must be in a
safe manner that adequately protects from physical injury or harm.
      (4)   An unsaturated zone in the soil must be maintained between the
bottom of the soil treatment and dispersal system and the Periodically
Saturated Soil or Bedrock during loading of effluent.
      (5)   Soil treatment and dispersal systems must not be designed in
Floodways. Soil treatment and dispersal systems installed in Flood Fringes must
meet the requirements of § 52.18(C). All soil treatment systems located in
areas subject to excessive run-on must have a diversion constructed upslope
from the system.
      (6)   SSTS components must be Setback in accordance with Table V.
      (7)   No component of an SSTS is allowed to be located under or within
the structure or other impermeable surface.
      (8)   Flow measurement must be employed for all single family Dwellings
and Other Establishments with a Pump Tank, all single family Dwellings with a
Type III, IV, V systems, and all multi-family Dwellings.
Table V - Minimum Setback Distances (Feet)
Feature Sewage Tank Soil Treatment and Dispersal Area
Feature                           Sewage Tank Soil Treatment and Dispersal Area
Water supply wells less than 50
feet deep and not encountering at 50          100
least 10 feet of impervious
material
Any other water supply well or    50          50
buried suction pipe
Buried pipe distributing water    10          10
under pressure
Occupied Buildings and Buildings  10          20
with basements or crawl spaces
Non-occupied structures           5           10
Property lines                    10          10
Above ground and in-ground        10          10
swimming pools
The Ordinary High Water Mark of:
Natural environment lakes and     150         150
streams
Recreational development lakes    75          75
and streams
General development lakes and     75          75
streams
All unclassified waters           75          75
St. Croix River-rural districts   150         150
St. Croix River-urban districts   100         100
Blufflines:
St. Croix River blufflines        40          40
Shoreland blufflines              20          20
 
   (C)   The following items are required for specific designs as determined in
§§
52.17 to
52.21.
      (1)   Employ components registered under Minn. Rules 7083.4070 and
7083.4080 that are installed, used, and operated according to the conditions
placed on the registration.
      (2)   Employee structural components and joint sealants that meet or
exceed the system's expected design life.
      (3)   For acceptable treatment of Septic Tank effluent by soil, the soil
treatment and dispersal systems must meet the following requirements:
         (a)   A minimum three-foot vertical soil treatment and dispersal zone
shall be designed below the distribution media that meets the following
criteria:
            1. The zone must be above the Periodically Saturated Soil and
Bedrock. The zone must be continuous and not be interrupted by seasonal zones
of saturation.
            2. Any soil layers with a texture group of 1 in Table IX in Minn.
Rules 7080.2150 must not be credited as part of the necessary three-foot zone.
            3. The entire treatment zone depth must be within seven feet from
final grade.
         (b)   The distribution system or media must not place a hydraulic head
greater than 30 inches above the bottom of the Absorption Area.
      (4)   The system's Absorption Area must be in Original Soil.
      (5)   The system's Absorption Area must be sized according to the Table
IX-Loading Rate for Determining Bottom Absorption Area for Trenches and Seepage
Beds for Effluent Treatment Level C and Absorption Ratios for Determining Mound
Absorption Areas Using Detailed Soil Descriptions as found in Minn. Rules
Chapter 7080.21501, or by using Table VI if not using detailed soil
descriptions. Soils with a loading rate less than 0.45 gallons per day per
square foot cannot be used in a Type I or Type II system for New Construction.
Table VI
Loading Rates for Determining Bottom Absorption Area for Trenches and Seepage
Beds for Effluent Treatment
Level C and Absorption Ratios for Determining Mound Absorption Areas Using
Percolation Test
Percolation Rate (Minutes per Inch) Soil Loading Rate Mound Absorption Ratio
                                    (gpd/ft2)
Percolation Rate (Minutes per Inch) Soil Loading Rate Mound Absorption Ratio
                                    (gpd/ft2)
<0.1*                               -                 -
0.1-5*                              1.20              1
0.1-5
(Soil Texture Group 3)              0.6               2
6-15                                0.78              1.3
16-30                               0.6               2
31-45                               0.5               2.4
46-60                               0.45              2.6
>60**                               0.24              5.0
 
* See § 52.18(B) for a system with this type of soil (Type II, Rapidly
Permeable Soils Systems)
** Soil with too high a percentage of clay for installation of a Type I, or
Type II system. Systems in soils with this Percolation Rate must be a Type III,
Type IV, or Type V system.
      (6)   If drainfield rock medium is employed, a durable, nonwoven
geotextile fabric must be used to cover the distribution rock medium. The
fabric must be of sufficient strength to undergo installation without rupture.
The fabric must permit passage of water without passage of overlying soil
material into the rock medium.
      (7)   All excavation into the Absorption Area, or surface preparation of
the upper 12 inches of the Absorption Area, must be in a manner to expose the
Original Soil structure in an unsmeared and uncompacted condition. Excavation
is only allowed when the soil moisture content is at or less than the Plastic
Limit and is not frozen or freezing,
      (8)   Excavation equipment or other vehicles must not be driven on the
excavated or prepared Absorption Area. Foot traffic on these areas must be
minimized and not cause compaction. The exposed areas must be immediately
covered with the media or designed coverage materials. If the areas are exposed
to direct rainfall, they must be allowed to dry and must be re-prepared
according to § 52.16(C)(7).
      (9)   A minimum of six inches of Topsoil borrow shall be placed over the
system.
      (10)   A close-growing, vigorous vegetative cover must be established
over the soil treatment and dispersal system and other vegetatively disturbed
areas. The sodding, seeding, or vegetation establishment shall begin
immediately after the placement of the Topsoil borrow. The soil treatment and
dispersal system must be protected from erosion and excessive frost until a
vegetative cover is established. The vegetative cover established must not
interfere with the hydraulic performance of the system and shall provide
adequate frost and erosion protection. Trees, shrubs, deep-rooted plants, or
hydrophytic plants must not be planted on the system.
   (D)   At a minimum, systems designed under this Chapter with a design flow
of greater than 2,500 gallons per day, which impact water quality of an
aquifer, as defined in Minn. Rules 4725.0100, subpart 21, must employ best,
management practices for nitrogen reduction developed by the Commissioner to
mitigate water quality impacts to groundwater.
   (E)   Final treatment and dispersal for MSTS shall meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   Final treatment and dispersal must be according to applicable
design requirements of this chapter, except as modified in this section. Code
of Federal Regulations, Title 40, Parts 144 and 146, prescribe additional
design regulations applicable to certain systems. At a minimum, flow amounts to
be used for the purpose of this section must be derived from Table II in §
52.12.
      (2)   MSTS must meet all Setbacks in Table V.
      (3)   The Site proposed to support the soil treatment and dispersal
system must:
         (a)   Have the upper 18 inches of the Absorption Area:
            (1). Be Original Soil.
            (2). Have a soil loading rate of greater than zero as listed in
Table IX in Minn. Rules 7080.21501 or Table VI in §
52.16(C).
            (3). Be above the Periodically Saturated Soil or Bedrock.
         (b)   Meet the area size requirements in division (E)(5) of this
section and Setbacks in Table V.
         (c)   Not be a wetland or Floodway.
         (d)   Not be in an area in which surface runoff from precipitation
will concentrate (concave hillslope).
         (e)   Allow the system to be placed on contour.
      (4)   Inspection pipes must be located to adequately assess the hydraulic
performance of the entire Soil Dispersal System.
      (5)   Effluent loading rates to the soil shall be no greater than loading
rates prescribed in:
         (a)   Table IX in Minn. Rules 7080.21501, or Table VI in division (C)
of this section, if the Absorption Area receives treatment level C effluent as
defined in Minn. Rules 7083.4030.
         (b)   Table XII in Minn. Rules 7080.23504, or Table X in § 52.20(E),
if the Absorption Area receives treatment level A or B effluent in part Minn.
Rules 7083.4030.
         (c)   Section
52.21.
      (6)   If the Absorption Area receives effluent as described in § 52.16(E)
(5)(a), the Absorption Area shall be increased by 50% of the amount derived in
§
52.16(E)(5)(a), and zoned for dosing and resting.
      (7)   The system geometry and lawn area sizing shall be sized to prevent
Groundwater Mounding from violating the unsaturated zone beneath the soil
system according to §
52.16(E)(8) for proper hydraulic functioning, and for concentration reduction
of nitrogen and phosphorus, if applicable.
      (8)   Additional set-aside land area of 100% of the size determined in §
52.16(E)(7) is required for systems whose Absorption Area receives effluent
meeting treatment level A or B in part Minn. Rules 7083.4030 or designed in
accordance with §
52.21. Additional land area of 5% of the size determined in §
52.16(E)(1) is required for systems whose Absorption Area receives treatment
level C in part Minn. Rules 7083.4030. The reserve land area must be identified
and protected for future use if necessary. Replacement MSTS proposed on Sites
that cannot meet this requirement are allowed to be exempted by the Department
or local unit of government.
      (9)   For treatment of effluent by soil to meet the performance criteria
in §
52.09(C) of this chapter the soil treatment and dispersal systems must meet the
requirements below:
         (a)   For soil treatment and dispersal systems that receive treatment
level C effluent as describe in Minn. Rules 7083.4030, the soil treatment zone
requirements must meet or exceed the requirements of §
52.16(C)(3). The required three-foot Vertical Separation must be maintained
during operation after accounting for Groundwater Mounding.
         (b)   For soil treatment and dispersal systems that receive treatment
level A or B effluent as described in Minn. Rules 7083.4030, the soil treatment
requirements must meet or exceed the following requirements:
            1. A minimum vertical depth of the soil treatment and dispersal
zone below the distribution media shall be determined according to Table IX in
§
52.20. with a minimum Vertical Separation of two feet. This zone shall meet the
following criteria:
               a. The zone must be above the Periodically Saturated Soil and
Bedrock. The zone must be continuous and not be interrupted by seasonal zones
of saturation.
               b. Any soil layers with a texture group of 1 in Table IX in
Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.21501 must not be credited as part of the necessary
treatment zone.
               c. The entire treatment zone depth must be within seven feet
from final grad
            2. The distribution system or media must not place a hydraulic head
greater than 30 inches above the bottom of the Absorption Area.
            3. The system's Absorption Area must be Original Soil.
            4. The systems Absorption Area must be sized according to §
52.16(E)(5).
         (c)   The minimum Vertical Separation can be determined by the method
described in §
52.21 to meet provisions of §
52.04(I)(3).
         (d)   An observation well to measure the height of the Periodically
Saturated Soil beneath the operating system must be installed and monitored
according to the operating Permit.
      (10)   MSTS systems must employ nitrogen mitigation methods to achieve
compliance with §
52.09(D), and must be monitored in accordance with §
52.11(D).
      (11)   Phosphorus mitigation methods must be employed to achieve
compliance with §
52.09(E), if natural processes are found inadequate.
      (12)   All information required in this Section shall be submitted for
review and approval by the Department or local unit of government prior to
system construction, including all applicable information delineated on a map.
   (F)   MSTS construction must be according to applicable construction
requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   The design standards for New Construction or Replacement MSTS are
provided to meet many of the public health and environmental outcomes in §
52.04. In some cases, specific design methods must be employed in addition to
the standards provided in this chapter.
   (H)   MSTS must not receive storm water or other sources of clean water.
   (I)   All structural components of the system and sealants must be designed
to operate throughout the system's design life.
   (J)   A flow measure device must be employed on all MSTS.
   (K)   The system must be designed with sufficient access and ports to
monitor the system as applicable.
   (L)   MSTS must employ components registered under parts 7083.4000 to
7083.4110 or have sufficient regulatory oversight in the operating Permit.
   (M)   The MSTS designer must observe critical periods of the system
construction. The designer shall prepare a report of observed construction
activities and submit the report to the Department or local unit of government
prior to the final inspection.
(Ord 2010-162, passed 5-17-2010)
§ 52.17 TYPE I SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Systems designed according to this section are considered Type I
Systems. Systems in soils with a loading rate less than 0.45 gallons per day
per square foot cannot be used in a Type I system for New Construction.
   (B)   Trenches and Seepage Beds.
      (1)   To qualify as a Trench or Seepage Bed system, the system must meet
or exceed the following requirements:
         (a)   Employ flow values in §
52.12.
         (b)   Meet or exceed applicable technical requirements of §§
52.13,
52.14, and
52.15.
         (c)   Meet or exceed the requirements of §
52.16(B) and (C).
         (d)   Meet the requirements of divisions (B) to (O) of this section.
      (2)   Seepage bed placement must be limited to areas having natural
Slopes of less than 6%. Absorption areas for Seepage Beds must not be placed in
soils with a texture group of 8 on Table IX in Minn. Rule 7080.21501. Seepage
beds must not be located in Floodplains.
      (3)   The Trench bottom Absorption Area is calculated by dividing the
design flow by the appropriate sol loading rate in Table IX in Minn. Rule
7080.21501 or Table VI.
      (4)   If gravity distribution is used in Seepage Beds, the Seepage Bed
Absorption Area is calculated by dividing the design flow by the soil loading
rate and then multiplying that value by 1.5.
      (5)   If Pressure Distribution is used in Seepage Beds, the Seepage Bed
Absorption Area is determined by dividing the design flow by the soil loading
rate in Table IX in Minn. Rule 7080.21501 or Table VI.
      (6)   The minimum sidewall absorption is six inches. The bottom
Absorption Area is allowed to be reduced, for gravity distribution Trenches
only, by the following:
 
Sidewall Absorption - Inches Sizing Equivalent
8-11                         7%
12-17                        20%
18-23                        34%
24                           40%
 
      (7)   Trenches must be no more than 36 inches wide. Any excavation wider
than 36 inches shall be considered a Seepage Bed.
      (8)   A Seepage Bed must not be wider than 12 feet if gravity
distribution is used.
      (9)   A Seepage Bed must not be wider than 25 feet if Pressure
Distribution is used.
      (10)   Natural, undisturbed soil must exist between multiple Trenches and
Seepage Beds.
      (11)   Multiple Seepage Beds must be spaced at one-half the bed width.
Multiple units must be designed based on Contour Loading Rates as described in
§
52.02 and §
52.17(C) (9).
      (12)   A vertical inspection pipe at least four inches in diameter must
be installed and secured in the Distribution Medium of every Trench and Seepage
Bed. The inspection pipe must be located at an end opposite from where the
Sewage tank effluent enters the medium. The inspection pipe must have three-
eighths inch or larger perforations spaced vertically no more than six inches
apart. At least two perforations must be located in the Distribution Medium.
Perforations must not be located above the geotextile cover or wrap. The
inspection pipe must extend to the bottom of the Distribution Medium, be
secured, and be capped flush with or above finished grade.
      (13)   The top and bottom of the Distribution Medium must be level along
the contour. Sidewalls must be as vertical as practical and not intentionally
Sloped.
      (14)   The minimum depth of soil cover, including Topsoil borrow, over
the Distribution Medium is 12 inches.
      (15)   Trenches or Seepage Beds must be backfilled and crowned above
finished grade to allow for settling. The top six inches of the backfill must
have the same texture as the adjacent soil.
   (C)   Mounds.
      (1)   To qualify as a Mound System, the system must meet or exceed the
following requirements:
         (a)   Employ flow values in §
52.12.
         (b)   Meet or exceed applicable technical requirements of §§
52.13,
52.14, and
52.15.
         (c)   Meet or exceed the requirements of §
52.16.(B)2 and (C).
   (D)   Meet the requirements of §
52.17(C)(2) to(C) (30).
Location of mounds.
      (2)   The upper 18 inches of the Original Soil mound Absorption Area must
have a minimum loading rate of 0.45 gallons per day per square foot and a mound
absorption ratio greater than zero, but no more than 2.6 in Table IX in Minn.
Rules 7080.21501 or Table VI. The upper 18 inches of the Absorption Area must
also be above the Periodically Saturated Soil or Bedrock.
      (3)   For previously developed Sites, the upper 12 inches of the Original
Soil mound Absorption Area must have a mound absorption ratio of greater than
zero in Table IX in Minn. Rules 7080.21501 or Table VI. The upper 12 inches of
the Absorption Area must also be above the Periodically Saturated Soil or
Bedrock.
      (4)   Setbacks must be according to Table V. Setbacks must be measured
from the Original Soil Absorption Area.
      (5)   On Slopes of one percent or greater and where the Original Soil
mound absorption ratio is 2.6 or greater in Table IX in Minn. Rules 7080.21501
or Table VI, mounds must not be located where the ground surface contour lines
that lie directly below the long axis of the distribution media bed represent a
swale or draw, unless the contour lines have a radius of curvature greater than
100 feet. In no case shall mounds be placed on Slopes greater than 12%.
      (6)   Mounds must never be located in swales or draws where the radius of
curvature of the contour line is less than 50 feet.
Mound design and construction.
      (7)   The mound distribution media bed area consists of bottom area only
and must be calculated by dividing the design flow by 1.0 gallons per square
foot per day.
      (8)   The mound distribution media bed area must be as long and narrow as
practical. Mound distribution media beds must be no wider than ten feet.
      (9)   Mound distribution bed length and width must be determined by the
Contour Loading Rate, which is the relationship between the vertical and
horizontal water movement based on the following soil conditions:
         (a)   The permeability difference between the Original Soil mound
Absorption Area and slower permeability horizons below the Original Soil mound
Absorption Area.
         (b)   The depth between the Original Soil mound Absorption Area and
the change in permeability described in division (a) above.
         (c)   The land Slope.
      (10)   Clean Sand must be used to elevate the mound distribution media
bed and must consist of sound, durable material that conforms to the following
requirements:
 
Sieve Size Percent Passing
No. 4      95-100
No. 8      80-100
No. 10     0-100
No. 40     0-100
No. 60     0-40
No. 200    0-5
 
Clean Sand must also contain less than three percent deleterious substances and
be free of organic impurities.
      (11)   The Original Soil mound Absorption Area is determined by
multiplying the Original Soil mound absorption length by the Original Soil
mound absorption width. The Original Soil absorption width calculated by
multiplying the mound distribution media bed width by the mound absorption
ratio. The mound absorption ratio of the upper 18 inches of soil for New
Construction, or 12 inches of so: for previously developed Sites, in the
proposed Original Soil mound Absorption Area shall be determined according to
Table IX in Minn. Rule 7080.21501 or Table VI.
      (12)   The required Original Soil absorption width for mounds constructed
on Slopes from zero to one percent must be centered under the mound
distribution media bed width. The required original mound soil absorption width
constructed on Slopes greater than one percent must be measured downslope from
the upslope edge of the mound distribution media bed width and measured in the
direction of the original land Slope and perpendicular to the original
contours.
      (13)   The side Slopes on the mound must not be steeper than three
horizontal units to one vertical unit and shall extend beyond the required
Absorption Area, if necessary.
      (14)   Distribution of effluent over the mound distribution media bed
must be by level perforated pipe under pressure according to §§
52.14 and
52.15.
      (15)   The Supply Pipe from the pump to the Original Soil Absorption Area
must be installed before surface preparation of the original mound soil
Absorption Area. The Trench excavated for the Supply Pipe must be carefully
backfilled and compacted to prevent seepage of effluent.
      (16)   Vegetation in excess of two inches in length and dead organic
debris including leaf mats must be removed from the Original Soil mound
Absorption Area. Trees must be cut nearly flush with the ground and stumps must
not be removed.
      (17)   The Original Soil mound Absorption Area must be roughened by
backhoe teeth, moldboard, or chisel plow. The soil must be roughened to a depth
of eight inches. Discing is allowed if the upper eight inches of soil has a
texture of sandy loam or coarser. If plowed, furrows must be thrown uphill and
there must not be a dead furrow in the Original Soil mound Absorption Area. A
rubber tired tractor is allowed for plowing or discing. Rototilling or
pulverizing the soil is not allowed. The Original Soil must not be excavated or
moved more than one foot from its original location during soil surface
preparation.
      (18)   All surface preparation must take place when the upper 12 inches
of soil has a moisture content of less than the Plastic Limit and soil
conditions allow field testing of soil properties and these properties are
maintained throughout the installation,
      (19)   Prior to placement of six inches of Clean Sand, vehicles must not
be driven on the Original Soil mound Absorption Area before or after the
surface preparation is completed. The Clean Sand must immediately be placed on
the prepared surface.
      (20)   If rainfall occurs on the prepared surface, the Site must be
allowed to dry below the Plastic Limit and roughened as described in §
52.17(C)(17).
      (21)   The Clean Sand must be placed by using a construction technique
that minimizes compaction. If the Clean Sand is driven on for construction, a
crawler or track-type tractor must be used. At least six inches of Sand must be
kept beneath equipment to minimize compaction of the prepared surface.
      (22)   A minimum of 12 inches of Clean Sand must be placed in contact
with the bottom area of the mound distribution media bed and must be uniformly
tapered to cover the entire Original Soil Absorption Area. Other y materials
are allowed to be used outside of this area to complete construction of the
mound.
      (23)   The top of the Clean Sand layer upon which the mound distribution
media bed is placed must be level in all directions.
      (24)   A vertical inspection pipe at least four inches in diameter must
be installed and secured at the Distribution Medium and Sand interface. The
inspection pipe must have three-eighths inch or larger perforations spaced
vertically no more than six inches apart. At least two perforations must be
located in the Distribution Medium. Perforations must not be located above the
permeable synthetic fabric, if used. The inspection pipe must extend to the
bottom of the Distribution Medium, be secured, and be capped, flush with or
above finished grade.
      (25)   On Slopes of one percent or greater, the upslope edge of the mound
absorption bed must be placed on the contour.
      (26)   The sidewalls of the mound absorption bed must be as vertical as
practical and not intentionally Sloped.
      (27)   A minimum of six inches of Sand, Sandy loam or loam material must
be placed on the top of the mound absorption bed and Sloped upwards towards the
center of the mound a minimum often horizontal units to one vertical unit.
      (28)   Construction vehicles must not be allowed on the distribution
media until backfill is placed as described in division (27) above.
      (29)   A minimum of six inches of Topsoil borrow must be placed over the
entire mound.
      (30)   A vegetative cover must be established over the entire area of the
mound. The mound shall be protected until a vegetative cover is established by
use of erosion control. The established vegetative cover shall not interfere
with the hydraulic performance of the system and shall provide adequate frost
and erosion protection.
   (D)   At-grade systems.
      (1)   To qualify as an At-Grade System, the system must meet or exceed
the following requirements:
         (a)   Employ flow values in §
52.12.
         (b)   Meet or exceed applicable technical requirements of §§
52.13,
52.14, and
52.15.
         (c)   Meet or exceed the requirements of §
52.16(B) and (C).
         (d)   Meet the requirements of divisions (D)(2) to (14) of this
section.
      (2)   The upper 12 inches of the Absorption Area must have a loading rate
of 0.45 gallons per day per square foot or greater as shown in Table IX in
Minn. Rule 7080.21501 or Table VI.
      (3)   At-grade systems must not be installed in areas with Slopes greater
than 12%.
      (4)   Setbacks must be according to Table V. Setbacks must be measured
from the Original Soil Absorption Area.
Design and construction of At-Grade Systems.
      (5)   The at-grade absorption width must be as long and narrow as
practical. The at-grade absorption width must not exceed a width of 15 feet.
The at-grade absorption widths must be determined by the Contour Loading Rate,
which is the relationship between the vertical and horizontal water movement
water movement based on the following soil conditions:
         (a)   The permeability difference between the Original Soil mound
Absorption Area and slower permeability horizons below the Original Soil mound
Absorption Area.
         (b)   The depth between the Original Soil mound Absorption Area and
the change in permeability described in division (D)(5)(a) of this section.
         (c)   The land Slope.
      (6)   The minimum at-grade absorption bed width shall be calculated by
dividing the Contour Loading Rate by the soil loading rate of the upper 12
inches of soil.
      (7)   The minimum at-grade absorption length must be calculated by
dividing the design flow by the soil loading rate found in Table IX in Minn.
Rules 7080.21501 or Table VI for the upper 12 inches of soil and then dividing
that value by the absorption bed width.
      (8)   The at-grade bed absorption width for Slopes of one percent or
greater does not include any width of the media necessary to support the
upslope side of the pipe.
Table VII At-Grade Contour Loading Rates
                                          Other              Contour Loading
Perc Rate (mpi) Loading Rate Soil Texture Characteristics in Rate (GPD/ft)
                                          upper 48 inches
                                             Other              Contour Loading
Perc Rate (mpi) Loading Rate Soil Texture    Characteristics in Rate (GPD/ft)
                                             upper 48 inches
                                             No textural change 6
<0.l*           0.00         Coarse Sand     Saturated soil <
                                             3'                 5
                                             Bedrock < 4'
                                             No textural change 8
                                             Layers of other    7
                             Sand            textures
0.1 to 5.0      1.60         loamy Fine Sand Banding            4
                                             Saturated soil <   5
                                             3'
                                             Bedrock < 4'       5
                                             Strong to moderate
                                             structure          7
                                             No textural change
                                             Weak structure
                                             Layers of other    6
6 to 15         1.00         Sandy loam      textures
                                             Platy or massive
                                             structure
                                             Saturated soil <   5
                                             3'
                                             Bedrock < 4'
                                             Strong to moderate
                                             structure          6
                             Loam            No textural change
                             Silt loam       Weak structure
                             Silt            Layers of other    5
16 to 60        0.6-0.78     Clay loam       textures
                             Sandy clay      Platy or massive
                             Silty clay      structure
                                             Saturated soil <   4
                                             3'
                                             Bedrock < 4'
                                             Strong to moderate
                                             structure          3
                                             No textural change
                                             Weak structure
                             Clay            Layers of other    2
61 to 120 >120  0.0-0.3      Sandy clay      textures
                             Silty clay      Platy or massive
                                             structure
                                             Saturated soil <   2
                                             3'
                                             Bedrock < 4'
 
*See § 52.18(B) for a system with this type of soil (Type II, Rapidly Permeable
Soils Systems)
      (9)   At-grade systems must employ pressurized distribution by meeting or
exceeding the applicable requirements of §§
52.14 and
52.15. At-grade systems located on Slopes of one percent or greater require
only one distribution pipe located on the upslope edge of the distribution
media, with the absorption bed width being measured from the distribution pipe
to the downslope edge of the media. Multiple Distribution Pipes are allowed to
be used to provide Even Distribution, if necessary, based on Site conditions.
MISSING PAGES 70, 71
      (3)   An SSTS must not be located in a Floodway and, whenever possible,
placement within any part of the Floodplain should be avoided. If no
alternative exists, a system is allowed to be placed within the Flood Fringe if
the requirements of divisions (C)(4) to (11) are met.
      (4)   There must be no inspection pipe or other installed opening from
the distribution media to the soil surface.
      (5)   An SSTS must be located on the highest feasible area of the Lot and
must have the location preference over all other improvements, except the water
supply well. If the Ten-Year Flood data are available, the bottom of the
distribution media must be at least as high as the elevation of the Ten-Year
Flood.
      (6)   If a pump is used to distribute effluent to the soil treatment and
dispersal system, provisions shall be made to prevent the pump from operating
when inundated with floodwaters.
      (7)   When it is necessary to raise the elevation of the soil treatment
system to meet the Vertical Separation distance requirements, a Mound System as
specified in §
52.17(C) is allowed to be used with the following additional requirements:
         (a)   The elevation of the bottom of the mound bed Absorption Area
must be at least on-half foot above the Ten-Year Flood elevation, if Ten-Year
Flood data are available.
         (b)   In no case shall the Sand fill for the mound exceed 48 inches
below the mound bed Absorption Area.
         (c)   Inspection pipes must not be installed unless the top of the
mound is above the 100-year flood elevation.
         (d)   The placement of Clean Sand and other fill must be done
according to any community adopted Floodplain management ordinance.
      (8)   When the top of a Sewage tank is inundated, the Dwelling must cease
discharging Sewage into it.
      (9)   Backflow prevention of liquid into the Building when the system is
inundated must be provided. If a Holding Tank is used, the system must be
designed to Permit rapid diversion of Sewage into the Holding Tank when the
system is inundated.
      (10)   If a Holding Tank is used to serve a Dwelling, the Holding Tank's
capacity must equal 100 gallons times the number of Bedrooms times the number
of days between the ten-year stage on the rising limb of the 100-year flood
hydrograph and the ten-year stage on the falling limb of the hydrograph, of
1,000 gallons, whichever is greater. The Holding Tank must be accessible for
removal of tank contents under flooded conditions.
      (11)   Whenever the water level has risen above the top of a Sewage tank,
the tank must be pumped to remove all solids and liquids after the flood has
receded and before use of the system is resumed.
   (D)   Privies.
      (1)   Privies shall only be considered when there is no water supplied to
the Dwelling.
      (2)   Pit privies shall not be installed where the bottom of the pit is
less than three feet above the saturated soil or Bedrock. A vault Privy shall
be used in areas not meeting the three foot separation. The vault of a vault
Privy shall be constructed in the same manner as a Sewage tank in accordant
with §
52.13.
      (3)   Privies shall be set back from surface waters, Buildings, property
lines, and water supply wells prescribed in Table V.
      (4)   Pits or vaults shall be of sufficient capacity for the Dwelling
they serve, but shall have at least cubic feet of capacity. The sides of the
pit shall be curbed to prevent cave-in. The Privy shall 1 constructed so as to
be easily maintained and it shall be insect proof. The door and seat shall 1
self-closing. All exterior openings, including vent openings, shall be
screened.
      (5)   Privies shall be adequately vented.
      (6)   When the Privy is filled to within one foot of the top of the pit,
the solids shall be removed.
      (7)   Abandoned pits shall have the solids removed and be filled with
clean earth and slightly mounded to allow for settling. Removed solids shall be
disposed of in accordance with § 52.22.
   (E)   Holding tanks.
      (1)   Holding tanks may be considered for installation on previously
developed Sites, as a temporary method for periods of up to 12 months, during
which time measures are taken to provide municipal sewer service or the
installation of an approved system as provided in this chapter.
      (2)   Holding tanks may be considered on a permanent basis for non-
residential, low water use establishments with a Sewage flow of 150 gallons per
day or less, subject to approval by the Department or local unit of government.
      (3)   Holding tanks must be used for floor drains for vehicle parking
areas and existing facilities potentially generating Hazardous Waste.
      (4)   To qualify as a Holding Tank, the system must:
         (a)   Meet or exceed applicable requirements of §
52.13.
         (b)   Meet or exceed the applicable requirements of §
52.16(B).
         (c)   Meet or exceed the requirements of §
52.16(C)(2).
         (d)   Meet the requirements of § 52.18(E)(2) to (10).
      (5)   All tanks used as Holding Tanks must be tested once placed at the
final location for Watertightness as specified in Minn. Rule § 7080.2010.
      (6)   A cleanout pipe of at least six inches in diameter must extend to
the ground surface and be provided with seals to prevent odor emissions and
exclude insects and vermin. A maintenance hole of at least 20 inches in least
dimension must extend through the cover to a point within 12 inches, but not
closer than six inches, below finished grade. If the maintenance hole is
covered with less than six inches of soil, the cover must be secured according
the §
52.13(M).
      (7)   For a Dwelling, the minimum size is 1,000 gallons or 400 gallons
times the number of Bedrooms, whichever is greater. For Other Establishments,
the minimum capacity shall be at least five times the design flow. Tank sizing
for Floodplain areas must be calculated according to division (C)(10) of this
section.
      (8)   Holding tanks must be located in an area readily accessible to the
pump truck under all weather conditions and where accidental spillage during
pumping will not create a nuisance and must meet the Setback requirements of
Table V.
      (9)   Holding tanks must have an Alarm Device to minimize the chance of
accidental Sewage overflow unless regularly scheduled pumping is used. An Alarm
Device shall identify when the Holding Tank is at 75% capacity.
      (10)   A contract for disposal and treatment of the Septage shall be
maintained by the Owner with a licensed maintainer.
§ 52.19 TYPE III SYSTEMS.
   (A)   A system designed according to this part is considered a Type III
system. A system in soils with a loading rate of less than 0.45 gallons per day
per square foot may be installed on previously developed Sites as a Type III
system. The system must:
      (1)   Employ design flow values in §
52.12.
      (2)   Meet or exceed technical requirements in §
52.14(G)(1).
      (3)   Meet or exceed the requirements of §
52.16(B).
      (4)   Meet or exceed the requirements of §
52.16(C)(1), (2), (3), (7), (8), and (9).
      (5)   For previously developed Sites, if the Site cannot accommodate a
soil treatment and dispersal system sized in accordance with Table IX in Minn.
Rule 7080.21501 or Table VI, a smaller soil treatment and dispersal system is
allowed to be constructed if it employs flow restriction devices that do not
allow loadings in excess of those in Table IX in Minn. Rule 7080.21501 or Table
VI.
   (B)   Absorption areas sized smaller than a Type I system must employ flow
restriction devices that do not allow Absorption Area loadings in excess of
those in Table IX in Minn. Rule 7080.21501 or Table VI. This provision does not
apply to the Original Soil, Clean Sand Absorption Area of a Mound System.
   (C)   Type III systems can be used on previously developed Sites only when a
Type I or Type II system cannot be installed or is not the most suitable
treatment.
   (D)   Type III systems will not be allowed in areas where a new system or
modifications to a new system are not feasible if failure occurs.
   (E)   Type III systems will be allowed for undeveloped Lots only when two
Type I or Type II soil treatment and dispersal areas have been identified on
the Lot, in addition to the area utilized by the Type III soil treatment and
dispersal area. The Lot must be able to accommodate Long-Term Sewage Treatment
in addition to the area utilized by the Type III system.
   (F)   Graywater systems.
      (1)   Graywater Systems shall be classified as a Type III system and must
meet or exceed the following requirements:
         (a)   Employ 60% of the flow values in §
52.12.
         (b)   Meet or exceed applicable requirements of §§
52.13,
52.14, and
52.15, except as modified in this part.
         (c)   Meet or exceed the requirements of §
52.17.
         (d)   Meet or exceed the requirements of §
52.16(B) and (C).
         (e)   Meet the requirements of divisions (F)(2) and (3) of this
section.
      (2)   Toilet waste must not be discharged to a Graywater system.
      (3)   The Liquid Capacity of a Graywater Septic Tank serving a Dwelling
must be based on the number of Bedrooms existing and anticipated in the
Dwelling served and shall be at least as large as the capacities given in Table
VIII.
Table VIII - Minimum Septic Tank Capacity for Graywater Systems
 
Number of Bedrooms Tank I Tank 2
Two or less        1,000  500
Three              1,000  500
Four to Five       1,000  1,000
Six to Seven       1,000  1,000
Eight to Nine      1,500  1,000
Ten or More        Septic tank shall be sized as:
                   (2,000 + ((# of Bedrooms -9)*150)).
 
§ 52.20 TYPE IV SYSTEMS.
   (A)   A system designed according to this part is considered a Type IV
System. The system must:
      (1)   Employ design flow values in §
52.12.
      (2)   Meet or exceed applicable technical requirements of §§
52.13,
52.14, and
52.15.
      (3)   Meet or exceed the requirements of §
52.16(B).
      (4)   Meet or exceed the requirements of §
52.16(C)(A) and (B).
      (5)   Meet or exceed the requirements of Table IX, and Table XII in Minn.
Rule 7080.23504 or Table X.
   (B)   Type IV systems can be used on previously developed Sites only when a
Type I or Type II system cannot be installed or is not the most suitable
treatment.
   (C)   Type IV systems will not be allowed in areas where a new system or
modifications to a new system are not feasible if failure occurs.
   (D)   Type IV systems will be allowed for undeveloped Lots only when two
Type I or Type II soil treatment and dispersal areas have been identified on
the Lot, in addition to the area utilized by the Type III soil treatment and
dispersal area. The Lot must be able to accommodate Long-Term Sewage Treatment
in addition to the area utilized by the Type IV system.
Table IX
Treatment Component Performance Levels and Method of Distribution by Texture
Group1.
 
  Vertical Separation  Soil Texture Croup Found in Table IX in Minnesota
(inches)                Rules, Chapter 7080.21501
                        1-5                    6-9 10-11
12 - 17                 Treatment Level A, Pressure Distribution, Timed Dosing
                        Treatment Level B,         Treatment Level B, Pressure
18 - 23                 Pressure Distribution,     Distribution
                        Timed Dosing
                        Treatment Level B,     Treatment Level B, Pressure
24 - 36                 Pressure Distribution, Distribution
                        Timed Dosing
 
1 The treatment component performance levels correspond with those established
for treatment components under the product testing requirements in Table III of
Minn. Rule 7083.4030.
   (E)   A Type IV system's Absorption Area must be sized according to Table
XII-Loading Rates for Determining Bottom Absorption Area for Trenches and
Seepage Beds for Effluent Meeting Treatment Level A and B and Absorption Ratios
for Determining Mound Absorption Areas Using Detailed Soil Descriptions, as
found in Minn. Rules 7080.23504 or by using Table X if not using detailed soil
descriptions.
Table X
LOADING RATES FOR DETERMINING BOTTOM ABSORPTION AREA FOR TRENCHES AND SEEPAGE
BEDS FOR EFFLUENT MEETING TREATMENT LEVELS A AND B AND ABSORPTION RATIOS FOR
DETERMINING MOUND ABSORPTION AREAS USING PERCOLATION TESTS.
Percolation Rate   Soil Loading Rate Mound Absorption Ratio
(Minutes Per Inch) (gdp/ft2)
Percolation Rate               Soil Loading Rate Mound Absorption Ratio
(Minutes Per Inch)             (gdp/ft2)
< 0.1*                         -                 -
0.1 - 5*                       1.60              1
0.1 - 5 (Soil Texture Group 3) 1.0               2
6 - 15                         1.0               1.3
16 - 30                        0.78              2
31 - 45                        0.78              2.4
46 - 60                        0.6               2.6
> 60                           0.3               5.0
§ 52.21 TYPE V SYSTEMS.
   (A)   A system designed according to this part is considered a Type V
system. The system must:
      (1)   Employ design flow values in §
52.12.
      (2)   Meet or exceed the requirements of §
52.16(B).
      (3)   Be designed with Vertical Separation that ensures adequate Sewage
dispersal and treatment. Design factors to consider include, but are not
limited to, effluent quality, loading rates, Groundwater Mounding if loading
rates are in excess of those in Table XII in Minn. Rule 7080.23504 or Table X,
loading methods, and soil conditions. SSTS must not contaminate underground
waters or zones of periodic saturation with viable fecal organisms.
   (B)   Type V systems can be used on previously developed Sites only when a
Type I or Type II system cannot be installed or is not the most suitable
treatment.
   (C)   Type V systems will not be allowed in areas where a new system or
modifications to a new system are not feasible if failure occurs.
   (D)   Type V systems will be allowed for undeveloped Lots only when two Type
I or Type II soil treatment and dispersal areas have been identified on the
Lot, in addition to the area utilized by the Type III soil treatment and
dispersal area. The Lot must be able to accommodate Long-Term Sewage Treatment
in addition to the area utilized by the Type V system.
§ 50.22 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All new and Replacement SSTS must be operated in accordance with the
Management Plan submitted, reviewed, and approved by the Department or local
unit of government. At a minimum, Management Plans must include the following:
      (1)   Maintenance requirements, including frequency;
      (2)   Operational requirements, including which tasks the Owner can
perform and which tasks a licensed service provider or maintainer must perform;
      (3)   Monitoring requirements;
      (4)   Requirements that the Owner notify the Department when the
Management Plan requirements are not met;
      (5)   Disclosure of the location and condition of the additional soil
treatment and dispersal area on the Lot or serving that residency; and
      (6)   Other requirements determined by the Department.
   (B)   SSTS and all components must be maintained in compliance with this
chapter and manufacturer requirements.
   (C)   The Owner of an SSTS or the Owner's agent shall regularly, but in no
case less frequently than every three years:
      (1)   Assess whether Sewage tanks leak below the designed operating depth
and whether Sewage tank tops, riser joints, and riser connections leak through
visual evidence of major defects.
      (2)   Measure or remove the accumulation of scum, grease, and other
floating materials at the top of each Septic Tank and compartment, along with
the sludge, which consists of solids denser than water.
   (D)   All solids and liquids must be removed by pumping from all tanks or
compartments in which the top of the sludge layer is less than 12 inches from
the bottom of the outlet Baffle or transfer hole or whenever the bottom of the
scum layer is less than three inches above the bottom of the outlet Baffle or
transfer hole. Total sludge and scum volume must not be greater than 25% of the
tank's Liquid Capacity.
   (E)   Removal of accumulated sludge, scum, and liquids from Septic Tanks and
Pump Tanks must be through the maintenance hole. The removal of solids from any
location other than the maintenance hole is not a compliant method of solids
removal from a Sewage tank, and this method does not fulfill the solids removal
requirements of this Section or a Management Plan. Liquid and solids removal
from cleanout pips is allowed for Holding Tank.
   (F)   After removal of solids and liquids, from a system installed after the
effective date of this Chapter, the system shall be secured as described in §
52.13(M). Covers secured by screws shall be refastened in all screw openings.
   (G)   After removal of solids and liquids from a system installed prior to
the effective date of this chapter covers must:
      (1)   Be brought into compliance with §
52.13(M) if retrofitted to be brought above the ground surface.
      (2)   Be secured by covering with a minimum of 12 inches of soil.
      (3)   If the cover was currently at or above grade, the system must be
secured by a method that was deemed secure prior to the effective date of this
chapter.
   (H)   Pump tanks must be maintained according to this part. Sludge must be
removed if within one inch of the pump intake.
   (I)   When a Privy is filled to one half of its capacity, the solids must be
removed. Abandoned pits must have the Sewage solids and contaminated soil
removed and must be filled with clean earth and slightly mounded to allow for
settling. Removed solids shall be disposed of according to division (K) of this
section.
   (J)   Additives, which are products added to the Sewage or to the system
with the intent to lower the accumulated solids in Sewage, must not be used as
a means to reduce the frequency of proper maintenance and removal of Sewage
solids from the Sewage tanks as specified in this section. The use of additives
does not fulfill the solids removal requirement of this section or a Management
Plan. Additives that contain Hazardous Waste must not be used in an SSTS.
   (K)   Septage or any waste mixed with Septage must be disposed of in
accordance with state, federal, or local requirements for Septage and other
wastes. If Septage is disposed of into a Sewage or Septage treatment facility,
a written agreement must be provided between the accepting facility and the
maintenance business.
   (L)   Activities on the current Soil Dispersal System or the reserve Soil
Dispersal System, as defined in §
52.02 and described in §
52.09(D), that impair the current or future treatment abilities or hydraulic
performance of the Soil Dispersal System are prohibited. This includes, but is
not limited to, covering all or part of the soil treatment system with an
impermeable surface as determined by the local unit of government.
   (M)   Any maintenance activity used to increase the acceptance of effluent
to a soil treatment and dispersal system must:
      (1)   Not be used on a system failing to protect groundwater as defined
in §
52.04(C)(2), unless the activities meet the requirements of §§
52.20 or
52.21.
      (2)   Not decrease the separation to the Periodically Saturated Soil or
Bedrock.
      (3)   Not cause preferential flow from the soil treatment and dispersal
system bottom to the Periodically Saturated Soil or Bedrock.
      (4)   Be conducted by an appropriately Certified qualified employee or an
appropriately licensed business as specified in Minn. Rule 7083.0790. Any
substance added with the intent to increase the infiltration rate of the soil
treatment and dispersal system must not contain hazardous substances.
   (N)   Licensed maintenance businesses must maintain accurate records of
pumping activity in the County and shall report such data annually to the
Department on forms provided.
   (O)   MSTS must be maintained according to this section.
   (P)   All external grease interceptors must be routinely inspected to
determine the volume of grease present. All external grease interceptors must
be properly maintained to prevent clogging of downstream piping and system
components.
   (Q)   For all MSTS constructed after the effective date of this chapter, the
designer must complete an operation and maintenance manual and the manual must
be submitted to the Department or the local unit of government before system
operation. The manual shall include a copy of the plans and specifications, as-
built drawings of the system, and information to properly operate the system.
   (R)   All new MSTS shall be operated under a local operating Permit
submitted and approved with the design.
   (S)   All groundwater shall be monitored in accordance with §
52.11.
   (T)   Any operational noncompliance must be immediately corrected and
reported by the Owner or service provider to the Department or local unit of
government.
§ 52.23 SYSTEM ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   All systems with no future intent for use must be abandoned according
to this section. Tank abandonment procedures for Sewage tanks, Cesspools,
leaching pits, dry wells, Seepage Pits, vault privies, pit privies, and
Distribution Devices must meet the requirements of division (A)(1) to (A)(3) of
this section.
      (1)   All solids and liquids must be removed and disposed of according to
§ 52.22 by a license maintenance business.
      (2)   All electrical devices and devices containing mercury must be
removed and disposed of according to applicable regulations.
      (3)   Abandoned tanks or any other underground cavities must be removed
or remain in place and crushed with the remaining cavity filled with soil or
rock material.
      (4)   The removed tank or tank fragments and any soil visually
contaminated with Sewage shall be disposed in accordance with division (C) of
this section.
   (B)   Access for future discharge to the system must be permanently denied.
   (C)   If soil treatment and dispersal systems are removed, contaminated
materials shall be properly handled to prevent human contact. Contaminated
materials include distribution media, soil, or Sand within three feet of the
system bottom, Distribution Pipes, tanks, and contaminated soil around leaky
tanks. Contaminated material also includes any soil that received Sewage from a
surface failure. Contaminated materials must be disposed of according to
division (C)(1) to (C)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Contaminated materials disposed of offsite must be disposed of
according to § 52.22(K).
      (2)   If contaminated material is to be spread or used on Site within one
year of contact with Sewage, the material must be placed in an area meeting the
soil and Setback requirements described in Table V in §
52.16 and §
52.16(C)(3) and the material must be covered with a minimum of six inches of
uncontaminated soil and protected from erosion. After one year following
contact with Sewage, the material is allowed to be spread in any location
meeting the Setback requirement of Minn. Rule 4725.4450, covered with a minimum
of six inches of uncontaminated soil, and protected from erosion. After one
year following contact with Sewage, the material is allowed to be used to fill
in the abandoned in place Sewage tanks.
      (3)   Contaminated pipe, geotextile fabric, or other material must be
dried and disposed of in a mixed municipal Solid Waste landfill.
   (D)   The person or business abandoning the system must complete and sign a
record of abandonment that states the system was abandoned according to this
section. A description of the abandonment procedure must be recorded including
a map of the remaining in-place components and location of the components
removed. The record must be sent to the Department or local unit of government
within 90 days of abandonment.
   (E)   MSTS no longer in use must be abandoned according to this section.
§ 52.24 PRODUCT REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All product registration shall be in accordance with Minn. Rules
7083.4000 to 7083.4120.
   (B)   Technology and products employed in system design shall adequately
protect the public health and the environment as determined by Minn. Rules
Chapter 7083, and be approved for use by the Department or local unit of
government.
§ 52.25 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
violate any term or provision of this chapter. Violation thereof shall be a
misdemeanor in accordance with Minnesota Statute 609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be
amended from time to time; and the cost of prosecution may be added pursuant to
Minn. Stat. §631.48. Each day that a violation is allowed to continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In the event of a violation or threatened violation of this Chapter,
the Department, in addition to other remedies, may request appropriate actions
or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate such violations or
threatened violations, in addition, written notice in the form of a license
complaint may be made to the Commissioner of the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency.
   (C)   In cases where a public health nuisance has been determined to exist,
the Department may institute enforcement action under the Local Public Health
Act. M.S. Chapter 145A and the Washington County Public Health Nuisance
Ordinance. Washington County Ordinance No. 165, and subsequent revisions there
to.
APPENDIX A: SOIL LOADING RATES FOR LEVEL C TREATMENT
Loading Rates for Determining Bottom Absorption Area for Trenches and Seepage
Beds for Effluent Treatment Level C and Absorption Ratios for Determining Mound
Absorption Areas using Detail Soil Descriptions
                      Structure              Soil Loading Rate Mound Absorption
Texture Texture Group Type Grade Consistence (gpd/ft2)         Ratio
Loading Rates for Determining Bottom Absorption Area for Trenches and Seepage
Beds for Effluent Treatment Level C and Absorption Ratios for Determining
Mound Absorption Areas using Detail Soil Descriptions
                    Structure                            Soil
            Texture                                      Loading    Mound
Texture     Group   Type       Grade         Consistence Rate (gpd/ Absorption
                                                         ft2)       Ratio

Loading Rates for Determining Bottom Absorption Area for Trenches and Seepage
Beds for Effluent Treatment Level C and Absorption Ratios for Determining
Mound Absorption Areas using Detail Soil Descriptions
                    Structure                            Soil
            Texture                                      Loading    Mound
Texture     Group   Type       Grade         Consistence Rate (gpd/ Absorption
                                                         ft2)       Ratio

                                             Loose       -          1.0
                                             Weakly
Coarse      1       Single     Structureless cemented    -          2.0
Sand*               grain                    friable
                                             Cemented-   -          -
                                             firm
                                             Loose       1.20       1.0
                                             Weakly
Medium      2       Single     Structureless cemented    0.60       2.0
Sand*               grain                    friable
                                             Cemented-   -          -
                                             firm
                                             Loose       0.60       2.0
                                             Weakly
Fine Sand   3       Single     Structureless cemented    0.24       5.0
                    grain                    friable
                                             Cemented-   -          -
                                             firm
                                             Loose       1.20       1.0
Coarse and                                   Weakly
medium      4       Single     Structureless cemented    0.60       2.0
loamy Sand*         grain                    friable
                                             Cemented-   -          -
                                             firm
                                             Loose       0.60       2.0
Fine and                                     Weakly
very fine   5       Single     Structureless cemented    0.24       5.0
loamy Sand          grain                    friable
                                             Cemented-   -          -
                                             firm
                                             Very
                               Weak          friable,    0.45       2.6
                    Prismatic,               friable
                    blocky,                  Firm        0.24       5.0
                    granular                 Very
                               Moderate or   friable,    0.78       1.3
                               strong        friable
                                             Firm        0.45       2.6
Coarse and                                   Very
medium      6                  Weak          friable,    0.45       2.6
Sandy loam                                   friable
                    Platy                    Firm        0.24       5.0
                                             Very
                               Moderate or   friable,    0.45       2.6
                               strong        friable
                                             Firm        -          -
                                             Very
                    Massive    Structureless friable,    0.24       5.0
                                             friable
                                             Firm        -          -
                                             Very
                               Weak          friable,    0.24       5.0
                    Prismatic,               friable
                    blocky,                  Firm        0.24       5.0
                    granular                 Very
                               Moderate or   friable,    0.60       2.0
                               strong        friable
                                             Firm        0.24       5.0
Fine and                                     Very
very Fine   7                  Weak          friable,    0.24       5.0
Sandy loam                                   friable
                    Platy                    Firm        -          -
                                             Very
                               Moderate or   friable,    -          -
                               strong        friable
                                             Firm        -          -
                                             Very
                    Massive    Structureless friable,    0.24       5.0
                                             friable
                                             Firm        -          -
                                             Very
                               Weak          friable,    0.45       2.6
                    Prismatic,               friable
                    blocky,                  Firm        0.24       5.0
                    granular                 Very
                               Moderate or   friable,    0.60       2.0
                               strong        friable
                                             Firm        0.24       5.0
                                             Very
Loam        8                  Weak          friable,    0.24       5.0
                                             friable
                    Platy                    Firm        -          -
                                             Very
                               Moderate or   friable,    -          -
                               strong        friable
                                             Firm        -          -
                                             Very
                    Massive    Structureless friable,    0.24       5.0
                                             friable
                                             Firm        -          -
                                             Very
                               Weak          friable,    0.45       2.6
                    Prismatic,               friable
                    blocky,                  Firm        0.24       5.0
                    granular                 Very
                               Moderate or   friable,    0.50       2.4
                               strong        friable
                                             Firm        0.24       5.0
                                             Very
Silt loam   9                  Weak          friable,    0.24       5.0
                                             friable
                    Platy                    Firm        -          -
                                             Very
                               Moderate or   friable,    -          -
                               strong        friable
                                             Firm        -          -
                                             Very
                    Massive    Structureless friable,    0.24       5.0
                                             friable
                                             Firm        -          -
                                             Very
                               Weak          friable,    0.24       5.0
                    Prismatic,               friable
                    blocky,                  Firm        -          -
                    granular                 Very
                               Moderate or   friable,    0.45       2.6
                               strong        friable
Clay loam,                                   Firm        0.24       5.0
silty clay                                   Very
loam,       10                 Weak          friable,    -          -
Sandy clay                                   friable
loam                Platy                    Firm        -          -
                                             Very
                               Moderate or   friable,    -          -
                               strong        friable
                                             Firm        -          -
                                             Very
                    Massive    Structureless friable,    -          -
                                             friable
                                             Firm        -          -
                                             Very
                               Weak          friable,    -          -
                    Prismatic,               friable
                    blocky,                  Firm        -          -
                    granular                 Very
                               Moderate or   friable,    0.24       5.0
                               strong        friable
                                             Firm        -          -
Clay, silty                                  Very
clay, Sandy 11                 Weak          friable,    -          -
clay                                         friable
                    Platy                    Firm        -          -
                                             Very
                               Moderate or   friable,    -          -
                               strong        friable
                                             Firm        -          -
                                             Very
                    Massive    Structureless friable,    -          -
                                             friable
                                             Firm        -          -
 
APPENDIX B: SOIL LOADING RATES FOR LEVEL A & B TREATMENT
 
Loading Rates for Determining Bottom Absorption Area for Trenches and Seepage
Beds for Effluent Treatment Level A and Level B and Absorption Ratios for
Determining Mound Absorption Areas using Detail Soil Descriptions
                      Structure              Soil Loading Rate Mound Absorption
Texture Texture Group Type Grade Consistence (gpd/ft2)         Ratio
Loading Rates for Determining Bottom Absorption Area for Trenches and Seepage
Beds for Effluent Treatment Level A and Level B and Absorption Ratios for
Determining Mound Absorption Areas using Detail Soil Descriptions
                   Structure                            Soil
           Texture                                      Loading    Mound
Texture    Group   Type       Grade         Consistence Rate (gpd/ Absorption
                                                        ft2)       Ratio

Loading Rates for Determining Bottom Absorption Area for Trenches and Seepage
Beds for Effluent Treatment Level A and Level B and Absorption Ratios for      
Determining Mound Absorption Areas using Detail Soil Descriptions
                   Structure                            Soil       Mound       
Texture    Texture                          Consistence Loading    Absorption
           Group   Type       Grade                     Rate (gpd/ Ratio       
                                                        ft2)
                                            Loose       -          1.0         
                                            Weakly
Coarse     1       Single     Structureless cemented    -          2.0         
Sand*              grain                    friable
                                            Cemented-   -          -           
                                            firm
                                            Loose       1.60       1.0         
                                            Weakly
Medium     2       Single     Structureless cemented    0.78       2.0         
Sand*              grain                    friable
                                            Cemented-   -          -           
                                            firm
                                            Loose       1.00       2.0         
                                            Weakly
Fine Sand  3       Single     Structureless cemented    0.12       2.0         
                   grain                    friable
                                            Cemented-   -          -           
                                            firm
                                            Loose       1.60       1.0         
Coarse and                                  Weakly
medium     4       Single     Structureless cemented    0.78       2.0         
loamy              grain                    friable
Sand*                                       Cemented-   -          -           
                                            firm
                                            Loose       1.00       2.0         
Fine and                                    Weakly
very fine  5       Single     Structureless cemented    0.45       5.0         
loamy Sand         grain                    friable
                                            Cemented-   -          -           
                                            firm
                                            Very
                              Weak          friable,    0.60       2.6         
                   Prismatic,               friable
                   blocky,                  Firm        0.45       5.0         
                   granular                 Very
                              Moderate or   friable,    1.00       1.3         
                              strong        friable
                                            Firm        0.60       2.6         
Coarse and                                  Very
medium     6                  Weak          friable,    0.60       2.6         
Sandy loam                                  friable
                   Platy                    Firm        0.45       5.0         
                                            Very
                              Moderate or   friable,    0.60       2.6         
                              strong        friable
                                            Firm        -          -           
                                            Very
                   Massive    Structureless friable,    0.45       5.0         
                                            friable
                                            Firm        -          -           
                                            Very
                              Weak          friable,    0.45       5.0         
                   Prismatic,               friable
                   blocky,                  Firm        0.45       5.0         
                   granular                 Very
                              Moderate or   friable,    0.78       2.0         
                              strong        friable
                                            Firm        0.45       5.0         
Fine and                                    Very
very Fine  7                  Weak          friable,    0.45       5.0         
Sandy loam                                  friable
                   Platy                    Firm        0.00       -           
                                            Very
                              Moderate or   friable,    0.24       -           
                              strong        friable
                                            Firm        -          -           
                                            Very
                   Massive    Structureless friable,    0.45       5.0         
                                            friable
                                            Firm        -          -           
                                            Very
                              Weak          friable,    0.60       2.6         
                   Prismatic,               friable
                   blocky,                  Firm        0.45       5.0         
                   granular                 Very
                              Moderate or   friable,    0.78       2.0         
                              strong        friable
                                            Firm        0.45       5.0         
                                            Very
Loam       8                  Weak          friable,    0.45       5.0         
                                            friable
                   Platy                    Firm        -          -           
                                            Very
                              Moderate or   friable,    0.24       -           
                              strong        friable
                                            Firm        -          -           
                                            Very
                   Massive    Structureless friable,    0.45       5.0         
                                            friable
                                            Firm        -          -           
                                            Very
                              Weak          friable,    0.60       2.6         
                   Prismatic,               friable
                   blocky,                  Firm        0.45       5.0         
                   granular                 Very
                              Moderate or   friable,    0.78       2.4         
                              strong        friable
                                            Firm        0.45       5.0         
                                            Very
Silt Loam  9                  Weak          friable,    0.45       5.0         
                                            friable
                   Platy                    Firm        -          -           
                                            Very
                              Moderate or   friable,    -          -           
                              strong        friable
                                            Firm        -          -           
                                            Very
                   Massive    Structureless friable,    0.30       5.0         
                                            friable
                                            Firm        -          -           
                                            Very
                              Weak          friable,    0.30       5.0         
                   Prismatic,               friable
                   blocky,                  Firm        -          -           
                   granular                 Very
                              Moderate or   friable,    0.60       2.6         
                              strong        friable
Clay loam,                                  Firm        0.30       5.0         
silty clay                                  Very
loam,      10                 Weak          friable,    -          -           
Sandy clay                                  friable
loam               Platy                    Firm        -          -           
                                            Very
                              Moderate or   friable,    -          -           
                              strong        friable
                                            Firm        -          -           
                                            Very
                   Massive    Structureless friable,    -          -           
                                            friable
                                            Firm        -          -           
                                            Very
                              Weak          friable,    -          -           
                   Prismatic,               friable
                   blocky,                  Firm        -          -           
                   granular                 Very
                              Moderate or   friable,    0.30       5.0         
                              strong        friable
Clay,                                       Firm        -          -           
silty                                       Very
clay,      11                 Weak          friable,    -          -           
Sandy clay                                  friable
                   Platy                    Firm        -          -           
                                            Very
                              Moderate or   friable,    -          -           
                              strong        friable
                                            Firm        -          -           
                                            Very                               
                   Massive    Structureless friable,    -          -
                                            friable
                                                                        
1.   This Department adopted Table IX in Minn. Rules 7080.2150 as now
constituted and from time to time amended.
2.   This Department adopted Minn. Rules 7080.1910 to 7080.2020 as now
constituted and from time to time amended.
3.   This Department adopted Minn. Rules 7080.2050 as now constituted and from
time to time amended.
4.   This Department adopted Table XII in Minn. Rules 7080.2350 as now
constituted and from time to time amended.
5.   All Trenches and Seepage Beds in accordance with Minn. Rules 7080.2050, as
now constituted and from time to time amended.
6.   If the distribution media is in contact with soil with Soil Texture groups
2 or 3 in Table IX in Minn. Rules 7080.21501or a Percolation Rate of 0.1 to 5.0
minutes per inch in Table VI, the distribution of effluent must comply with
Minn. Rules 7080.2060, as now constituted and from time to time amended.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES; HIKING TRAILS
      
72.   PARKING RULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Adoption of state regulations
   
70.02   Seasonal load restrictions
   
70.03   Unnecessary acceleration of Motor Vehicle
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, the provisions of M.S. Chapters 168 and 169,
the Highway Traffic Regulation Act, and M.S. §§ 160.27, 171.02, 171.03, 171.04,
171.05, 171.08, 171.11, 171.22 and 171.24, as they may be amended from time to
time, shall be applicable and in full force and effect in the city, and the
same are hereby adopted by reference.
§ 70.02 SEASONAL LOAD RESTRICTIONS.
   (A) As determined by the Minnesota Department of Transportation or for such
other periods of time as may be authorized by resolution of the city from time
to time, the weight on any single axle shall not exceed five tons on any
municipal Street not otherwise restricted as provided in M.S. § 169.87, subd.
1, as it may be amended from time to time. The gross weight on consecutive
axles shall not exceed the gross weight allowed in M.S. § 169.822, as it may be
amended from time to time, multiplied by a factor of five divided by nine. This
reduction shall not apply to the gross vehicle weight.
   (B)   The provisions hereof shall not apply to emergency vehicles and public
utility vehicles responding to requests for assistance, school buses, garbage
trucks or other vehicles specifically authorized by prior written approval of
the Roads Commissioner of the city. The Roads Commissioner of the city shall
erect and maintain signs at reasonable locations within the city affecting
notice of the seasonal road restrictions imposed herein.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.03 UNNECESSARY ACCELERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No Persons shall start or accelerate any Motor Vehicle with an unnecessary
exhibition of speed on any public or private way within the city limits. Prima
facie evidence of such unnecessary exhibition of speed shall be the squealing
or screeching sounds emitted by the tires or the throwing of sand or gravel by
the tires of said vehicle, or both.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES; HIKING TRAILS
Section
Snowmobiles
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Regulations
   
71.03   Reserved
   
71.04   Reserved
   
71.05   Operation; emergencies
   
71.06   Restrictions
   
71.07   Equipment
   
71.08   Locking
   
71.09   Chasing animals
   
71.10   Trespass liability
Bicycle and Hiking Trails
   
71.25   Use of motorized vehicles
   
71.26   Horses and horse-drawn vehicles
   
71.27   Bicycles on hiking trails
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Regulations
   
71.42   Permit Process
   
71.43   Violations
   
71.59   Penalties
Golf Carts
   
71.60   Definitions
   
71.61   Regulations
   
71.62   Permit Process
   
71.63   Violations
   
71.79   Penalties
SNOWMOBILES
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSONS. An individual, partnership, corporation, the state and its agencies
and subdivisions and any body of Persons, whether incorporated or not.
   SNOWMOBILES. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow and ice or
natural terrain steered by wheels, skis, or runners.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder having the property in or title to
snowmobile entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Every person who Operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare, Roadway, alley, or trail used for motor
vehicular traffic which is not an interstate, trunk, county state aid, or
county highway.
   RIGHT OF WAY. The entire strip of land traversed by a highway or Street in
which the public owns the fee or an easement for Roadway purposes.
§ 71.02 REGULATIONS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to Operate a snowmobile within the
municipal limits of the City of Lake St. Croix Beach in any of the following
locations:
   (A)    On the portion of any Right of Way of any Street, except the most
right-hand lane then available for traffic or as close as practicable to the
right-hand curb or edge of the Roadway, except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle stopped in that lane or proceeding in the same direction.
Snowmobiles may also be Operated upon the outside slope of trunk, county state
aid and county highways where such highways are so configured within the
corporate limits.
   (B)   On a public sidewalk provided for pedestrian travel.
   (C)   On boulevards within any public Right of Way.
   (D)   On private property of another without specific permission of the
Owner or person in control of said property.
   (E)   On any other public place except as may be specifically permitted by
other provisions of the City Ordinances.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.03 STREET CROSSINGS.
Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing on a Street or highway, except an
interstate highway or freeway, provided:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the Street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing.
   (B)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way.
   (C)   The driver yields the Right of Way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
   (D)   In crossing a divided Street or highway, the crossing is made only at
an intersection of such Street or highway with another public Street or
highway.
   (E)   If the crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced visibility,
only if both front and rear lights are on.
§ 71.04 RIGHT OF WAY.
   No snowmobile shall enter any intersection without yielding the Right of Way
to any vehicles or pedestrians at the intersection, or so close to the
intersection as to constitute an immediate hazard.
§ 71.05 MINORS
   (A)   Minors are subject to the restrictions on operation in Minn. Stat.
84.872.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the Owner of a snowmobile to permit the snowmobile
to be Operated contrary to the provisions of this section.
§ 71.06 RESTRICTIONS.
It is unlawful for any person to Operate a snowmobile within the limits of the
City of Lake St. Croix Beach:
   (A)   At any place, while under the influence of alcohol or drugs as defined
in M.S. § 161.121, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all
surrounding circumstances.
   (C)   At any place in a careless, reckless, or negligent manner or
heedlessly in disregard of the rights or safety of others, or in a manner so as
to endanger or be likely to endanger or cause injury or damage to any person or
property.
   (D)   During the hours from 1:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m. on weekdays; during the
hours of 1:00 a.m. to 7 :00 a.m. on weekends.
   (E)   So as to tow any person or thing in a public Street or highway except
through use of a rigid tow bar attached to the rear of the snowmobile.
   (F)   Within 100 feet of any fisherman, pedestrian, skating rink or gliding
area where the operation would conflict with use or endanger other Persons or
property.
   (G)   Within the corporate limits of the City of Lake St. Croix Beach the
speed limit must not exceed 20 m.p.h.
   (H)   On any City Park land, including Pettitt Park, Riverfront Park,
Veteran's Memorial, and the Levees on Riviera Ave S and 21st Street S. However,
seasonal access during winter months is allowed over Park land and Public beach
at a site designated by City Council for the purpose of accessing frozen
waters. The access site and length of duration for access will be subject to
City Council determination.
§ 71.07 EQUIPMENT.
It is unlawful for any person to Operate a snowmobile any place within the
limits of the City of Lake St. Croix Beach unless it is equipped with the
following:
   (A)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass, straight pipe, or similar device on
a snowmobile motor.
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile under any condition of operation.
   (C)   A safety or go-called "deadman" throttle in operating condition. A
safety or "deadman" throttle is defined as a device which, when pressure is
removed from the engine accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be
disengaged from the driving track.
   (D)   When Operated between the hours of one-half hour after sunset to one-
half hour before sunrise or at times of reduced visibility, at least one clear
lamp attached to the front with sufficient intensity to reveal Persons and
vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness
under normal atmospheric conditions. Such head lamp shall be so aimed that
glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of an oncoming snowmobile
Operator. It shall be equipped with at least one red tail lamp having a minimum
candlepower of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light plainly visible from
a distance of 500 feet to the rear during hours of darkness under normal
atmospheric conditions.
   (E)   Reflective material at least 16 square inches on each side, forward of
the handlebars, so as to reflect light at a ninety degree angle.
§ 71.08 LOCKING.
Every person leaving a snowmobile on a public place shall lock the ignition,
remove the key, and take it with them.
§ 71.09 EMERGENCY.
   Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this ordinance, a snowmobile may be
Operated on a public thoroughfare in an emergency during the period of time
when, and at locations where, snow upon the Roadway renders travel by
automobile impractical.
§ 71.10 CHASING ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful to intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any animal
with a snowmobile.
§ 71.11 TRESPASS LIABILITY.
   Owners of land or Persons in control thereof shall not be liable for any
claim from Persons operating Snowmobiles thereon in violation of this
ordinance.
BICYCLE AND HIKING TRAILS
§ 71.25 USE OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to Operate any motorized vehicle, motorized foot
scooter as defined within M.S. § 169.01, subd. 4(c), as it may be amended from
time to time, or motorized bicycle as defined in M.S. § 168.011 or § 171.01,
subd. 41, as they may be amended from time to time, upon any public bicycle or
public hiking trail within the municipal limits of the city.
   (B)   The use of Snowmobiles will be permitted on the public bicycles and
hiking trail along St. Croix Trail (CSAH 18) between November 1 of each year
and April 1 of the next year inclusive, provided that the trail is snow
covered. The period of time during which Snowmobiles may be used on said trails
may be increased or decreased by action of the City Council published in the
official newspaper of the city designating the inclusive dates when the use of
Snowmobiles shall be permitted on said trails.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.26 HORSES AND HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLES.
It shall be unlawful to ride a horse or drive a horse-drawn vehicle upon any
public bicycle or public hiking trail within the limits of the city.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.27 BICYCLES ON HIKING TRAILS.
   All provisions of
Chapter 70 of this Code regulating traffic shall apply to the operation of
bicycles on said trail.
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES

Except as herein specifically addressed or modified, the provisions of
Minnesota Statute Section 169.045 are incorporated herein by reference.
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
ATV. An all-terrain motorized vehicle with: (1) not less than three, but not
more than six low pressure or non-pneumatic tires; (2) a total dry weight of
2,000 pounds or less; and (3) a total width from outside of tire rim to outside
of tire rim that is 65 inches or less. All-terrain vehicle includes a class 1
all-terrain vehicle and class 2 all-terrain vehicle.
CLASS 1 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. An all-terrain vehicle that has a total width from
outside of tire rim to outside of tire rim that is 50 inches or less.
CLASS 2 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. An all-terrain vehicle that has a total width from
outside of tire rim to outside of tire rim that is greater than 50 inches but
not more than 65 inches.
UTV. A utility task vehicle configured as a side-by-side, four-wheel drive,
off-road vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an internal combustion
engine with a piston displacement capacity of 1,200 cubic centimeters or less,
and has a total dry weight of 1,800 but less than 2,600 pounds
CITY. The City of Lake St. Croix Beach, Minnesota
CITY STREET. A Street that is under the jurisdiction of the City of Lake St.
Croix Beach, Minnesota
OPERATE. Driving and having physical control over the ATV or UTV.
PERMITTEE(S). The person(s) issued a permit for an ATV or UTV by the City.
RESIDENT. An individual who holds residence in the City of Lake St. Croix Beach
under the determination of Minn. Stat. 200.031.
§ 71.41 REGULATIONS.
No person shall Operate an ATV or UTV within the Municipal limits of the City
of Lake St. Croix Beach except as follows:
   (A)   On private property of the Owner of the ATV or UTV;
   (B)   Upon private property of another with the specific written permission
of the Owner or person in control of said property.
   (C)   Upon City Streets within the municipality of Lake St. Croix Beach with
the following requirements:
      (1)   A permit must be obtained from the City as provided herein.
      (2)   The ATV or UTV must be registered with the commissioner of natural
resources under Minn. Stat. 84.922.
      (3)   ATVs or UTVs shall be equipped with a rear-view mirror to provide
the driver with adequate vision from behind as required by Minn. Stat. §
169.70.
      (4)   Every person operating an ATV or UTV under permit on city Streets
has all the rights and duties applicable to the driver of any other vehicle
under the provisions of Minn. Stat. Ch. 169, except when those provisions
cannot reasonably be applied to ATVs or UTVs and except as otherwise
specifically provided in Minn. Stat. 169.045 Subd. 7.
      (5)   Operators of any ATV or UTV permitted herein must have a valid
driver's license. Operators do not need to have the driver's license in their
possession while operating the ATV or UTV.
      (6)   An individual who was born after July 1, 1987, and who is 16 years
of age or older, must successfully complete the independent study course
component of all-terrain vehicle safety training before operating an ATV on
city Streets.
      (7)   All ATVs or UTVs on City Streets must display a permit sticker on
the left side rear fender or similar component of the ATV or UTV issued by the
City.
§ 71.42 PERMIT PROCESS
   (A)   Application. All permits shall be issued for a specific ATV or UTV in
the name(s) of the applicant(s) (Permittee(s)). An application for a permit
shall be submitted to the city on a form provided by the city and shall contain
the following information:
      (1)   Name(s) and address of applicant(s).
      (2)   Model name, make, year of manufacture, and serial number of the ATV
or UTV.
      (3)   Copy of current DNR registration for the ATV or UTV.
      (4)   Evidence of Insurance.
      (5)   Other information as the city may require.
   (B)   Conditions.
      (1)   The applicant(s) must be a Resident of Lake St. Croix Beach.
      (2)   The applicant(s) must be at least 18 years of age.
      (3)   The applicant(s) must be a legal Owner of the ATV or UTV.
      (4)   The applicant(s) must provide evidence of insurance complying with
the provisions of Minnesota Statutes concerning insurance coverage for the ATV
or UTV. Proof of insurance shall be maintained on, or within, the ATV or UTV at
all times that it is Operated on city Streets.
      (5)   The applicant(s) for an ATV or UTV permit and all Operators of the
ATV or UTV on city roads must have a valid driver's license; and
      (6)   The applicant(s) has not had their driver's license revoked as the
result of criminal proceedings.
   (C)   Permit fees and term.
      (1)   The fee for such permit shall be in accordance with the current
city fee schedule, as amended.
      (2)   Permits will be granted for a one-year period. Permits may be
purchased at any time during the year but will be valid only for one calendar
year, including the year of issuance and will expire on December 31 of the year
of issuance.
      (3)   The permit may be suspended or revoked by the City Clerk-
Administrator or Law Enforcement upon finding that a permit holder has violated
the conditions of this ordinance or state statute, has abused the privilege of
being a permit holder, or upon finding that the Permittee cannot safely Operate
the ATV or UTV on the designated Roadways. There will be no refund of the
permit fee if suspended or revoked. If a permit is revoked by the city the
Permittee(s) may reapply for a new permit 12 months after the date of
revocation.
      (4)   Upon receipt of application and fee, Permittee(s) will be issued a
numbered sticker to affix to the left side rear fender or similar component of
the ATV or UTV.
§ 71.43 VIOLATIONS
It is a crime under this chapter:
   (A)   To Operate, or be in physical control of any ATV or UTV while impaired
under Minn. Stat. 169A.20, which is hereby incorporated by reference.
   (B)   To Operate an ATV or UTV in violation of federal, state, or local law.
   (C)   To Operate an ATV or UTV at any place in a careless, reckless, or
negligent manner or heedlessly in disregard of the rights or safety of others,
or in a manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger or cause injury or
damage to any person or property.
   (D)   To tow any person or thing in a public Street or highway except
through use of a rigid tow bar attached to the rear of the ATV or UTV.
   (E)   To Operate an ATV or UTV with a number of occupants exceeding the
design occupant load.
   (F)   To exceed the current speed limit of 20mph as posted.
   (G)   To Operate an ATV or UTV on state or federal highways except to cross
at designated intersections.
   (H)   To Operate an ATV or UTV on any City Park land, including Pettitt
Park, Riverfront Park, and the Levees on Riviera Ave S and 21st Street S.
However, seasonal access during winter months is allowed over Park land and
Public beach at a site designated by City Council for the purpose of accessing
frozen waters. The access site and length of duration for access will be
subject to City Council determination.
   (I)   To Operate ATVs or UTVs on city Streets from sunset to sunrise unless
equipped with original equipment headlights, taillights, and rear-facing brake
lights.
   (J)   To Operate ATVs or UTVs in inclement weather conditions or at any time
when there is insufficient light to clearly see Persons and vehicles on the
Roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   (K)   For an Operator of an ATV or UTV to be under 16 years of age. In the
case of operation of an ATV or UTV by an individual under 16 years of age, the
Permittee shall be the individual cited for the violation.
   (L)   For a Permittee(s) to fail to ensure their ATV or UTV is not Operated
in violation of federal, state, or local law, including but not limited to
operating an ATV or UTV without a permit and the violations listed in 1006.040.
§ 71.44 - 71.58 RESERVED
§ 71.59 PENALTIES
   Violations of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. Every person convicted of
a violation of the provisions of this ordinance shall be punished in accordance
with Minnesota Statute 609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be amended from time to time;
and the cost of prosecution may be added pursuant to Minn. Stat. §631.48.
Golf Carts

Except as herein specifically addressed or modified, the provisions of
Minnesota Statute Section 169.045 in relation to Golf Carts are incorporated
herein by reference.
§ 71.60 DEFINITIONS
   GOLF CART. The term Golf Cart includes both electric and gas powered
motorized carts, generally have a small wheelbase, and are not completely
enclosed, and
   ∙   Three or four low pressure or non-pneumatic tires;
   ∙   An engine displacement less than 800 cubic centimeters; and
   ∙   Not capable of reaching speeds greater than 20 miles per hour.
   CITY. The City of Lake St. Croix Beach, Minnesota
   CITY STREET. A Street that is under the jurisdiction of the City of Lake St.
Croix Beach, Minnesota
   OPERATE. Driving and having physical control over the motorized Golf Cart or
off-highway vehicle.
   PERMITTEE(S). The person(s) issued a permit for a Golf Cart by the City.
   RESIDENT. An individual who holds residence in the City of Lake St. Croix
Beach under the determination of Minn. Stat. 200.031.
§ 71.61 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Golf carts may be Operated on city Streets only with a validly issued
permit from the City.
   (B)   Every person operating a Golf Cart under permit on city Streets has
all the rights and duties applicable to the driver of any other vehicle under
the provisions of Minn. Stat. Ch. 169, except when those provisions cannot
reasonably be applied to Golf Carts and except as otherwise specifically
provided in Minn. Stat. 169.045 Subd. 7.
   (C)   Operators of any Golf Cart permitted herein must have a valid driver's
license. A valid driver's license must be in the Operator's possession while
operating the Golf Cart.
   (D)   All Golf Carts on City Streets must display a permit sticker on the
left side rear fender or similar component of the Golf Cart issued by the City.
§ 71.62 PERMIT.
   (A)   Application. All permits shall be issued for a specific Golf Cart in
the name(s) of the applicant(s) (Permittee(s)). An application for a permit
shall be submitted to the city on a form provided by the city and shall contain
the following information:
      (1)   Name(s) and address of applicant(s).
      (2)   Model name, make, year of manufacture, and serial number, if
applicable of the Golf Cart.
      (3)   Evidence of Insurance.
      (4)   Other information as the city may require.
   (B)   Conditions.
      (1)   The applicant(s) must be a Resident of Lake St. Croix Beach.
      (2)   The applicant(s) must be at least 18 years of age.
      (3)   The applicant(s) must be a legal Owner of the Golf Cart.
      (4)   The applicant(s) must provide evidence of insurance complying with
the provisions of Minnesota Statutes concerning insurance coverage for the Golf
Cart. Proof of insurance shall be maintained on, or within, the Golf Cart at
all times that it is Operated on city Streets.
      (5)   The applicant(s) for a Golf Cart permit and all Operators of the
Golf Cart on city roads must have a valid driver's license.
      (6)   The applicant(s) has not had their driver's license revoked as the
result of criminal proceedings.
   (C)   Permit fees and term.
      (1)   The fee for such permit shall be in accordance with the current
city fee schedule, as amended.
      (2)   Permits will be granted for a one-year period. Permits may be
purchased at any time during the year but will be valid only for one calendar
year, including the year of issuance and will expire on December 31 of the year
of issuance.
      (3)   The permit may be suspended or revoked by the City Clerk-
Administrator or Law Enforcement upon finding that a permit holder has violated
the conditions of this ordinance or state statute, has abused the privilege of
being a permit holder, or upon finding that the Permittee cannot safely Operate
the Golf Cart on the designated Roadways. There will be no refund of the permit
fee if suspended or revoked. If a permit is revoked by the city the Permittee
(s) may reapply for a new permit twelve (12) months after the date of
revocation.
      (4)   Upon receipt of application and fee, Permittee(s) will be issued a
numbered sticker to affix to the left side rear fender or similar component of
the Golf Cart.
§ 71.63 VIOLATIONS.
It is a crime under this chapter:
   (A)   To Operate, or be in physical control of any Golf Cart while impaired
under Minn. Stat. 169A.20, which is hereby incorporated by reference.
   (B)   To Operate a Golf Cart in violation of federal, state, or local law.
   (C)   To Operate a Golf Cart at any place in a careless, reckless or
negligent manner or heedlessly in disregard of the rights or safety of others,
or in a manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger or cause injury or
damage to any person or property.
   (D)   To tow any person or thing in a public Street or highway except
through use of a rigid tow bar attached to the rear of the Golf Cart.
   (E)   To Operate a Golf Cart with a number of occupants exceeding the design
occupant load.
   (F)   To exceed the current speed limit of 20mph as posted.
   (G)   To Operate a Golf Cart on state or federal highways except to cross at
designated intersections.
   (H)   To Operate a Golf Cart on any City Park land, including Pettitt Park,
Riverfront Park, Veteran's Memorial, and the Levees on Riviera Ave S and 21st
Street S.
   (I)   To Operate Golf Carts on city Streets from sunset to sunrise, unless
equipped with original equipment headlights, taillights, and rear-facing brake
lights.
   (J)   To Operate Golf Carts in inclement weather conditions or at any time
when there is insufficient light to clearly see Persons and vehicles on the
Roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   (K)   To Operate a Golf Cart with a passenger seated on the lap of the
Operator.
   (L)   To Operate a Golf Cart with passengers not seated while the Golf Cart
is in motion. Hanging on to a Golf Cart is prohibited.
   (M)   For an Operator of a Golf Cart to be under 16 years of age. In the
case of operation of a Golf Cart by an individual under 16 years of age, the
Permittee shall be the individual cited for the violation.
   (N)   For a Permittee(s) to fail to ensure their Golf Cart is not Operated
in violation of federal, state, or local law, including but not limited to
operating a Golf Cart without a permit and the violations listed in 1007.040.
§ 71.64 EQUIPMENT
To ensure the safety of all drivers on city Streets, Golf Carts must be
equipped with the following:
   (A)   Slow-moving vehicle emblem. Motorized Golf Carts shall display the
slow-moving vehicle emblem provided for in section 169.045, when Operated on
City Streets.
   (B)   Lights. Original equipment headlights, taillights and rear-facing
brake lights are required for driving after sunset and before sunrise.
   (C)   Mirror. Golf carts shall be equipped with a mirror so located as to
reflect to the driver a view of the highway for a distance of at least 200 feet
to the rear of such vehicle as required by MN Statute 169.70.
§ 71.65- 71.78 RESERVED
§ 71.79 PENALTIES
   Violations of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. Every person convicted of
a violation of the provisions of this ordinance shall be punished in accordance
with Minnesota Statute 609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be amended from time to time;
and the cost of prosecution may be added pursuant to Minn. Stat. §631.48.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING RULES
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Winter parking
   
72.03   General parking regulations
   
72.04   No parking areas; erection of signs
   
72.05   Weight restrictions for commercial vehicles
   
72.06   Municipal parking lots
   
72.07   Parking on private property
   
72.08   Summer parking
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled Motor Vehicle or other vehicle on wheels
which would ordinarily travel on public Streets.
   OWNER. Includes any person, firm, association, or corporation owning,
renting, or having charge of a Motor Vehicle.
   SNOW-REMOVAL PERIOD. A period of time of no more than 48 hours after each
snowfall, except that said SNOW-REMOVAL PERIOD shall be deemed to have
terminated on those Streets on which snow has been removed if the removal has
been completed in a period of time less than 48 hours.
   STREET. Any Street, avenue, or other public way in the city.
§ 72.02 WINTER PARKING.
   Between November 1 and April 1 of the following year, no vehicle shall be
left standing or parked on the Streets of the city for more than 24 consecutive
hours at any time. Any vehicle which shall be left parked or standing in
violation of the provisions hereof may be summarily removed without notice to
the Owner or Operator by the County Sheriff's Department or Persons employed or
designated by it and stored in any appropriate place. All necessary costs and
expenses of towing, removing and storage of such vehicles shall first be paid
by the person claiming the vehicle before release of the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Owner of any vehicle parked or left standing upon any Street,
within the corporate limits of the city shall conform to and observe the
regulations set forth in the subdivisions which follow in regard to the parking
thereof.
   (B)   Except as is set forth above affecting winter parking regulations, no
vehicle will be left standing or parked at the curb of any Street or on any
public place within the corporate limits of this city for more than 48
continuous hours.
   (C)   No person, except physicians on emergency calls or other emergency
vehicles, shall park on any Street in the city during a Snow-Removal Period, as
defined above.
   (D)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon the Street
or highway in violation of divisions (A) through (C) above, such officer is
hereby authorized to move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person
in charge of the vehicle to remove the same, to a position off the Street. If
the Owner or Operator of said vehicle is not available to remove said vehicle,
it shall be towed away from said parking place at the direction of the
Sheriff's Department to having the same returned to them, shall pay the cost of
the towing plus the cost of storage until claimed by Owner. The payment of said
sums shall be prerequisite for the return of the vehicle to the person entitled
thereto.
   (E)   Any damage occasioned to any such vehicle by such towing operations or
the storage of said vehicle thereafter, shall be assumed by the Owner or
Operator hereof, and no liability for damage shall be assumed by the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 NO PARKING AREAS; ERECTION OF SIGNS.
   The City Council shall, from time to time, designate by resolution any
Street or any part thereof to be a no parking area and erect signs or otherwise
mark the area so designated to inform motorists. The City Council may also in a
permitted on any place on any Street.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS FOR COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No Motor Vehicle over one-ton capacity bearing a commercial license
and/or commercially licensed trailer may be parked or stored in a Residential
or public use zone except when loading, unloading, or rendering service.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Resident may apply for an annual
permit to be able to park one commercial Motor Vehicle over one ton capacity
bearing a current commercial license at their place of residence on the
driveway or established parking pad designed for that purpose, subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   The commercial Motor Vehicle must be owned by the Resident making
application.
      (2)   The commercial vehicle must not be left idling on the premises for
any period of time in excess of 30 consecutive minutes.
      (3)   The Resident must have obtained the consent of all adjacent
property Owners within 250 feet of their place of residence.
      (4)   The vehicle must not be on the Resident's premises for more than
ten days per month of which not more than seven of the days may be consecutive.
      (5)   No trailers may be attached to the vehicle or left on premises at
any time.
   (C)   Fees for the application for such a permit shall be in accordance with
the current city fee schedule, as amended. Applications may be made to the
office of the City Clerk-Administrator on a form established for that purpose
by the office of the City Clerk-Administrator.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS.
   The City Council shall have the authority to designate municipal parking
lots upon property owned or controlled by the city and, further, shall provide
and designate from time to time by resolution parking rates, handicapped
parking zones, hours of use and all other reasonable regulations with regard to
the use thereof. The fees for such parking shall be in accordance with the
current city fee schedule, as amended. Persons parking in the municipal parking
lots must pay said fees.
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall park a Motor Vehicle upon private property owned or occupied
by another individual without the express consent of the Owner or occupant of
the private property.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.08 SUMMER PARKING.
   (A)   The City of Lake St. Croix Beach hereby prohibits the parking of any
vehicle upon city Streets or rights-of-way between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and
8:00 p.m. from May 1 to September 30 of each year; and
   (B)   The City of Lake St. Croix Beach hereby authorizes and directs the
posting of no parking signs throughout the city to advise of the parking
regulations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION; WATERCRAFT
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
94.   TREES
      
95.   ALARM SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 90: PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Findings, purpose, and intent
   
90.002   Election to manage rights-of-way
   
90.003   Definitions
   
90.004   Administration generally
   90.005   Appeal
Registration and Occupancy
   
90.020   Registration required; exceptions
   
90.021   Information required
   
90.022   Reporting obligations
Permits, Obligations, and Inspections
   
90.035   Permit required
   
90.036   Permit extensions
   
90.037   Delay penalty
   
90.038   Display of permit
   
90.039   Permit application
   
90.040   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
90.041   Permit fees
   
90.042   Excavation permit; patching and restoration
   
90.043   Joint applications
   
90.044   Supplementary applications
   
90.045   Other obligations
   
90.046   Denial of permit
   
90.047   Installation requirements
   
90.048   Inspections
   
90.049   Work done without permit
   
90.050   Supplementary notification
   
90.051   Revocation of permit
Conditions and Regulations
   
90.065   Mapping data
   
90.066   Location, relocation of facilities
   
90.067   Pre-excavation facilities
   
90.068   Damage to other facilities
   
90.069   Right-of-way vacation
   
90.070   Indemnification and liability
   
90.071   Abandoned, unusable facilities
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND INTENT.
   (A)   To provide for the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens, and to
ensure the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-
way, the City strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good repair and
free from unnecessary encumbrances.
   (B)   Accordingly, the City hereby enacts this chapter of this code relating
to right-of-way Permits and administration. This chapter imposes reasonable
regulation on the placement and maintenance of Facilities and Equipment
currently within its rights-of-way or to be placed therein at some future time.
It is intended to complement the regulatory roles of state and federal
agencies. Under this chapter, Persons excavating and Obstructing the rights-of-
way will bear financial responsibility for their work. Finally, this chapter
provides for recovery of out-of-pocket and projected costs from Persons using
the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   This chapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session Laws,
Chapter 123, substantially codified in M.S. §§ 237.16, 237.162, 237.163,
237.79, 237.81 and 238.086 (the Act), as they may be amended from time to time,
and the other laws governing applicable rights of the City and users of the
right-of-way. This chapter shall also be interpreted consistent with Minn.
Rules, parts 7819.0050 through 7819.9950 where possible. To the extent any
provision of this chapter cannot be interpreted consistently with the Minnesota
Rules, that interpretation most consistent with the Act and other applicable
statutory and case law is intended. This chapter shall not be interpreted to
limit the regulatory and police powers of the City to adopt and enforce general
ordinances necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
§ 90.002 ELECTION TO MANAGE RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the City under state and federal
statutory, administrative, and common law, the City hereby elects pursuant to
M.S. § 237.163, subd. 2(b), as it may be amended from time to time, to manage
rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
§ 90.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A Facility no longer in Service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating Facility, or from any other
Facility, that is in use or still carries Service. A Facility is not ABANDONED
unless declared so by the Right-Of-Way User .
   APPLICANT. Any Person requesting permission to Excavate , Obstructor
otherwise place Facilities in a right-of-way.
   CITY. The City of Lake St. Croix Beach Minnesota. For purposes of § 90.070,
CITY means its elected officials, officers, employees, and agents.
   COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace a Small Wireless Facility on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing
Wireless Support Structure or Utility Pole that is owned privately, or by the
City or other governmental unit.
   COMMISSION. The State Public Utilities Commission.
   CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY . A crowded condition in the subsurface of the Public
Right-Of-Way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground Facilities does not allow for construction of new underground
Facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral Facilities
in conformance with M.S. § 216D.04, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to
time, over a continuous length in excess of 500 feet.
   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND. Any of the following forms of security
provided at Permittee's option:
   (A)   Individual project bond;
   (B)   Cash deposit;
   (C)   Security of a form listed or approved under M.S. § 15.73, subd. 3, as
it may be amended from time to time;
   (D)   Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the City;
   (E)   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the City; or
   (F)   A blanket bond for projects within the City, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the City.
   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rules, part 7819.1100, the cost to
achieve a level of Restoration as determined by the City at the time the Permit
is issued, not to exceed the maximum Restoration shown in plates 1 to 13, set
forth in Minn. Rules, parts 7819.9900 through 7819.9950.
   DEGRADATION FEE. The estimated fee established at the time of Permitting by
the City to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of
the right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation
cost.
   DELAY PENALTY . The PENALTY imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, Obstruction, Patching or Restoration as established by
Permit.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that poses a danger to life or health, or of a
significant loss of property; or requires immediate repair or replacement of
Facilities in order to Restore Service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain
Facilities in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE . To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. The Permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a Person may Excavate in a right-of-way. An EXCAVATION PERMIT
allows the holder to Excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such
Permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the City by an Applicant to cover the
costs as provided in §
90.041.
   FACILITY OR FACILITIES . Any tangible asset in the right-of-way required to
provide Utility Service .
   FIVE-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the City for construction
within the next FIVE YEARS.
   HIGH DENSITY CORRIDOR. A designated portion of the Public Right-Of-Way
within which telecommunications Right-Of-Way User's having multiple and
competing Facilities may be required to build and install Facilities in a
common conduit system or other common structure.
   HOLE. An excavation in the Pavement, with the excavation having a length
less than the width of the Pavement.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local Person or Persons, or designee of such Person
or Persons, authorized by a Registrant to accept Service and to make decisions
for that Registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS. The actual costs the City incurs in managing its rights-
of-way, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
Applicants; issuing, processing and verifying right-of-way Permit applications;
inspecting job sites and Restoration projects; maintaining, supporting,
protecting or moving user Facilities during right-of-way work; determining the
adequacy of right-of-way Restoration; restoring work inadequately performed
after providing notice and the opportunity to correct the work; and revoking
right-of-way Permits. MANAGEMENT COSTS do not include payment by a
telecommunications Right-Of-Way User for the use of the right-of-way, the fees
and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of Minnesota Session Laws
1997, Chapter 123, M.S. §§ 237.162 or 237.163, as they may be amended from time
to time, or any ordinance enacted under those sections, or the City fees and
costs related to appeals taken pursuant to §
90.005 of this chapter.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder
free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way, or so as to
hinder maintenance of any City asset.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The PERMIT which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a Person may Obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the City by a Permittee to cover the
costs as provided in §
90.041.
   PATCH or PATCHING. A method of Pavement replacement that is temporary in
nature. A PATCH consists of the compaction of the subbase and aggregate base,
and the replacement, in kind, of the existing Pavement for a minimum of two
feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions. A PATCH is
considered full Restoration only when the Pavement is included in the City's
Five-Year Project Plan.
   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the Public Right-Of-
Way and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate or gravel.
   PERMIT. Has the meaning given "right-of-way Permit" in M.S. § 237.162, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   PERMITTEE. Any Person to whom a Permit to Excavate or Obstruct a right-of-
way has been granted by the City under this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate, or political.
   PROBATION. The status of a Person that has not complied with the conditions
of this chapter.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. One year from the date that a Person has been notified
in writing that they have been put on Probation.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway,
street, cartway, bicycle lane and public sidewalk in which the City has an
interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel purposes and
utility easements of the City. A RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include the airwaves
above a RIGHT-OF-WAY with regard to cellular or other nonwire
telecommunications or broadcast Service.
   REGISTRANT. Any Person who has or seeks to have its Equipment or Facilities
located in any right-of-way, or in any way occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy
or use, the right-of-way or place its Facilities or Equipment in the right-of-
way.
   RESTORATION COST. The amount of money paid to the City by a Permittee to
achieve the level of Restoration according to plates 1 to 13 of Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission rules.
   RESTORE or RESTORATION. The process by which an Excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including Pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. Either the Excavation Permit, the Obstruction Permit,
the small cell Permit, or any combination thereof depending on the context,
required by this chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER . A telecommunications Right-Of-Way User as defined by
M.S. § 237.162, subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time, or a Person
owning or controlling a Facility in the right-of-way that is used or intended
to be used for providing Utility Service , and who has a right under law,
franchise, or ordinance to use the Public Right-Of-Way.
   SERVICE or UTILITY SERVICE. Includes:
   (A)   Those s provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. § 216B.02,
subds. 4 and 6, as they may be amended from time to time;
   (B)   Services of a telecommunications Right-Of-Way User , including
transporting of voice or data information;
   (C)   Services of a cable communications systems as defined in M.S. Chapter
238, as it may be amended from time to time;
   (D)   Natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications Services provided
by the City;
   (E)   Services provided by a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Chapter 308A, as it may be amended from time to time; and
   (F)   Water, sewer, steam, cooling or heating Services.
   SERVICE LATERAL. An underground Facility that is used to transmit,
distribute, or furnish 'gas, electricity, communications, or water from a
common source to an end-use customer. A Service lateral is also an underground
Facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer's premises.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A Wireless Facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
   (A)   each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six cubic
feet in volume or could fit within such an enclosure; and
   (B)   all other wireless Equipment associated with the Small Wireless
Facility provided such Equipment is, in aggregate, no more than 28 cubic feet
in volume, not including electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding
Equipment, power transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical
cable runs for the connection of power and other Services, and any Equipment
concealed from public view within or behind an existing structure or
concealment.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to Excavate or Obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a Permit that had already
been issued.
   TELECOMMUNICATION RIGHT-OF-WAY USER . A Person owning or controlling a
Facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a Facility in the
right-of-way, that is used or is intended to be used for transporting
telecommunication or other voice or data information. For purposes of this
chapter, a cable communication system defined and regulated under M.S. Chapter
238, as it may be amended from time to time, and telecommunication activities
related to providing natural gas or electric energy Services whether provided
by a public utility as defined in M.S. § 216B.02, as it may be amended from
time to time, a municipality, a municipal gas or power agency organized under
M.S. Chapters 453 and 453A, as they may be amended from time to time or a
cooperative electric association organized under M.S. Chapter 308A, as it may
be amended from time to time, are not TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USER S
for purposes of this chapter.
   TEMPORARY SURFACE. The compaction of subgrade and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing Pavement only to the edges of the
excavation. It is TEMPORARY in nature except when the replacement is of
Pavement included in the City's two-year plan, in which case it is considered
full Restoration.
   TRENCH. An excavation in the Pavement, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the Pavement.
   TWO-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the City for construction
within the next two years.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole that is used in whole or in part to facilitate
telecommunications or electric Service.
   WIRELESS FACILITY . Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision
of Wireless Services between user Equipment and a Wireless Service network,
including Equipment associated with Wireless Service, a radio transceiver,
antenna, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and a
Small Wireless Facility, but not including Wireless Support Structures,
wireline backhaul Facilities, or cables between Utility Poles or Wireless
Support Structures, or not otherwise immediately adjacent to and directly
associated with a specific antenna.
   WIRELESS SERVICE. Any Service using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or by means
of a Manufactured device, that is provided using wireless Facilities. Wireless
Service does not include Services regulated under Title VI of the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, including cable Service.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure in a right-of-way
designed to support or capable of supporting small wireless Facilities, as
reasonably determined by the City.
§ 90.004 ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY.
   The City Clerk-Administrator is the principal City official responsible for
the administration of the rights-of-way, right-of-way Permits and the
ordinances related thereto. The City Clerk-Administrator may delegate any or
all of the duties hereunder.
REGISTRATION AND OCCUPANCY
§ 90.020 REGISTRATION REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Registration. Each Person who occupies, uses, or seeks to occupy or
use, the right-of-way or place any Equipment or Facilities in or on the right-
of-way, including Persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by
lease, sublease, or assignment, must register with the City. Registration will
consist of providing application information and paying a registration fee.
   (B)   Registration prior to work. No Person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any Facilities or any
part thereof in any right-of-way without first being registered with the City.
   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the
provisions of a City ordinance Permitting Persons to plant or maintain
boulevard plantings or gardens in the area of the right-of-way between their
property and the street curb. Persons planting or maintaining boulevard
plantings or gardens shall not be deemed to use or occupy the right-of-way, and
shall not be required to obtain any Permits or satisfy any other requirements
for planting or maintaining such boulevard plantings or gardens under this
chapter. However, nothing herein relieves a Person from complying with the
provisions of M.S. Chapter 216D, Gopher One-Call Law, as it may be amended from
time to time.
§ 90.021 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Information required. Registration shall be requested on an
application by the City. The information provided to the City at the time of
registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Each Registrant's name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and email address if applicable and telephone numbers;
      (2)   The name, address, and e-mail address, if applicable and telephone
numbers of a Local Representative. The Local Representative or designee shall
be available at all times. Current information regarding how to contact the
Local Representative in an Emergency shall be provided at the time of
registration; and
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
Registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or a
form of self insurance acceptable to the City;
         (b)   Verifying that the Registrant is insured against claims for
Personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
            (1). Use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the Registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and Permittees; and
            (2). Placement and use of Facilities and Equipment in the right-of-
way by the Registrant, its officers, agents, employees, and Permittees,
including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising from
completed operations, damage of underground Facilities and collapse of
property.
         (c)   Naming the City as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the City be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term;
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the City in amounts sufficient to protect the City and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this chapter;
         (f)   The City may require a copy of the actual insurance policies;
         (g)   If the Person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate
required to be filed as recorded and certified to by the Secretary of State;
and
         (h)   A copy of the Person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the State Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or federal
agency, where the Person is lawfully required to have such certificate from
said Commission or other state or federal agency.
Any other information deemed necessary to adequately protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the City.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The Registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the City information as to
changes within 15 days following the date on which the Registrant has knowledge
of any change.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.022 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Operations. Each Registrant shall, at the time of registration and by
December 1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan for
underground Facilities with the City. Such plan shall be submitted using a
format designated by the City and shall contain the information determined by
the City to be necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the
frequency of excavations and Obstructions of rights-of-way.
      (1)   The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
         (a)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of
all projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
"next-year project"); and
         (b)   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated
beginning and ending dates
for all projects contemplated for the five years following the next calendar
year (in this section, a "five-year project").
      (2)   The term "project" in this section shall include both next-year
projects and five-year projects.
      (3)   By January 1 of each year, the City will have available for
inspection in the City's office a composite list of all projects of which the
City has been informed of the annual plans. All Registrants are responsible for
keeping themselves informed of the current status of this list.
      (4)   Thereafter, by February 1, each Registrant may change any project
in its list of next-year projects, and must notify the City and all other
Registrants of all such changes in said list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
Registrant may at any time join in a next-year project of another Registrant
listed by the other Registrant.
   (B)   Additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City
will not deny an application for a right-of-way Permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the City if the Registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
PERMITS, OBLIGATIONS, AND INSPECTIONS
§ 90.035 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this code, no Person may Obstruct or
Excavate any right-of-way, or install or place Facilities in the right-of way,
without first having obtained the appropriate right-of-way Permit from the City
to do so.
   (A)   Excavation Permit. An Excavation Permit is required by a Registrant to
Excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such Permit and to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
Facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
   (B)   Obstruction Permit. An Obstruction Permit is required by a Registrant
to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-of-way by
placing Equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the extent and for
the duration specified therein. An Obstruction Permit is not required if a
Person already possesses a valid Excavation Permit for the same project.
   (C)   Small Wireless Facility Permit. A Small Wireless Facility Permit is
required by a Registrant to erect or install a Wireless Support Structure, to
Collocate a Small Wireless Facility, or to otherwise install a Small Wireless
Facility in the specified portion or the right-of-way, to the extent specified
therein, provided that such Permit shall remain in effect for the length of
time the Facility is in use, unless lawfully revoked.
§ 90.036 PERMIT EXTENSIONS.
   No Person may Excavate Obstruct the right-of-way beyond the date or dates
specified in the Permit unless such Person makes a Supplementary Application
for another right-of-way Permit before the expiration of the initial Permit,
and a new Permit or Permit extension is granted.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.037 DELAY PENALTY.
   In accordance with Minn. Rules, part 7819.1000 subp. 3 and notwithstanding §
90.036 above, the City shall establish and impose a Delay Penalty for
unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation, Obstruction, Patching or
Restoration. The Delay Penalty shall be in accordance with the current City fee
schedule, as amended.
§ 90.038 DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   Permits issued under this chapter shall be conspicuously displayed or
otherwise available at all times at the indicated work site and shall be
available for inspection by the City.
Penalty, see §
10.99.
§ 90.039 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a Permit is made to the City on forms approved by the
City.
   (B)   Right-of-way Permit applications shall contain, and will be considered
complete only upon compliance with the requirements of the following
provisions:
      (1)   Registration with the City pursuant to this chapter;
      (2)   Submission of a completed Permit application form including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed Facilities
and all other information deemed relevant by the City;
      (3)   Payment of money due the City for:
         (a)   Permit fees, estimated Restoration Costs and other Management
Costs which shall be established in accordance with the current City fee
schedule, as amended;
         (b)   Prior Obstructions or excavations;
         (c)   Any undisputed loss, damage or expense suffered by the City
because of Applicant's prior excavations or Obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any Emergency actions taken by the City; and
         (d)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
      (4)   Payment of disputed amounts due the City by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least 110% of the amount
owing; and
      (5)   Posting an additional or larger Construction Performance Bond for
additional Facilities when Applicant requests an Excavation Permit to install
additional Facilities and the City deems the existing Construction Performance
Bond inadequate under applicable standards.
§ 90.040 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the Applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the City shall issue a Permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The City may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the Permit and the performance of the Applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or, when necessary, to protect the
right-of-way and its current use. In addition, a Permittee shall comply with
all requirements of local, state, and federal laws, including but not limited
to Minn. Stat. §§ 216D.01 - .09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and
Minn. R., Ch. 7560.
   (C)   Small Wireless Facility Conditions
      In addition to subdivision 2, the erection or installation of a Wireless
Support Structure, the collocation of a Small Wireless Facility, or other
installation of a Small Wireless Facility in the right-of-way, shall be subject
to the following conditions:
         (a)   A Small Wireless Facility shall only be Collocated on the
particular Wireless Support Structure, under those attachment specifications,
and at the height indicated in the applicable Permit application.
         (b)   No new Wireless Support Structure installed within the right-of-
way shall exceed 50 feet in height without the City's written authorization,
provided that the City may impose a lower height limit in the applicable Permit
to protect the public health, safety and welfare or to protect the right-of-way
and its current use, and further provided that a Registrant may replace an
existing Wireless Support Structure exceeding 50 feet in height with a
structure of the same height subject to such conditions or requirements as may
be imposed in the applicable Permit.
         (c)   No Wireless Facility may extend more than 10 feet above its
Wireless Support Structure.
         (d)   Where an Applicant proposes to install a new Wireless Support
Structure in the right-of-way, the City may impose separation requirements
between such structure and any existing Wireless Support Structure or other
Facilities in and around the right-of-way.
         (e)   Where an Applicant proposes collocation on a decorative Wireless
Support Structure, sign or other structure not intended to support small
wireless Facilities, such Equipment shall be consistent with the City's
aesthetic standards regarding wireless Equipment as adopted by the City
Engineer. Such standards shall ensure that wireless Equipment is installed with
a stealth design and that Equipment does not detract from the character of the
area in which it is installed. In addition, the City Engineer shall adopt
standards that ensure City assets can continue to effectively perform their
intended function. Standards shall be made available with the application
required for a small cell Permit.
         (f)   Where an Applicant proposes to replace a Wireless Support
Structure, the City may impose reasonable restocking, replacement, or
relocation requirements on the replacement of such structure.
         (g)   A Permit will be deemed void if the approved Equipment is not
installed within one year of issuance of the Permit.
   (D)   Small Wireless Facility Agreement. A Small Wireless Facility shall
only be Collocated on a small Wireless Support Structure owned or controlled by
the City, or any other City asset in the right-of-way, after the Applicant has
executed a standard Small Wireless Facility collocation agreement with the
City. The standard collocation agreement may require payment of the following:
         (a)   Up to $150 per year for rent to Collocate on the City structure.
         (b)   $25 per year for maintenance associated with the collocation;
         (c)   A monthly fee for electrical Service as follows:
      (1)   $73 per radio node less than or equal to 100 maximum watts;
      (2)   $182 per radio node over 100 maximum watts; or
      (3)   The actual costs of electricity, if the actual cost exceed the
foregoing.
   The standard collocation agreement shall be in addition to, and not in lieu
of, the required Small Wireless Facility Permit, provided, however, that the
Applicant shall not be additionally required to obtain a license or franchise
in order to Collocate. Issuance of a Small Wireless Facility Permit does not
supersede, alter, or affect any then-existing agreement between the City and
Applicant,
   (E)   Action on Small Wireless Facility Permit Applications.
      (1)   Deadline for Action. The City shall approve or deny a Small
Wireless Facility Permit application within 90 days after filing of such
application or within any timeline established by state law. The Small Wireless
Facility Permit, and any associated building Permit application, shall be
deemed approved if the City fails to approve or deny the application within the
review periods established in this section.
      (2)   Consolidated Applications. An Applicant may file a consolidated
Small Wireless Facility Permit application addressing the proposed collocation
of up to 15 small wireless Facilities, or a greater number if agreed to by a
local government unit, provided that all small wireless Facilities in the
application:
         (a)   are located within a two-mile radius;
         (b)   consist of substantially similar Equipment; and
         (c)   are to be placed on similar types of Wireless Support
Structures.
   In rendering a decision on a consolidated Permit application, the City may
approve some small wireless Facilities and deny others, but may not use denial
of one or more Permits as a basis to deny all Small Wireless Facilities in the
application.
      (3)   Tolling of Deadline. The 90-day deadline for action on a Small
Wireless Facility Permit application may be tolled if:
         (a)   The City receives applications from one or more Applicant's
seeking approval of Permits for more than 30 small wireless Facilities within a
seven-day period. In such case, the City may extend the deadline for all such
applications by 30 days by informing the affected Applicants in writing of such
extension.
         (b)   The Applicant fails to submit all required documents or
information and the City provides written notice of incompleteness to the
Applicant within 30 days of receipt the application. Upon submission of
additional documents or information, the City shall have ten days to notify the
Applicant in writing of any still-missing information.
         (c)   The City and a Small Wireless Facility Applicant agree in
writing to toll the review period.
§ 90.041 PERMIT FEES.
   The City Council may from time to time establish, by way of resolution, fees
for Permits issued pursuant to this chapter. In accordance with requirements of
Minn. Rule 7819.1000 as it may be amended from time to time.
   (A)   Excavation Permit Fee. The City shall establish an Excavation Permit
Fee in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs in accordance with
the current City fee schedule as amended:
      (1)   The City Management Costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction Permit Fee. The City shall establish the Obstruction
Permit Fee and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the City Management
Costs in accordance with the current City fee schedule, as amended.
   (C)   Small Wireless Facility Permit Fee. The City shall impose a Small
Wireless Facility Permit fee in an amount sufficient to recover:
      (1)   Management Costs, and;
      (2)   City engineering, make-ready, and construction costs associated
with collocation of small wireless Facilities.
   (D)   Payment of Permit fees. No Excavation Permit, Obstruction Permit, or
small cell Permit shall be issued without payment of all required fees. The
City may allow Applicant to pay such fees within 30 days of billing.
   (E)   Non-refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a Permit that the City
has revoked for a breach as stated in §
90.051 are not refundable.
   (F)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
Management Costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a Right-Of-Way User in the franchise.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.042 EXCAVATION PERMIT; PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the Excavation Permit, and the
Patching and Restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the Permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
Permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonable or unreasonable under §
90.046.
   (B)   Patch and Restoration. Permittee shall Patch its own work. The City
may choose either to have the Permittee Restore the right-of-way or to Restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City Restoration. If the City Restores the right-of-way, Permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If, following such
Restoration, the Pavement settles due to Permittee's improper backfilling, the
Permittee shall pay to the City, within 30 days of billing, all costs
associated with correcting the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee Restoration. If the Permittee Restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an Excavation Permit post a
Construction Performance Bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules,
part 7819.3000.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of Restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
Restoration, a Right-Of-Way User may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the Right-Of-Way User shall remain responsible for Patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The Permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
Patching and Restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the City and shall comply with Minn. Rules, part 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The Permittee shall correct defects in
Patching, or Restoration performed by Permittee or its agents. The Permittee,
upon notification from the City, shall correct all Restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the City. Said work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the City,
not including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonable or
unreasonable under §
90.047.
   (E)   Failure to Restore. If the Permittee fails to Restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the City, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all Restoration required by the City, the
City at its option may do such work. In that event the Permittee shall pay to
the City, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
Permittee fails to pay as required, the City may exercise its rights under the
Construction Performance Bond.
§ 90.043 JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Joint application. Registrants may jointly apply for Permits to
Excavate or Obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   Shared fees. Registrants who apply for Permits for the same
Obstruction or excavation, which the City does not perform, may share in the
payment of the Obstruction or Excavation Permit Fee. In order to obtain a joint
Permit, Registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each will pay
and indicate the same on their applications.
   (C)   With City projects. Registrants who join in a scheduled Obstruction or
excavation performed by the City, whether or not it is a joint application by
two or more Registrants or a single application, are not required to pay the
excavation or Obstruction and degradation portions of the Permit fee, but a
Permit would still be required.
§ 90.044 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way Permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the Permit. No Permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the Permit, except as provided herein. Any
Permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
Permit must be Obstructed or Excavated must before working in that greater area
make application for a Permit extension and pay any additional fees required
thereby, and be granted a new Permit or Permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way Permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the Permit. No Permittee may begin its work before the Permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a Permittee does not finish the work by the Permit end date, it must apply
for a new Permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new Permit
or an extension of the old Permit before working after the end date of the
previous Permit. This Supplementary Application must be submitted before the
Permit end date.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.045 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. Obtaining a right-of-way Permit does not
relieve Permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary Permits, licenses,
and authority and to pay all fees required by the City or other applicable
rule, law, or regulation. A Permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, state, and federal laws, including M.S. §§ 216D.01 through 216D.09, as
it may be amended from time to time (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System).
A Permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all applicable codes and
established rules and regulations, and is responsible for all work done in the
right-of-way pursuant to its Permit, regardless of who does the work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an Emergency, and with the approval of the
City, no right-of-way Obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way. A Permittee shall not so Obstruct
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those
doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a Permit
area, unless parked in conformance with City parking regulations. The loading
or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined Permit area
unless specifically authorized by the Permit.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.046 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The City may deny a Permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this chapter or if the City determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use and any City asset or Facility.
   The denial or revocation of a Permit must be made in writing and must
document the basis for the denial. The City must notify the Applicant or Right-
Of-Way User in writing within three business days of the decision to deny or
revoke a Permit. If an application is denied, the Right-Of-Way User may address
the reasons for denial identified by the City and resubmit its application. If
the application is resubmitted within 30 days of receipt of the notice of
denial, no additional application fee shall be imposed. The City must approve
or deny the resubmitted application within 30 days after submission.
§ 90.047 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, Patching and Restoration and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules,
parts 7819.1100 and 7819.5000 and other applicable local requirements, in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163, as they
may be amended from time to time. Installation of Service laterals shall be
performed in accordance with Minn. R., Ch 7560 and these ordinances. Service
lateral installation is further subject to those requirements and conditions
set forth by the City in the applicable Permits and/or agreements referenced in
Section 1.23 subd. 2 of this ordinance.
§ 90.048 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any Permit hereunder is
completed, the Permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
the Minn. Rules, part 7819.1300.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work-site available to the
City and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of City Clerk-Administrator.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the City Clerk-Administrator may order
the immediate cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life,
health, safety or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The City Clerk-Administrator may issue an order to the Permittee
for any work which does not conform to the terms of the Permit or other
applicable standards, conditions, or codes.
         (a)   The order shall state that failure to correct the violation will
be cause for revocation of the Permit.
         (b)   Within ten days after issuance of the order, the Permittee shall
present proof to the City Clerk-Administrator that the violation has been
corrected.
         (c)   If such proof has not been presented within the required time,
the City Clerk-Administrator may revoke the Permit pursuant to §
90.051(B).
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.049 WORK DONE WITHOUT PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.
      (1)   Each Registrant shall immediately notify the City Clerk-
Administrator of any event regarding its Facilities which it considers to be an
Emergency. The Registrant may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to
respond to the Emergency. Excavators' notification to Gopher State One Call
regarding an Emergency situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two
business days after the occurrence of the Emergency, the Registrant shall apply
for the necessary Permits, pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the
rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this
chapter for the actions it took in response to the Emergency.
      (2)   If the City becomes aware of an Emergency regarding a Registrant's
Facilities, the City will attempt to contact the Local Representative of each
Registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the Emergency. In any event,
the City may take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the
Emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the Registrant whose Facilities
occasioned the Emergency.
      (1)   Non-Emergency situations. Except in an Emergency, any Person who,
without first having obtained the necessary Permit, Obstructs, or Excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a Permit, and as a penalty pay double the
normal fee for said Permit, pay double all the other fees required by the City
code, deposit with the City the fees necessary to correct any damage to the
right-of-way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99.
§ 90.050 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the Obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the Permit, Permittee shall notify the City of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
Penalty, see §
10.99.
§ 90.051 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The City reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way Permit, without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the Permit. A substantial breach by
Permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way Permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way Permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the City or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way Permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; unless a
Permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the Permittee's control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
90.048.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the City determines that the Permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation, or any condition of the Permit the City shall make
a written demand upon the Permittee to remedy such violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the Permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the City, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the Permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, the Permittee shall provide the City with a plan,
acceptable to the City, that will cure the breach. The Permittee's failure to
so contact the City, or the Permittee's failure to timely submit an acceptable
plan, or the Permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan,
shall be cause for immediate revocation of the Permit. Further, the Permittee's
failure to so contact the City, or the Permittee's failure to submit an
acceptable plan, or the Permittee's failure to reasonably implement the
approved plan, shall automatically place the Permittee on Probation for one
full year.
   (D)   Cause for Probation. From time to time, the City may establish a list
of conditions of the Permit, which if breached will automatically place the
Permittee on Probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to, working
out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way grossly outside of
the Permit authorization.
   (E)   Automatic revocation. If a Permittee, while on Probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, the Permittee's Permit will automatically be revoked
and the Permittee will not be allowed further Permits for one full year, except
for Emergency repairs.
   (F)   Reimbursement of City costs. If a Permit is revoked, the Permittee
shall also reimburse the City for the City's reasonable costs, including
Restoration Costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with such revocation.
Penalty, see §
10.99.
CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 90.065 MAPPING DATA.
   Each Registrant and Permittee shall provide mapping information required by
the City in accordance with Minn. Rules, parts 7819.4000 and 7819.4100.
   (A)   Information Required. Each Registrant and Permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the City in accordance with Minn. R. 7819.4000
and 7819.4100. Within ninety (90) days following completion of any work
pursuant to a Permit, the Permittee shall provide the City Clerk-Administrator
accurate maps and drawings certifying the "as-built" location of all Equipment
installed, owned, and maintained by the Permittee. Such maps and drawings shall
include the horizontal and vertical location of all Facilities and Equipment
and shall be provided consistent with the City's electronic mapping system,
when practical or as a condition imposed by the City Clerk-Administrator.
Failure to provide maps and drawings pursuant to this subsection shall be
grounds for revoking the Permit holder's registration.
   (B)   Service Laterals. All Permits issued for the installation or repair of
Service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. R. 7560.0150,
subp. 2, shall require the Permittee's use of appropriate means of establishing
the horizontal locations of installed Service laterals and the Service lateral
vertical locations in those cases where the City Clerk-Administrator reasonably
requires it. Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the City Clerk-
Administrator evidence satisfactory to the City Clerk-Administrator of the
installed Service lateral locations. Compliance with this subdivision 2 and
with applicable Gopher State One Call law and Minnesota Rules governing Service
laterals installed after Dec. 31, 2005, shall be a condition of any City
approval necessary for:
      a)   payments to contractors working on a public improvement project,
including those under Minn. Stat. Ch. 429, and
      b)   City approval under development agreements or other subdivision or
site plan approval under Minn. Stat. Ch. 462. The City Clerk-Administrator
shall reasonably determine the appropriate method of providing such information
to the City. Failure to provide prompt and accurate information on the Service
laterals installed may result in the revocation of the Permit issued for the
work or future Permits to the offending Permittee or its subcontractors.
§ 90.066 LOCATION, RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Placement, location, and relocation. Placement, location, and
relocation of Facilities must comply with M.S. §§ 237.16, 237.162, 237.163,
237.79, 237.81 and 238.086, as they may be amended from time to time, with
other applicable law, and with Minn. Rules, parts 7819.3100, 7819.5000 and
7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available
to cities.
   (B)   Corridors.
      (1)   The City may assign specific areas within the right-of-way, or any
particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of Facilities
that is or, pursuant to current technology, the City expects will someday be
located within the right-of-way. All excavation, Obstruction or other Permits
issued by the City involving the installation or replacement of Facilities
shall designate the proper corridor for the Facilities at issue.
      (2)   Any Registrant who has Facilities in the right-of-way in a position
at variance with the corridors established by the City shall, no later than at
the time of the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the
Facilities are located, move the Facilities to the assigned position within the
right-of-way, unless this requirement is waived by the City for good cause
shown, upon consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the
Facilities, public safety, customer Service needs and hardship to the
Registrant.
   (C)   Nuisance. One year after the passage of this chapter, any Facilities
found in a right-of-way that have not been registered shall be deemed to be a
nuisance. The City may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in
equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or taking
possession of the Facilities and restoring the right-of-way to a useable
condition.
   (D)   Limitation of space. To protect health, safety, and welfare or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the City shall have
the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional Facilities
within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the City shall strive to the
extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-
of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest,
the public's needs for the particular Utility Service, the condition of the
right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the
protection of existing Facilities in the right-of-way and future City plans for
public improvements and development projects which have been determined to be
in the public interest.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.067 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. §§ 216D.01 through
216D.09, as they may be amended from time to time, ("One Call Excavation Notice
System") before the start date of any right-of-way excavation, each Registrant
who has Facilities or Equipment in the area to be Excavated shall mark the
horizontal and vertical placement of all said Facilities. Any Registrant whose
Facilities are less than 20 inches below a concrete or asphalt surface shall
notify and work closely with the excavation contractor to establish the exact
location of its Facilities and the best procedure for excavation.
Penalty, see §
10.99.
§ 90.068 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the City does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support or move a Registrant's Facilities to protect it, the City
shall notify the Local Representative as early as is reasonably possible. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to that Registrant and must be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing. Each Registrant shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any Facilities in the right-of-way which it or its
Facilities damages. Each Registrant shall be responsible for the cost of
repairing any damage to the Facilities of another Registrant caused during the
City's response to an Emergency occasioned by that Registrant's Facilities.
Penalty, see §
10.99.
§ 90.069 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the City vacates a right-of-way which contains the Facilities of a
Registrant, the Registrant's rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules, part 7819.3200.
   Residents may make application to the City for vacation of the right-of-way
may be made at City Hall upon payment of the designated fee in accordance with
the current City fee schedule, as amended.
Penalty, see §
10.99.
§ 90.070 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By registering with the City, or by accepting a Permit under this chapter, a
Registrant or Permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the City in accordance
with the provisions of Minn. Rules, part 7819.1250.
§ 90.071 ABANDONED, UNUSEABLE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A Registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the City must provide
information satisfactory to the City that the Registrant's obligations for its
Facilities in the right-of-way under this chapter have been lawfully assumed by
another Registrant.
   (B)   Removal. Any Registrant who has Abandoned Facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove it from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with
other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement
is waived by the City.
§ 90.072 APPEAL
   A Right-Of-Way User that:
   (A)   has been denied registration;
   (B)   has been denied a Permit;
   (C)   has had a Permit revoked;
   (D)   believes that the fees imposed are not in conformity with Minn. Stat.
§ 237.163, subd. 6; or;
   (E)   disputes a determination of the City Clerk-Administrator regarding
Section 1.24, subd. 2 of this ordinance may have the denial, revocation, fee
imposition, or decision reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council.
   The City Council shall act on a timely written request at its next regularly
scheduled meeting, provided the Right-Of-Way User has submitted its appeal with
sufficient time to include the appeal as a regular agenda item. A decision by
the City Council affirming the denial, revocation, or fee imposition will be in
writing and supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of
the decision.
§ 90.073 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS
   A Permittee's rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
City to adopt and enforce general ordinances as necessary to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the public.
Penalty, see §
10.99.
CHAPTER 91: PARKS AND RECREATION; WATERCRAFT
Section
   
91.01   Use of hoists, Mooring, and Docking
   
91.02   Docking and Mooring Minimum Standards
   
91.03   Watercraft restricted area
   
91.04   Public parks; hours and uses
§ 91.01 USE OF HOISTS, MOORING, AND DOCKING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   BOAT/WATERCRAFT. Any object or structure capable of being propelled through
and/or over the water by motor or wind while carrying one or more persons
including, but not limited to, Boats, surf boards, canoes, rows, sailboats, or
speedboats.
   DOCK. A structure extending out from shore into a body of water, to which
Boats may be Moored.
   GRANDFATHERED USE. A Docking/Mooring use that existed before the U.S. Army
Corps. Of Engineer agreement, which is recognized by the city.
   MOOR. To secure a Boat in a particular place, as by cables, anchors, or by
lines.
   RESIDENT. A Resident is an individual who is in occupancy of property, at a
minimum, from June 1 to September 1 of the current year.
   (B)   Docking/Mooring Permit required. No person shall Moor watercraft, use
private Boat, Docks, or hoists, or install Mooring buoy or Dock structures
along the city's shoreland designated parkland without first securing a permit
from the city. A Docking/Mooring Permit is a privilege, not a right.
      (1)   Application. Permits shall be made by a Resident. An application
for a Docking/Mooring Permit shall be submitted to the city on a form provided
by the city and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Certificate of Liability Insurance demonstrating applicant
holding a minimum of $500,000 Boat insurance with the City named as a
certificate holder as related to watercraft, Boats, Docks, and Moorings.
         (b)   Certificate of Liability Insurance demonstrating Applicant
holding a minimum of $500,000 Docking/Mooring insurance. This may be under the
Applicant's homeowner insurance policy if scheduled.
         (c)   The above Certificates of Liability Insurance for all listed Co-
Owners of a Boat.
         (d)   A Docking/Mooring plans.
            1.   Mooring plan requirements. A Mooring plan must meet minimum
requirements of all authorized state and federal agencies. In such event that
there exists no clear requirements, the text of Piloting, Seamanship, and Small
Boat Handling by Chapman will be used as a standard.
            2.   Dock plan requirements. Docks or Boat hoists will be
constructed in such a fashion that they are structurally sound and
aesthetically congruent with the environment. Each structure must clearly
display the city permit decal.
         (e)   Other information the city may require.
            Persons holding a Docking/Mooring Permit shall inform the City
Clerk Administrator of any change in the information requested on the
application within ten business days after any such change.
         An Applicant must submit a Docking/Mooring Permit application by March
15 of each year to the City Clerk-Administrator, accompanied with the
designated fees.
         The Docking/Mooring Permit application must be reviewed by the Park
Technical Committee and the Park Board before final submission to the City
Council for approval.
      (2)   Conditions.
         (a)   Docking/Mooring Permit is for one Boat and one structure, either
a Mooring buoy or a Dock.
         (b)   The Park Technical Committee manages the placement of Docks and
buoys in the Shoreland Park under the direction of the Park Board and City
Council. Once a Docking/Mooring Permit is issued, the permit holder will be
offered the next available location according to the placement chart.
         (c)   Any Mooring, Dock, or hoist must be located no closer than 100
feet from an adjacent Mooring, Dock, or hoist. There shall be no Mooring,
Docks, or hoists located on or in the water bounded by Upper 20th Street South,
and 100 feet north of 19th Street South. Any encroachment of the area
designated as "Swimming Beach" is prohibited.
         (d)   All buoys shall be a minimum of 100 feet apart. Any moving
system must be reset when it floats within 80 feet of another Mooring buoy or
Dock.
         (e)   Docks and access ramps must not exceed 25 feet onto City
Shoreland.
         (f)   Structures cannot be placed within the designated swim beach
area.
         (g)   Removal of Moorings and Docks All Moorings, Docks, hoists,
ramps, and related structures must be removed by non-mechanical means from the
river and Shoreland Park by November 1 of each year or earlier if so, notified
by the Park Technical Committee to the owner of that device.
         (h)   A Docking/Mooring Permit holder must use their structure by June
15. Failure to use a structure by this date may result in revocation of the
Docking/Mooring Permit. The City Council may consider written requests for
exception to this requirement.
         (i)   A non-permit holder may own a Boat with a Docking/Mooring Permit
holder.
         (j)   Multiple Docking/Mooring Permit holders may co-own a Boat
together.
         (k)   Clustering.
            1.   Multiple Docking/Mooring Permit holders may cluster to share
one Dock structure so long as all parties hold a valid Docking/Mooring Permit.
            2.   The cluster arrangement must be approved by the Park Technical
Committee prior to set up.
            3.   If a clustering of Docking/Mooring Permit holders dissolves,
each Docking/Mooring Permit holder can place their own structure, based on
their structure designation in an open location as directed by the Park
Technical Committee.
         (l)   Boat registration. All Boats must be registered in the Applicant
or permit holders name and Lake St. Croix Beach address with the State of
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources (DNR)
            1.   Boats must have their DNR registration number clearly
displayed in accordance with DNR regulations.
            2.   Registration must be kept current.
         (m)   All watercraft must be maintained, safe, and operable for its
intended use.
         (n)   Permit Decal. All Docks, Mooring buoys, and Boats must display
the owner's permit number on a decal issued by the city.
            1.   Fee. Permittees must pay the decal fee. The decal fees for a
Docking/Mooring Permit shall be in accordance with the current city fee
schedule, as amended.
            2.   Placement.
               a.   The decal shall be placed on the upper right-hand corner of
the transom on Boats.
               b.   The decal shall be place on the right-hand corner beach
side of the Dock.
               c.   The decal shall be place visible above the waterline on
buoys.
      (3)   Structures. All Docking or Mooring structures must be constructed
to meet certain minimum standards and maintained in good condition.
      (4)   Docking/Mooring Permit fees and term.
         (a)   The fees for a Docking/Mooring Permit shall be in accordance
with the current city fee schedule, as amended.
         (b)   The fee will be returned to the Applicant if the Docking/Mooring
Permit is denied.
         (c)   All Docking/Mooring Permits shall expire annually on March 31 of
each year.
         (d)   Each Docking/Mooring Permit will be subject to yearly review
before renewal is considered.
         (e)   Residents who have had a Docking/Mooring Permit approved the
previous year, will be given first right to receive a permit during the present
year of application. The renewal fee, application, proof of liability
insurance, and registration must be paid on or before March 15 of each year to
reserve this right. An additional late fee will be charged for applications
received between March 16 and April 15. Failure to submit the complete
application documents and fees on or before April 15 will result in the loss of
first right of refusal and reapplication to be placed on the waiting list will
be required.
         (f)   The city maintains a waiting list for individuals wishing to
receive a Docking/Mooring Permit. When available, Docking/Mooring Permits are
offered to the first individual on the waiting list.
         (g)   Residents desiring to be placed on the waiting list must make
application at city hall accompanied with the designated fee in accordance with
the current city fee schedule, as amended.
         (h)   Individuals desiring a Docking/Mooring Permit shall be placed on
a waitlist as follows:
            1.   Any new Resident applications that are approved by the Park
Technical Committee will be chosen in the following order:
               a.   Those persons who have been on a rank order waiting list
from the previous year; and
               b.   Those new approved Applicant's for the present year. A new
Applicant's rank order will be determined by lottery on April 15.
      (5)   Limit on Number of Docking/Mooring Permit.
         (a)   There are 35 Docking/Mooring Permits available.
         (b)   Only one Docking/Mooring Permit will be granted to any one
household.
         (c)   Grandfathered Docking/Mooring uses recognized by the city are in
addition to the 35 Docking/Mooring Permits.
      (6)   Transferability. If a Docking/Mooring Permit holder relinquishes
their Docking/Mooring Permit, the Docking/Mooring Permit does not transfer to a
non-permitted co-owner of a Boat.
      (7)   Penalty.
         (a)   Failure to comply with §
91.01 (B) may result in loss of the permit or loss of the right to renew the
permit.
         (b)   Any illegal structure or Boat may be removed by the city and the
costs charged to the responsible party.
         (c)   Inspections with be scheduled by the Park Board without notice
to the permit holders.
         (d)   The above penalties are in addition to §
10.99 of this code.
   (C)   Shore Boat Permit required. No storage of a Boat at the base of the
bluff or, at the discretion of the Park Technical Committee, at a designated
distance from the shoreline when not in use is permitted without first
acquiring a Shore Boat Permit.
      (1)   A Resident with a Docking/Mooring Permit whose structure is a Dock
may also receive a Shore Boat Permit.
      (2)   Dock Boats must be stored out of the water, on the Dock or elevated
on an appropriate structure attached to the Dock.
      (3)   Any Resident may receive a Shore Boat Permit without a Boat permit.
      (4)   Dock and Shore Boats may not exceed 16 feet, except canoes and
catamarans.
      (5)   Certificate of Liability Insurance demonstrating applicant holding
a minimum of $500,000 shore/Dock Boat insurance . This may be under the
applicant's homeowner insurance policy if scheduled.
   (D)   Disputes. Any disputes that arise from the provisions of this section
shall be resolved by the Chairperson of the Park Board. If the dispute is not
resolved to all parties' satisfaction, a hearing may be requested before the
City Council. A majority vote of the City Council will be required to resolve
any such dispute.
   (E)   Penalty. See §
10.99
§ 91.02 DOCKS AND MOORING MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   DOCKS.
      (1)   Installation of Docks.
         (a)   Application must be made to the City Clerk-Administrator in
writing for a Dock, regardless of whether the Dock is new construction or used.
The application must include all plans for the installation of a Dock with a
sketch and materials list.
         (b)   The Park Technical Committee shall review the application and
supporting documents and approve or deny the application.
      (2)   Must have all poles secured in the riverbed at all times,
regardless of river level.
      (3)   All treated lumber must be arsenic-free.
      (4)   Dock structures installed after January 1, 2012, shall be built to
the following specifications.
         (a)   Shape and Size. Docks must be a rectangular shape with a width
of 8-10 feet and a length of 30 - 50 feet.
         (b)   Flotation. Must be polyethylene, foam-filled Coast Guard
approved floats. There shall be a minimum of 10 inches of freeboard between the
top surface of the decking and the water.
         (c)   Timber Dock. Docks constructed of timber are subject to the
following requirements:
            1.   Large timbers must be the full length of the Dock.
            2.   One of the following may be used:
               a.   Solid wood poles with a minimum of 9 inches diameter.
               b.   Dimensitional lumber with minimum dimensions of 6 inches by
12 inches.
               c.   Crossbeams with minimum dimensions of 5 inches by 6 inches
by the width of the cross beam. Crossbeams must be bolted through timbers.
         (d)   Steel Dock. Docks constructed of steal are subject to the
following requirements.
            1.   Steel framed Dock must be the full length of the Dock.
            2.   The side frames may be a minimum of 12 inches high.
            3.   Cross beams may be angle or tube cross beams with 2 foot
centers and welded in place.
         (e)   Decking Options.
            1.   2 inches by 6 inches or 2 inches by 8 inches treated, cedar,
or redwood screwed to the main structure.
            2.   Skid Guard ¾ inch marine grade.
            3.   Plastic wood dimension lumber with specific design plans.
            4.   Other products approved by the Park Technical Committee.
         (f)   Dock anchoring system minimum requirements.
            1.   45 foot long or less Dock: four poles with dimensions of 4
inch by 20 feet and 5 inch pipe holders.
            2.   More than 45 foot long Dock: six poles with dimensions of 4
inch by 20 feet and 5 inch pipe holders OR four poles with dimensions of 5 inch
by 20 feet and 6 inch pipe holders.
      (5)   Existing Docks.
         (a)   Decking shall be secured in place with no missing or loose
boards.
         (b)   There shall be a minimum of 10 inches of freeboard between the
top surface of the decking and the water.
         (c)   Flotation. Additional or replacement flotation shall be
installed when necessary. Flotation must be polyethylene, foam-filled, Coast
Guard approved floats.
         (d)   Deteriorating open-cell foam shall be removed.
         (e)   There shall be a minimum of four poles stabilizing the Dock.
Pole diameter must be adequate for the size of Dock to maintain position.
         (f)   When components of existing Dock structures are replaced, they
must comply with the standards of § 91.02 (A) d.
   (B)   MOORING.
      (1)   Installation of Mooring.
         (a)   Application must be made to the City Clerk-Administrator in
writing for a Mooring, regardless of whether the Mooring is new construction or
used. The application must include all plans for the installation of a Mooring
with a sketch and materials list.
         (b)   The Park Technical Committee shall review the application and
supporting documents and approve or deny the application.
      (2)   Mooring structures installed after January 1, 2012, shall be built
to the following specifications:
         (a)   Traditional 3-Anchor System
         (b)   Permanent Anchoring System
         (c)   Mooring Pennant with a minimum of a 5/8 inch line and a second
safety line.
         (d)   Buoys must be Coast Guard Approved.
      (3)   Existing Mooring Structures shall be maintained as follows:
         (a)   Traditional 3-Anchor System
         (b)   Permanent Anchoring System
         (c)   Mooring Pennant with a minimum of a 5/8 inch line and a second
safety line.
         (d)   Buoys must be Coast Guard Approved.
§ 91.03 WATERCRAFT RESTRICTED AREA.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   No person shall operate, land, load, control or possess any watercraft
on that portion of the Lake St. Croix Beach public park or beach located within
an area being described as follows:
      All that area located East of Riviera Avenue South, lying north of the
centerline of Upper 20th Street extended easterly to city's swim buoy lying
south of the easterly extension of a line located 100 feet north of the
centerline of 19th Street South, as extended to the easterly boundary of the
city.
   (C)   The Parks Commission for the city shall place reasonable signage and
buoys in and upon the area to identify same as a "Swimming Beach."
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 PUBLIC PARKS; HOURS, RENTALS, AND USES.
   (A)   Designated City Parks. Pettit Park, Veterans Memorial Park, Riverfront
Park, Shoreland Bluffland Park, and any other City Property designated as
parkland by the City Council from time to time.
   (B)   Hours of use. All city parks and picnic areas (not owned in the name
of the state) and all city beaches within the limits of the city shall be open
for the use of the general public between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (C)   Rentals.
      (1)   Pettitt Park Pavilion. Any person may rent the Pettitt Park
Pavilion for use upon payment of the fee and deposit. The fee and deposit for
such rental shall be in accordance with the current city fee schedule, as
amended.
      (2)   Ballfield. Any person may rent the Ballfield for use upon payment
of the fee and deposit. The fee and deposit for such rental shall be in
accordance with the current city fee schedule, as amended.
      (3)   Riverfront Park Pavilion. Any person may rent the Riverfront Park
Pavilion for use upon payment of the fee and deposit. The fee and deposit for
such rental shall be in accordance with the current city fee schedule, as
amended.
   (D)   Unlawful uses.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to make use of,
frequent or be upon any city park or picnic area (except as otherwise provided
by state laws) or any city beach located within the limits of the city within
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in their possession or
consume any intoxicating liquor upon any city park or picnic area or any city
beach of the city, except at such time as any intoxicating liquor, as defined
in division (B)(3) below, is being sold pursuant to a special permit issued
under the provisions of §
113.048 of the Code and then such liquor may be possessed or consumed only
within the area and during the time specifically permitted by such permit.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Ethyl alcohol and includes distilled, fermented,
spirituous, vinous and malt beverages.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a hot air balloon or
any other aircraft, to use any city park for an unlicensed landing area, for
the purpose of landing or taking off, except as may be specifically authorized
by prior written approval of the City Clerk-Administrator of the city. For the
purposes hereof, M.S. § 360.55, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to
time, and 14 MCAR § 1.3014 A, B, C and D, are hereby adopted by reference and
the provisions thereof shall be applicable and in full force and effect in the
city.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in fishing
activities, specifically casting line with hooks, lures, or related materials
into or upon the waters of Lake St. Croix Beach from the city's Swimming Beach.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs and Cats
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Exemptions
   
92.03   Animal Control Officer
   
92.04   Animal Impound Services
   
92.05   Interference with enforcement
   
92.06   Reserved
   
92.07   Kennels
   
92.08   Rabies inoculation
   
92.09   Animal bites; animals exposed to rabies
   
92.10   Running At Large prohibited
   
92.11   Abandonment prohibited
   
92.12   Nuisances
   
92.13   Potentially Dangerous Dog and Dangerous Dogs
   
92.14   Cruelty
   
92.15   Females in heat
   
92.16   Seizure; impoundment; fees
   
92.17   Sanitation
   
92.18   Coordination with veterinarians
   
92.19   Number of Dogs and Cats allowed
   
92.20   Dogs within an active city park
Chickens
   
92.30   Chicken Keeping
   
92.31   Chicken Keeping Permits
   
92.32   Standards of care, practices, restrictions, and enclosure requirements.
   
92.33   Discontinued Use.
   
92.34   Violations.
 
   
92.98   Constitutionality
   
92.99   Penalty
DOGS AND CATS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONEDABANDONED. To leave a Dog or Cat At Large within the city without
intending to return to or recover it. It shall also mean to purposefully leave
a Dog or Cat in the possession of the Animal Warden to avoid paying impoundment
and/or boarding costs.
   ALTERED. Any female Dog or Cat that has been spayed or any male Dog or Cat
that has been castrated.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The City Council and/or any Persons or agencies
designated by the City Council. The ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER's primary function
involves enforcement of this chapter and other laws dealing with Dogs or Cats.
The ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER shall also be construed to include any licensed law
enforcement officer.
   ANIMAL IMPOUND SERVICE. Any Person or agency designated by the City Council
to house, hold, confine or board Dogs or Cats seized and/or impounded herein.
The ANIMAL INPOUND SERVICE shall be appointed and serve at the pleasure of the
City Council.
   AT LARGE. Off the Premises of the Owner and not under the physical control
(by lease, electronic collar, or by voice command) of the Owner, a member of
the Owner's immediate family, or a Person designated by the Owner.
   CAT. Any animal wholly or in part of the species Felis Domesticus.
   DANGEROUS DOG and POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. The meanings ascribed to those
terms by M.S. § 347.50, as it may be amended from time to time, and
specifically as follows:
   (A)   DANGEROUS DOG. Any Dog that has:
      (1)   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a human
being on public or private property;
      (2)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the Owner's
property; or
      (3)   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the Owner has
noticed that the Dog is potentially dangerous, the Dog aggressively bites,
attacks or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
   (B)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any Dog that:
      (1)   When unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human or domestic animal on
public or private property;
      (2)   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a Person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack; or
      (3)   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack,
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
   (C)   The terms DANGEROUS DOG and POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG shall also be
construed to include similar classifications from other statutes or ordinances
which are substantially in conformity with M.S. § 347.50, as it may be amended
from time to time, whether or not the same words are used.
   DOG. Any animal wholly or in part of the species Canis Familiaris.
   KENNEL - COMMERCIAL. A Kennel where Dogs are bred and/or sold for re-sale,
individually or in litter lots, whether or not any of these animals are also
kept for Personal use. COMMERCIAL KENNELS are also places where Dogs are
boarded, groomed, or trained for a fee.
   KENNEL - HOBBY. A Kennel where Dogs are kept primarily for Personal
companionship, for recreational enjoyment or for performance events in addition
to the purpose of improving the physical soundness and temperament of such
Dogs, and where the breeding and selling of animals is incidental to occupancy
of the Premises for residential purposes, and is not a primary source of
income.
   KENNEL. Any place where four Dogs or more over six months of age are kept,
raised, sold, boarded, bred, shown, treated, or groomed.
   OWNER. Any Person or the parents or guardians of a Person under 18 years of
age who owns, harbors, keeps, or has custody of a Dog or Cat.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, firm, or group, however
organized.
   PREMISES. The space of ground immediately surrounding a dwelling house and/
or outbuildings.
§ 92.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   Except where duties are expressly stated, this subchapter does not apply to
hospitals, clinics and other Premises operated by licensed veterinarians
exclusively for the care and treatment of Dogs or Cats.
§ 92.03 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   The Animal Control Officer shall have legal powers necessary to enforce this
subchapter, all ordinances enacted pursuant to this subchapter and all
statutes, rules, and laws of the State of    Minnesota for the control and
protection of animals, as applicable, including authority to issue complaints
for violations. The City Council shall annually review the work and
compensation of the Animal Control Officer.
§ 92.04 ANIMAL IMPOUND SERVICES.
   The City Council may appoint an Animal Impound Service and establish
compensation for said service. Such Person or agency shall serve at the
pleasure of the City Council. The City Council    shall annually review the
work and compensation of the Animal Impound Service.
§ 92.05 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   No unauthorized Person shall break open the Impound Facility's pound or
attempt to do so, or to take or let out any animals therefrom, or to take or
attempt to take from any Animal Control Officer or Animal Impound Service any
Dog or Cat taken up by them in compliance with the city ordinance or statute,
or in any manner to interfere with or hinder such Animal Control Officer or
Animal Impound Service in the discharge of their duties.
   KENNELS.
   (A)   Commercial Kennels. It shall be unlawful to operate a commercial
Kennel.
   (B)   Hobby Kennels. Hobby Kennels may be permitted in those zoning
districts as specified in
Chapter 157. The fees for such permit shall be in accordance with the fee
schedule, as amended.
   Penalty, see §
92.99.
§ 92.06 RESERVED.
§ 92.07 RABIES INOCULATION.
   (A)   All Dogs or Cats in the city over the age of six months shall be
inoculated for rabies and shall be re-inoculated according to standard
veterinary practices thereafter. Such vaccination must be performed by or under
the direct supervision of a veterinarian duly licensed to practice veterinary
medicine in the state in which the vaccine is administered. A certificate from
the veterinarian inoculating said Dogs or Cats shall be exhibited to the Animal
Control Officer and/or Animal Impound Service upon demand.
   (B)   Each Dog or Cat shall wear a sturdy collar for aid in identification
with the veterinarian's metal tag showing proof of said current rabies
inoculation. At the Owner's discretion, a tattoo or implanted microchip may be
used in lieu of the collar and tag.
   (C) The city can request, at any time, proof of current rabies inoculation
from Dogs' or Cats' Owner.
Penalty, see §
92.99.
§ 92.08 ANIMAL BITES; ANIMALS EXPOSED TO RABIES.
   (A)   Pursuit of biting Dog authorized. Any law enforcement officer or
Animal Control Officer    may enter upon the private property of any Person
(but not within any residential structure) while in pursuit of any Dog or Cat
under probable cause to believe that such Dog or Cat has bitten a Person or
animal.
   (B)   Quarantine required. Division (A) above notwithstanding, whenever any
Person who owns, possesses, or harbors any Dog or Cat within the City learns
that the Dog or Cat has    bitten any human being or domestic animal, such
Person shall immediately quarantine    such Dog or Cat, for a period of at
least ten days, keeping it apart from other animals    until it is determined
whether the Dog or Cat has rabies. Such Person shall, also, immediately contact
the Washington County Sheriff's Office. A Washington County Sheriff Deputy and/
or the Animal Control Authority will determine the current rabies vaccination
status of the biting animal.
   (C)   Quarantine Order. If the animal is current on the rabies vaccination
(not expired) the Quarantine order shall instruct the Owner of the animal to
quarantine the animal in-home for a period of ten (10) days. If the Dog or Cat
does not have a current rabies vaccination at the time the bite occurred, the
Dog or Cat must be impounded at a licensed Animal Impound Service or with a
licensed veterinarian at the Owner's expense.
   (D)   Documentation and Examination. Upon request, the Owner of the Dog or
Cat must provide documentation of the location of the Dog to the Animal Control
Authority. After    the required ten-day quarantine, the Dog or Cat shall be
examined by a licensed     veterinarian to ensure that there are no clinical
signs of rabies. If the Dog or Cat is found    to be rabid, it shall be
humanely euthanized and sent to an appropriate facility for rabies    testing.
   (E)   Impoundment of biting Dog or Cat. If the Dog or Cat Owner cannot be
located or advised of the Dog or Cat bite within two hours of the occurrence,
or if the Owner fails to    quarantine the Dog or Cat as required by this
subchapter, the Animal Control Officer shall cause the Dog or Cat to be
impounded and so quarantined. After the required ten-day quarantine, if the Dog
or Cat is still unclaimed, the Dog or Cat shall be humanely euthanized and
tested for rabies.
   (F)   Verification of quarantine. The Animal Impound Service, Animal Control
Officer or other designate of the City shall have the authority to verify if
the Dog or Cat is properly    quarantined and to instruct any veterinarian
quarantining an animal to notify the Animal    Control Officer and City
designate before the release of such animal.
   (G)   Rabies exposure. Any Dog or Cat known to have been bitten by a rabid
Dog or Cat or    exposed to rabies shall be impounded. If, however, the Dog or
Cat is At Large and cannot    be apprehended after reasonable effort, the Dog
or Cat may be immediately destroyed.     After impoundment, if proof of rabies
immunization is furnished and booster injections    are given by a licensed
veterinarian at the expense of the Owner, the Dog or Cat may be released to the
Owner as specified in §
92.15 of this subchapter. If it cannot be proven    that the animal has a
current rabies immunization, the Owner may, at his or her discretion, make
provision for a suitable quarantine for a period of not less than six months.
§ 92.09 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED
   (A)   No Person shall allow a Dog or Cat to run At Large at any time.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the animal control authority or any of his/her
duly authorized assistants, or any peace officer, or any Person duly authorized
in writing by the animal control authority, to capture, seize and deliver to
the city's animal control center, or to    any suitable place to be approved by
the animal control authority, any animal found    running At Large within the
city contrary to the provisions of this chapter and any Dog    found within the
city not wearing the metal tag provided for in this    chapter in violation of
the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   All animals conveyed to the animal control center shall be kept, with
kind treatment and    sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least
five (5) days after the impounding    thereof, unless sooner reclaimed by their
Owners as herein provided. Animals seized under this subdivision may be
released from the animal control center upon payment by such Owner of the sums
required by the animal control center and animal control    authority for
impounding, boarding and veterinary care. Said payments shall be made to the
animal control authority, in return for which the Owner shall receive from the
animal control center a receipt showing that the fees have been paid.
   (D)   If the Owner of the animal seized or impounded under the provisions of
this chapter does not resume possession of said animal by compliance with the
foregoing provisions within five (5) days after the seizure or impounding
thereof, said Owner shall forfeit all right of property in such animal.
§ 92.10 ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED.
No Person shall abandon any Dog or Cat within the city.
Penalty, see §92.99.
§ 92.11 NUISANCES.
   (A)   No Person shall allow a Dog or Cat to run At Large at any time.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the animal control authority or any of his/her
duly authorized assistants, or any peace officer, or any Person duly authorized
in writing by the animal control authority, to capture, seize and deliver to
the city's animal control center, or to    any suitable place to be approved by
the animal control authority, any animal found running At Large within the city
contrary to the provisions of this chapter and any Dog    found within the city
not wearing the metal tag provided for in this chapter in violation of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)      All animals conveyed to the animal control center shall be kept,
with kind treatment and    sufficient food and water for their comfort, at
least five (5) days after the impounding thereof, unless sooner reclaimed by
their Owners as herein provided. Animals seized under this subdivision may be
released from the animal control center upon payment by such Owner of the sums
required by the animal control center and animal control authority for
impounding, boarding and veterinary care. Said payments shall be made to the
animal control authority, in return for which the Owner shall receive from the
animal control center a receipt showing that the fees have been paid.
   (D)   If the Owner of the animal seized or impounded under the provisions of
this chapter does not resume possession of said animal by compliance with the
foregoing provisions within five (5) days after the seizure or impounding
thereof, said Owner shall forfeit all    right of property in such animal.
§ 92.12 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS AND DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG DESIGNATION. The Washington County Sheriff
shall designate    any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence that the animal meets the definition under Minn. Stat. §§347.50 Subd.
(3).
      (1)   Potentially dangerous dog restrictions:
         (a)   Registration required. No Person may keep a Potentially
Dangerous Dog in the city    unless the Dog is registered with the City Clerk/
Administrator as provided in this section.    The animal control authority
shall issue a certificate of registration as the party required    to maintain
registration, and Owner should present the certificate of registration to the
   City Clerk/Administrator from the animal control authority in order to
register the    animal in the City. Owner of a Potentially Dangerous Dog must
provide the following    information.
         (b)   Microchip. The Owner has had a microchip identification
implanted in the potentially    Dangerous Dog and the name of the microchip
manufacturer and identification number    of the microchip must be provided to
the animal control authority. If the microchip is    not implanted by the
Owner, it may be implanted by the animal control authority with    the costs
borne by the Dog's Owner.
         (c)   Warning symbol. The Owner has posted a warning symbol to inform
children that there    is a Potentially Dangerous Dog on the property. The
design of the warning symbol must have been approved by the Minnesota
Commissioner of Public Safety.
         (d)   Proper enclosure. A proper enclosure exists for the Potentially
Dangerous Dog, and    there is a posting on the Premises with a clearly visible
warning sign including a warning    symbol, to inform children that there is a
Potentially Dangerous Do on the property.
         (e)   Bond/insurance. A surety bond issued by a surety company
authorized to conduct    business in the State of Minnesota in a form
acceptable to the city administrator with    guidance from the Animal Control
Authority in the amount of at least $300,000 insuring    the Owner for any
Personal injuries inflicted by the Potentially Dangerous Dog. A letter    from
the Owner's Insurance company stating this coverage must be provided to the
city    administrator.
         (f)   Photograph. The Owner of the Potentially Dangerous Dog shall
make the Dog available    to be photographed for identification by the animal
control authority at a time and    place specified by the animal control
authority.
         (g)   Proof of disclosure. The Owner of a Potentially Dangerous Dog
who rents property from    another where the Dog will reside must submit proof
of disclosure from the property    Owner that the property Owner was notified,
prior to entering into the lease agreement    and at the time of any lease
renewal, that the Person owns a Potentially Dangerous Dog that will reside at
the property.
         (h)   Muzzling. At the discretion of the Animal Control Officer or Law
Enforcement Officer, a    muzzle may be required when the Potentially Dangerous
Dog is outside a proper     enclosure. The muzzle must be made in a manner that
will prevent the Dog from biting    any Person or animal but that will not
cause injury to the Dog or interfere with its vision    or respiration.
         (i)   Audible warnings/cautions: The Owner or Person in control of a
potentially dangerous    Dog shall give audible warnings to others when
approached.
         (j)   Annual Registration Fee: The Owner of a Potentially Dangerous
Dog shall pay the City an    annual fee. The fees for such registration
   shall be imposed, set, established, and fixed by the City Council, by
resolution, from time    to time.
         (k)   Review request: If there are no additional reports of the
behavior described in     subsection (A) of this section within a 12-month
period from the date of the designation    as a Potentially Dangerous Dog, the
Dog's Owner may request a review, in writing, of the     declaration
designation and submit to the Animal Control Authority. The Owner must    
provide documented evidence for review that the Dog's behavior has changed due
to     environment, health, age, training, neutering or any other relevant
factor. The review    request and supporting    documentation must be submitted
to the Animal Control    Authority, who shall rule on the review requests based
on the record. Additional    information may be requested from the Animal
Control Authority. The Owner of the Dog    shall be notified in writing of the
review results within ten business days of receipt. An    administrative fee
shall be paid prior to the review. The fees for such review shall be
   imposed, set, established, and fixed by the City Council, by resolution,
from time to    time.
   (B)   DANGEROUS DOG DESIGNATION. The Washington County Sheriff shall
designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving evidence that the
animal meets the definition under Minn. Stat. §§347.50 Subd. (3). The terms
DANGEROUS DOG and POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG shall also be construed to include
similar classifications from other statutes or ordinances which are
substantially in conformity with Minn. Stat. § 347.50, as it may be amended
from time to time, whether or not the same words are used.
      (1)   DANGEROUS DOGS
      It shall be illegal for any Person to own, keep, possess, or harbor any
Dog that has been declared a Dangerous Dog.
         (a)   This prohibition shall apply whether said declaration has
occurred in the City or in some other jurisdiction.
         (b)   This prohibition shall also apply whether said declaration was
made pursuant to    Minn. Stat §347.50, as it may be amended from time to time,
or pursuant to another statute or ordinance which is substantially similar to
Minn. Stat. §347.50, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (c)   If a Dangerous Dog has bitten a Person, then the Dog shall first
be quarantined according to the provisions of §
92.08. Following said quarantine period, then the provisions of divisions (d)
and (e) below shall apply.
         (d)   The Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer shall
immediately seize and    impound any Dangerous Dog that is found within the
City. The Dog will be kept no fewer    than ten calendar days. The Owner has
until the end of this time period to provide    written verification that the
Dog will be legally removed from the city, or that the Dog    will be
euthanized. The Owner must pay all associated impounding and boarding costs
   prior to the release of the Dog. Upon its release, the Dog shall be
immediately     transported to a location outside of the City, or to a proper
facility to be euthanized.
         (e)   Any such Dog that is not properly claimed within ten calendar
days shall be humanely    euthanized. The Owner of the Dog that is euthanized
shall be responsible to pay the    impounding, boarding and authorization
costs.
         (f)   This section shall not apply to police Dogs under the control of
a licensed law    enforcement officer during the performance of official police
activities.
      (2)   Hearing procedure for Designation of Dangerous Dogs and Potentially
Dangerous Dogs.
   Upon the initial designation of a Dog as dangerous or potentially dangerous,
the Owner shall be entitled to request a hearing to review that designation.
The Dog Owner and the City shall follow the appeal hearing procedure set forth
in Minn. Stat. §347.541.
§ 92.13 CRUELTY.
   (A)   No Owner shall fail to provide any Dog or Cat with humane care and
treatment, sufficient good and wholesome food and water, proper shelter and
protection from the weather and veterinary care when needed to prevent
suffering. No Person shall beat, cruelly ill-treat, neglect, or otherwise abuse
any Dog or Cat or cause or permit any Dog or Cat fight or other combat between
Dogs or Cats and humans.
   (B)   Any animal which is found in circumstances which would lead a
reasonable Person to believe that the health of the animal is endangered shall
be immediately seized by the animal control authority or any of his/her duly
authorized assistants, or any peace officer, and taken to the designated animal
control center or taken to a veterinarian if necessary for immediate care.
Animal Control Authority will notify potential Owner and follow procedures
outlined in MN Stat. §343.235.
   (C)   COLLARS, LEASHES, TIE OUTS
   Chains, Kennels, tethers, and tie outs. Chains, tethers, or tie outs must be
at least six (6) times the length of the animal secured to it and may not
exceed four (4) pounds in total weight. Tie outs must be of durable material,
strong enough to hold the animal it is intended for. Any animal secured with a
tie out must be so in an area that would not allow the animal to become tangled
around objects while allowing access to shelter and water. Tie outs must be
placed in such a location as to inhibit the animal secured from reaching a
public sidewalk, street, or alley. The tie out must not allow the secured
animal access to any neighboring property unless written permission has been
obtained from the property Owner. Animals restrained by a chain, tether, or
other tie out device shall not be secured to any stationary object for more
than two (2) consecutive hours, with at least a two-hour rest or relief period
between each chaining, and no more than two (2) two-hour chaining periods in a
twenty-four-hour period. 
   Kennels and pulley/cable run systems shall be exempt from the two-hour
restriction provided that:
      (1)   The length of the pulley system is at least twelve (12) feet, and
the attached tether has a swivel at both ends;
      (2)   The height of the pulley system is mounted at least seven (7) feet
above the ground;
      (3)   The space provided inside the Kennel or fenced area is at least
thirty-two (32) square feet;
      (4)   At least one-third of the Kennel floor must be made of solid
material to provide relief from the ground conditions in inclement weather and
the Kennel must also provide proper shelter pursuant to Minn. Stat. §343.30.
      (5)   The animal or animals confined or secured to a Kennel or pulley
system, are not confined in it or to it for more than ten (10) consecutive
hours in a twenty-four-hour period.
§ 92.14 FEMALES IN HEAT.
   Every female Dog or Cat in heat shall be confined in a building or other
secure enclosure in such manner that such female cannot come in contact with
another Dog or Cat, except for the express purpose of planned breeding, or
shall be controlled on a leash while being exercised.
Penalty, see §
92.99.
§ 92.15 SEIZURE; IMPOUNDMENT; FEES.
   (A)   If a Dog or Cat appears to be lost or "At Large" and has a collar tag,
appropriate measures should be taken to ascertain the name of the Owner from
its collar tags, and to notify and return the Dog or Cat to its Owner. If the
animal is collarless, the Animal Control Officer shall immediately ascertain
whether the Dog or Cat has a tattoo/microchip as a means of identification. The
Animal Control Officer shall thereupon give notice to the Owner of the
impoundment or, if the Owner is unknown, or cannot reasonably be reached, shall
post notice of the impoundment at the City Hall (and at such other places as
may be designated by the City Council). If such Dog or Cat is not claimed
within ten calendar days of such posted notice and all fees and charges paid,
the Animal Impound Facility shall place the Dog or Cat in the custody of a
suitable Person or shall humanely euthanize the animal. Any Dog or Cat
restrained or impounded shall receive humane treatment and sufficient food,
water, and shelter.
   (B)   The Animal Impound Service may charge such reasonable impounding fees
for the care and board of any Dog or Cat restrained or impounded. The City
Council shall annually review all fees so imposed by the Animal Impound Service
to determine their reasonableness, and may, by resolution, impose such
additional fees reasonably related to the necessary and reasonable expenses
incurred by the city for the capture, transportation and/or care of impounded
Dogs or Cats. All such fees must be paid to the Animal Impound Service and/or
City prior to release of the animal. The Animal Impound Service and/or City
shall issue a receipt to the Owner evidencing such payment.
   (C)   In the case where an animal has been impounded whose rabies
vaccination is not current, no Dog or Cat shall be released unless the Owner
agrees to have the Dog or Cat vaccinated within three days from the time of
release. At the time of the Dog's or Cat's release, the Owner shall be required
to sign a document acknowledging that the Dog's or Cat's rabies vaccination are
not current. The Animal Impound Service shall immediately provide a copy of
such document to the City Clerk-Administrator and to the appropriate law
enforcement officer. It shall be the responsibility of the Dog or Cat Owner to
have the Dog or Cat vaccinated as provided in §
92.07 of this subchapter. If evidence of the required vaccination is not
received by the City Clerk-Administrator within the specified three-day period,
a citation may be issued.
§ 92.16 SANITATION.
   Any Person who owns, keeps, or harbors any Dog or Cat must remove all Dog or
Cat feces, on a daily basis, any accumulations of Dog or Cat feces which are
visible from any location outside the borders of that Person's property.
§ 92.17 COORDINATION WITH VETERINARIANS.
   The city may enter into agreements with veterinarians to assist in the
administration of the provisions of this chapter. Said agreements shall ensure
that an orderly system is set up to coordinate the vaccination, impoundment,
quarantine and/or euthanization, as needed, of Dogs or Cats within the city.
Said agreement shall also provide for a reasonable method of compensating
veterinarians for the services that they provide to the city.
§ 92.18 NUMBER OF CATS AND DOGS ALLOWED
   The keeping of a large number of Dogs or Cats poses health, safety and
public welfare risks and is deemed a public nuisance.
   (A)   Cats. Unless the property Owner has an authorized Kennel, no
individual or family unit living together, firm or corporation shall keep more
than three (3) Cats over the age of 6 months.
   (B)   Dogs. Unless the property Owner has an authorized Kennel, no
individual or family unit living together, firm or corporation shall keep more
than three (3) Dogs over the age of 6 months.
   (C)   Cats and Dogs. Unless the property Owner has an authorized Kennel, no
individual or family unit living together, firm or corporation shall keep more
than a combination of 3 Cats and Dogs over the age of 6 months.
   (D)   Grandfather Clause.
      (1)   Any Person who owned, possessed, kept, or harbored Dogs and/or Cats
on or before February 16, 2024 in excess of the above allowed number of Dogs
and/or Cats shall be permitted to continue Ownership or possession as long as
they meet all the requirements set forth under state and federal law in
addition to those set forth in this chapter. Additionally, no Person shall be
permitted to increase the number of animals in excess of the above allowed
number of Dogs and/or Cats. Following the death of an animal, the property
Owner shall not acquire more animals until they have brought the number of
animals down to legal limits through attrition.
§ 92.19 DOGS WITHIN AN ACTIVE CITY PARK
   No Dogs are allowed at any time in the following City Parks: The Swimming
Beach, Riverfront Park and Pettitt Park.
   Dogs are allowed within other City Park areas and shall be under the
physical control, by leash or voice command, of the Owner, a member of the
Owner's immediate family or a Person designated by the Owner at all times. For
the purposes of this section, an active City Park shall    include any park
designated by City Council.
   Owners are responsible for the pick-up and disposal of Dog waste from City
Park areas. To preserve the health and safety of residents and the St. Croix
River, Dog waste must be disposed of in containers away from the beach and
river.
CHICKENS
§ 92.30 Chicken Keeping
   No Person shall keep, harbor, or maintain care, custody, or control over hen
chickens without first obtaining a permit from the City. Any Person desiring a
permit shall make written application to City. Approval of application is
subject to reasonable conditions prescribed by City. Failure to adhere to
permit conditions shall constitute cause for adverse action against the permit
and shall be a violation of this section.
§ 92.31 Chicken Keeping Permits
   City may grant a permit pursuant to this section only after the applicant
has met any permitting and educational requirements as established and
published by City. If the applicant is a renter, approval from the property
Owner shall be required.
   (A)   Limitation on number of chickens. Permit holders shall be limited to a
maximum of five (5) hen chickens. Roosters shall not be allowed.
   (B)   Term. All permits shall expire on March 31st of each year following
the date of issuance unless sooner revoked and must be renewed annually
thereafter by the permit holder.
   (C)   Fees. Application fees and renewal fees are in accordance with the fee
schedule, as amended for such permits shall be as established in the license
fee schedule. Associated fees for permits shall be payable upon application/
renewal.
§ 92.32 Standards of care, practices, restrictions, and enclosure requirements.
   (A)   Chicken keeping and residential coops, pens, runs, or other structures
shall be limited to five (5) hen chickens per permit.
   (B)   Location of coop, run, or pen must be in compliance with all zoning
code requirements and enclosed to ensure chickens are confined to permittee's
property. The enclosure must be of proper size for the number and type of
chickens being housed as prescribed by City. A building permit shall be
required for coops equal to or greater than 180 square feet in size.
   (C)   Residential coops, pens, runs, or other structures shall be an allowed
accessory structure to a dwelling subject to the following:
      (1)   The use shall be set back not less than twenty five (25) feet from
any habitable building or well on the subject property or any adjacent
property.
      (2)   The use shall be located entirely in the rear yard of the principal
residential structure and shall be set back at least ten (10) feet from the
rear and side lot lines.
      (3)   The use shall be constructed of durable materials and shall be
compatible with the principal structure and adjacent residential properties.
      (4)   The property with the addition of the coops, pens, or other
structures shall not exceed existing zoning limitations on numbers and sizes
allowable for accessory structures as set forth in existing City zoning code.
   (D)   Fecal waste or litter shall be removed at such reasonable times to
prevent odors from emitting over property lines. Such waste or litter must be
double bagged and disposed of in city garbage or composted provided the method
used and the location does not present a public nuisance or health issue.
   (E)   Slaughter of chickens within the City shall only be done on the permit
holder's property; shall only be permitted if the chickens will be used solely
for Personal use and consumption and not for sale; and shall be performed in a
discrete, humane, and sanitary fashion.
   (F)   Any chicken keeping found to be in violation of the foregoing or
constituting a public nuisance (after being provided notice to abate an issue
and which license holder has failed to correct within a reasonable time) is
prohibited and all permits associated with the coop may be revoked or denied.
The coop and all chickens shall be removed by the property Owner within forty-
eight (48) hours of notice of the revoked or denied permit at the expense of
the permit holder or applicant.
   (G)   City may deny, suspend, revoke, or take other authorized adverse
action against any permit applied for or granted pursuant to this section if
any condition or requirement is violated or if the keeping of chickens becomes
a public nuisance or for other good cause.
   (H)   Public nuisance for the purpose of this ordinance includes, without
limitation, any chicken or their associated coop, pen, run or yard that on
three (3) or more occurrences in a twelve (12) month period receives complaints
of noise, odor, or any other violation, provided the complaints are founded and
verified by City.
   (I)   No Person, business, or entity shall maintain or cause to be
maintained any commercial business related to the keeping, breeding, raising,
slaughtering, or selling of any fowl, including chickens, on residential
property.
§ 92.33 DISCONTINUED USE.
   Coops, pens, runs, or other accessories that are no longer in use shall be
promptly removed from the property.
§ 92.34 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Chickens must be acquired and kept in good health and condition in
accordance with any applicable state law.
   (B)   No Person who owns, controls, keeps, maintains, or harbors hen
chickens shall permit the Premises where the hen chickens are kept to be or
remain in an unhealthy, unsanitary, or noxious condition or to permit the
Premises to be in such condition that noxious odors are carried to adjacent
public or private property. City may inspect the Premises annually, or upon
complaints from third parties, or whenever the City otherwise deems necessary.
   (C)   No Person having the care, custody, and control of any chicken shall
abandon said chicken or allow any chicken to run At Large off the property of
its Owner or custodian.
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any Person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.18 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor in accordance with Minnesota Statute
609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be amended from time to time; and the cost of
prosecution may be added pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 631.48.
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Prohibition
   
93.02   Public nuisances
   
93.05   Peddling and soliciting
   
93.06   Abatement
   
93.07   Assessment of cost
Air Pollution
   
93.20   Adoption of state's Pollution Control Agency Regulation 8
   
93.21   Open burning
Weeds and Vegetation
   
93.35   Weed Inspector
   
93.36   Cutting and removal
   
93.37   Duty of owner, lessee, or occupant
   
93.38   Non-compliance by owner
   93.39   Definitions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 PROHIBITION.
   No person, firm, corporation, or association shall cause or permit any
nuisance as hereinafter defined to exist or to be maintained upon property
situated in the whole or in part within the limits of the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES
The following are hereby declared to be public nuisances affecting health,
safety, order, convenience, and the general welfare:
   (A)   Decayed food. Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or
vegetable matter offered for sale to the public;
   (B)   Diseased animals. All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   Carcasses. Carcasses of animals not burned or destroyed within 24
hours after death;
   (D)   Manure and rubbish. Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (E)   Garbage cans. Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free
or fly-tight or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to
emit foul and disagreeable odors;
   (F)   Cesspool contents. The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream
or lake, canal, or body of water by sewage, industrial waste, or other
substances;
   (G)   Accumulation of trash and debris. An accumulation of tin cans,
bottles, trash or debris of any nature or description; and the throwing,
dumping, or depositing of any dead animals, manure, or description; and the
throwing, dumping or depositing of dead animals, manure, garbage, waste,
decaying matter, ground sand, stones, ashes, rubbish, tin cans or other
material of any kind on private property;
   (H)   Smoke and fumes. Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot or cinders
in unreasonable quantities;
   (I)   Exposure of diseased persons. All public exposure of persons having
contagious disease;
   (J)   Offensive trade or business. Any offensive trade or business as
defined by statute not operating under local license;
   (K)   Vibrations. All unnecessary and annoying vibrations;
   (L)   Gambling devices. All gambling devices, slot machines and punch
boards, except as otherwise authorized and permitted by federal, state, or
local law.
   (M)   Betting. Betting, bookmaking, and all apparatuses used in such
occupations.
   (N)   Illegal liquor. All places where intoxicating liquors are manufactured
or disposed in violation of law, or where, in violation of law, persons are
permitted to resort for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquors, or where
intoxicating is kept for sale or disposition in violation of law, and all
liquors, bottles, kegs, pumps, bars and other property kept at and used for
maintaining such a place; For the purposes of this section INTOXICATING LIQUOR
shall mean any ethyl alcohol, distilled, fermented, spirituous, vinous or malt
beverage containing more than ½% alcohol by volume;
   (O)   Illegal consumption. Unlawful consumption of intoxicating liquor
public beaches or parks;
   (P)   Cannabis Use. Use of cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency
hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products in public beaches or parks.
      (1)   Penalty. Any person who engages in the use of cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products in in public beaches or parks is guilty of a petty misdemeanor in
accordance with Minnesota Statute 609.02 Subd. 4a as it may be amended from
time to time; and the cost of prosecution may be added pursuant to Minn. Stat.
§631.48.
   (Q)   Tobacco Use. Use of tobacco or tobacco products in public beaches or
parks.
      (1)   Penalty. Any person who engages in the use of tobacco or tobacco
products in public beaches or parks is guilty of a petty misdemeanor in
accordance with Minnesota Statute 609.02 Subd. 4a as it may be amended from
time to time; and the cost of prosecution may be added pursuant to Minn. Stat.
§631.48;
   (R)   Illegal vehicles. Any vehicle used for the illegal transportation of
intoxicating liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other
immoral or illegal purpose;
   (S)   Window peeping. The looking into or peeping through doors, windows, or
openings of private homes by methods of stealth and without proper authority
and by surreptitious methods, or what is commonly known as window peeping;
   (T)   Snow on sidewalks. All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks
12 hours after the snow and ice has ceased to be deposited thereon;
   (U)   Obstruction of view of traffic. All trees, hedges, billboards, or
other obstructions which prevent persons from having a clear view of traffic
approaching an intersection from cross streets in sufficient time to bring a
motor vehicle driven at a reasonable speed to a full stop before the
intersection is reached;
   (V)   Low limits. All limbs of trees which are below the minimum clearance
established under 94.05 (B);
   (W)   Low wires. All wires which are strung less than 15 feet above the
surface of any public street or alley;
   (X)   Noise. All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as
they may be amended from time to time which are hereby incorporated by
reference into this code;
   (Y)   Obstruction and excavation. Obstructions and excavations affecting the
ordinary use of the public streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds except
under such conditions as are provided by ordinance, and any other excavation
left unprotected or uncovered indefinitely or allowed to exist in such manner
as to attract people;
   (Z)   Junk. The piling, storing, or keeping of old machinery, wrecked or
junked vehicles and other junk or debris;
   (AA)   Obstruction of streets. Any use of property abutting on a public
street or sidewalk, or use of a public street or sidewalk which causes large
crowds of people to gather obstructing traffic and the free use of public
streets or sidewalks;
   (BB)    Signs over streets. All hanging signs, awnings and other similar
structures over public streets or sidewalks, or so situated as to endanger
public safety, not constructed, and maintained as provided bylaw, or without
proper permit;
   (CC)   Water from buildings. The allowing of rain, water, ice, or snow to
fall from any building on any public street or sidewalk or to flow across any
public sidewalk;
   (DD)   Attractive dangers. All dangerous, unguarded machinery, equipment, or
other property in any public place, or so situated or operated on private
property as to attract the public;
   (EE)   Material from air. The placing, throwing, dropping, or releasing
printed matter, paper or any other material or objects over the city from an
airplane, balloon, or other aircraft, or in such, manner as to cause such
material to fall or land in the city;
   (FF)   Altering drainage. Obstructing the free flow of water in a natural
waterway or public street drain, gutter, or ditch with trash or other
materials;
   (GG)   Repairing vehicles on streets. Making repairs to motor vehicles or
tires in public streets or alleys, excepting only emergency repairs when it
will not unduly impede or interfere with traffic;
   (HH)   Trash in streets. Throwing, placing, depositing, or burning leaves,
trash, lawn clippings, weeds, grass or other material in the streets, alleys or
gutters;
   (II)   Interference with radios or television. All unnecessary interference
with and disturbance of radios or television sets caused by defective
electrical appliances and equipment or improper operation thereof;
   (JJ)   Fire hazards. Any building or structure which, by reason of age,
dilapidated condition, defective chimneys or stove pipes, defective electric
wiring, defective gas connections, defective heating apparatus or other defect,
is susceptible to fire, and which thus endangers life or limb or other
buildings or property within the city; and any accumulations of brush, timber
or other materials or substance on either vacant or improved property, which
accumulations are susceptible to fire or capable of spreading fire to adjacent
property;
   (KK)   Other acts detrimental to health, peace and safety. All other
conditions, acts, omission, uses, or things which are liable to cause injury to
the person or property of anyone or are deemed by the Board of Health to be a
menace to the health of the inhabitants of the city or a considerable number
thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 PEDDLING AND SOLICITING.
   (A)   The practice of going in and upon private residences or residence
properties in the city by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants
and transient vendors of merchandise, not having been requested or invited to
do so by the owner or owners, occupant or occupants of said private residences,
for the purpose of soliciting orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise,
or for the purpose of disposing of or peddling the same, is hereby declared to
be a nuisance, except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the sale, or
soliciting of orders for the same, of milk, dairy products, vegetables,
poultry, eggs and other farm and garden produce so far as the sale of the
commodities named herein is authorized by law.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any charitable,
religious, patriotic or philanthropic organization, society, association or
corporation desiring to sell or distribute any items of literature or to sell
or distribute any goods, wares and merchandise, for which a fee is charged or
solicited from the persons other than members of such organizations upon the
streets, in office or business buildings, by house to house canvas, or in
public places, for a charitable, religious, patriotic or philanthropic purpose.
   (D)   Any resident of the city who wishes to exclude peddlers or solicitors
from premises occupied by them may place upon or near the usual entrance to
such premises a printed placard or sign bearing the following notice: "Peddlers
and Solicitors Prohibited." Such placard shall be at least three and three-
fourths inches long and three and three-fourths inches wide and the printing
thereon shall not be smaller than 48 point types.
   (E)   No peddler or solicitor shall enter in or upon any premises or attempt
to enter in or upon any premises where such placard or sign is placed and
maintained.
      (1990)      No person other than the person occupying such premises shall
remove, injure, or deface such placard or sign.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 ABATEMENT.
In the event of any nuisance as defined herein, the City Council may, by
majority vote, order the owner, lessee or occupant or any person having care of
control of any such lot or land to abate the nuisance and shall direct the City
Clerk-Administrator issue a written notice to such person allowing ten days
after the service of notice for such person to comply.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.07 ASSESSMENT OF COST.
   If the nuisance is not abated within ten days in compliance with the notice,
the City Council shall cause the nuisance to be abated and shall recover the
actual cost thereof, plus an additional 25% of such expenditure, by civil
action against the person or persons served; or, if service has been made upon
the record owner, as shown on the records of the County Auditor by ordering the
City Clerk-Administrator to extend such sum, plus 25% thereof as a special tax
against the property upon which the nuisance existed and to certify the same to
the County Auditor for collection in the same manner as taxes and special
assessments are certified and collected as allowed under M.S. §429.101.
Penalty, see §
10.99
AIR POLLUTION
§ 93.20 ADOPTION OF MINNESOTA OPEN BURING PROHIBITIONS
   Minn. Stat. 88.171 is hereby adopted by reference pursuant to M.S. § 471.62,
as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 93.21 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to start or allow to burn, any
open fire on any property within the city without first having obtained a "burn
permit" from the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire Protection District, except for
supervised recreational or cooking fires within approved fire rings, pits, or
barbecue grills.
   (B)   RECREATIONAL FIRES are defined as having no more than three feet in
diameter at their bases, with flame height not exceeding three feet, and fueled
only by natural wood with logs three inches in diameter or larger. Fires fueled
by other materials, including but not limited to treated or painted wood,
plastic, rubber, leaves, grass, trimmings, or any garden or yard vegetation,
regardless of size, are not RECREATIONAL FIRES.
   (C)   Recreational fires shall be:
      (1)   Constantly attended by a person until the fire is totally
extinguished.
      (2)   Conducted at least 15 feet from a structure or combustible
material.
      (3)   Take place on the owner's property and be a minimum of five feet
from all property lines.
   (D)   A means of extinguishing the fire quickly must be readily available
for immediate use. Acceptable on-site fire extinguishing means to include at
least one of the following:
      (1)   Portable fire extinguisher with a minimum 4-A rating.
      (2)   A shovel with readily available dirt or sand.
      (3)   An operational garden hose attached to a water source, or a water
barrel.
   (E)   When a burning ban has been issued by the Commissioner of the
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources or other authorized unit of
government, the City may suspend all recreational fires for the duration of the
ban.
   (F)   A fire must be extinguished if it is smoldering or becomes a nuisance
(e.g., annoys, cause injuries, or endangers the health, safety, comfort, or
repose of the public,) to others or if not under supervision.
   (G)   Recreational fires on property of multi-family residences or on rental
property are the responsibility of the property owner, its management, or
association, as it maybe so organized. Residents thereof must adhere to the
provisions of this section of the city code.
   (H)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this section of the city code
constitutes a public nuisance, and is subject to an additional fine equal to
the costs of Fire District actions needed to ensure compliance with them and to
safeguard life and property.
Penalty, see §
10.99
WEEDS AND VEGETATION
§ 93.35 WEED INSPECTOR.
   The Mayor may appoint an Inspector who shall have the authority and
responsibility to enforce this subchapter. The City Council members are also
vested with such authority and the term "Inspector" as used in this subchapter
shall include Council members.
§ 93.36 CUTTING AND REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee or occupant, or any agent,
servant, representative or employee of any such owner, lessee or occupant
having control of any occupied or unoccupied lot or land or any part thereof in
the city to permit or maintain on any such lot or land, or on or along the
sidewalk, street or alley adjacent to the same between the property line and
the curb or middle of the alley or for ten feet outside the property line if
there be no curb, any growth of noxious weeds.
   It shall also be unlawful for any such person or persons to cause, suffer or
allow ragweed or other poisonous plants, or plants detrimental to health to
grow on any such lot or land in such manner that any part of such ragweed or
other poisonous or harmful weed shall extend upon, overhang, or border any
public place or allow to seed, pollen or other poisonous particles or
emanations therefrom to be carried through the air into any public place.
   Minn. Stat. 142.925 regulating native landscapes is hereby adopted by
reference pursuant to M.S. § 471.62, as it may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.37 DUTY OF OWNER, LESSEE OR OCCUPANT.
   It shall be the duty of any owner, lessee or occupant of any lot or land to
cut and remove or cause to be cut and removed all such weeds, grass, or other
rank, poisonous or harmful vegetation as often as may be necessary to comply
with the provisions of §
93.36; provided that cutting and removing such weeds, grass, and vegetation at
least once in every three weeks, between May 15 and September 15 shall be
deemed to be a compliance with this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.38 NON-COMPLIANCE BY OWNER.
   If the provisions of §§
93.36 and
93.37 are not complied with, the Inspector shall serve written notice upon the
owner, lessee or occupant or any person having the care or control of any such
lot or land to comply with the provisions of this subchapter. If the person
upon whom the notice is served fails, neglects, or refuses to cut and remove or
to cause to be cut and removed such weeds, grass, or other vegetation within
ten days after receipt of such notice, or if no person can be found in the city
who either is or claims to be the owner of such lot or land, or who either
represents or claims to represent such owner, the Inspector shall cause such
weeds, grass and other vegetation on such lot or land to be cut and removed. A
verified and itemized statement of the actual cost of such cutting and removal,
plus 5% shall be provided to the Clerk-Administrator and shall thereupon become
and be a lien upon the property on which such weeds, grass and other vegetation
were located and shall be added to and become and form part of the taxes next
to be assessed and levied upon such lot or land and shall bear interest at the
same rate as taxes. The City Clerk-Administrator shall certify to the County
Auditor a statement of such cost with the request that they enter such amount
on the tax books, as a tax upon the land, and such cost shall be collected in
the same manner as real estate taxes.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Short title
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Municipal Tree Inspector; City Tree Board
   
94.04   Permits required
   
94.05   Obstructions; pruning trees
   
94.06   Abusing or mutilating Public Trees
   
94.07   Interference with Municipal Tree Inspector
   
94.08   Protection of trees
   
94.09   Placing materials on public property
   
94.10   Interpretation and construction
Tree Diseases
   
94.25   City Forester
   
94.26   Nuisance declared
   
94.27   Inspection and investigation
   
94.28   Dutch Elm disease and Oak Wilt
   
94.29   Infected tree and wood; procedure for removal
   
94.30   Spraying elm or oak trees
   
94.31   Transportation and storage of elm wood within the city
   
94.32   Interfering prohibited
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter Shall be known and may be cited as the Municipal Tree
Ordinance of the city.
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions Shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LARGE TREES. Designated as those attaining a height of 45 feet or more.
   MEDIUM TREES. Designated as those attaining a height of 30 to 45 feet.
   MUNICIPAL TREE INSPECTOR. The MUNICIPAL TREE INSPECTOR, Forester, Tree
Warden, or other qualified and designated official of the city assigned to
carry out the enforcement of this subchapter. MUNICIPAL TREE INSPECTOR Shall
also assume and fulfill the role of City Forester as provided in § 94.25 below.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Lake St. Croix Beach, County of Washington, State
of Minnesota.
   PARK. Includes all public Parks having individual names.
   PARK COMMISSION. The Department of Parks and Street Trees, Parks and
Forestry, Forestry, Street Trees, or other designated department of the city
under whose jurisdiction Park and/or Street trees fall.
   PERSON. Any Person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PRINCIPAL THOROUGHFARE. Any Street upon which trucks are not prohibited.
   PROPERTY LINE. The outer edge of a Street Or Highway.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The Person owning such property as shown by the County
Auditor's Plat.
   PUBLIC PLACES. All other grounds owned by the city.
   PUBLIC TREES. All shade and ornamental trees now or hereafter growing on any
Street or any public areas where otherwise indicated.
   SHALL. Is mandatory and not merely directory.
   SMALL TREES. Designated as those attaining a height of 20 to 30 feet.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width of every public way or right-of-way when
any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for
purposes of vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   TREE LAWN. The part of a Street Or Highway, not covered by sidewalk or other
paving, lying between the Property Line and that portion of the Street Or
Highway usually used for vehicular traffic.
§ 94.03 MUNICIPAL TREE INSPECTOR; CITY TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Municipal Tree Inspector.
   (B)   Appointment. The Municipal Tree Inspector Shall be annually appointed
by the City Council. The Tree Inspector Shall have a general knowledge of
horticulture and arboriculture and Shall have such other qualifications and
training as Shall be specified by the City Council from time to time.
   (C)   Compensation. The Municipal Tree Inspector may receive compensation as
established by Council resolution from time to time.
   (D)   Duties. The Municipal Tree Inspector Shall have the authority to
promulgate the rules and regulations of the arboricultural specifications and
standards of practice governing the planting, maintenance, removal,
fertilization, pruning, and bracing of trees on the Streets or other public
sites in the Municipality, and Shall direct, regulate, and control the
planting, maintenance, and removal of all trees growing now or hereafter in any
public area of the city. They Shall cause the provisions of this subchapter to
be enforced. In their absence, these duties Shall be the responsibility of a
qualified alternate designated by the Municipality.
   (E)   Authority of the Municipal Tree Inspector.
      (1)   Planting, maintenance, and removal of trees. The Municipal Tree
Inspector Shall have the authority and jurisdiction of regulating the planting,
maintenance, and removal of trees on Streets and other publicly owned property
to ensure safety or preserve the aesthetics of such public sites.
      (2)   Supervision. The Municipal Tree Inspector Shall have the authority
and it Shall be their duty to supervise or inspect all work done under a permit
issued in accordance with the terms of this subchapter.
      (3)   Condition of permit. The Municipal Tree Inspector Shall have the
authority to affix reasonable conditions to the granting of a permit in
accordance with the terms of this subchapter.
      (4)   Community Forestry Plan. The Municipal Tree Inspector Shall have
the authority to formulate a Community Forestry Plan with the advice, a hearing
and approval of the City Council. The Community Forestry Plan Shall specify the
species of trees to be planted on each of the Streets or other public sites of
the Municipality. From and after the effective date of the Community Forestry
Plan or any amendment thereof, all planting Shall conform thereto.
         (a)   The Municipal Tree Inspector Shall consider all existing and
future utility and environmental factors when recommending a specific species
for each of the Street and other public sites of the Municipality.
         (b)   The Municipal Tree Inspector, with the approval of the City
Council, Shall have the authority to amend or add to the Community Forestry
Plan at any time that circumstances make it advisable.
   (B)   Creation of a City Tree Board. There is hereby created and established
in the city a City Tree Board which Shall consist of the Parks Commission of
the city.
§ 94.04 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Planting, maintenance, or removal.
      (1)   No Person Shall plant, spray, fertilize, preserve, prune, remove,
cut above ground, or otherwise disturb any tree on any Street or municipal-
owned property without first filing an application and procuring a permit from
the Municipal Tree Inspector or otherwise specified municipal authority. The
permit fee Shall be in accordance with the current city fee schedule, as
amended. The Person receiving the permit Shall abide by the arboricultural
specifications and standards of practice adopted by the Municipal Tree
Inspector.
      (2)   Application for permits must be made at the office of the City
Clerk-Administrator not less than 48 hours in advance of the time the work is
to be done.
      (3)   The Municipal Tree Inspector Shall issue the permit provided for
herein if, in their judgment, the proposed work is desirable and the proposed
method and workmanship thereof are of a satisfactory nature. Any permit granted
Shall contain a definite date of expiration and the work Shall be completed in
the time allowed on the permit and in the manner as therein described. Any
permit Shall be void if its terms are violated.
      (4)   Notice of completion Shall be given within five days of the
Municipal Tree Inspector for their inspection.
   (B)   Planting.
      (1)   Application data. The application required herein Shall state the
number of trees to be set out; the location, grade, species, cultivar, or
variety of each tree; the method of planting; and such other information as the
Municipal Tree Inspector Shall find reasonably necessary to a fair
determination of whether a permit should be issued.
      (2)   Improper planting. Whenever any tree Shall be planted or set out in
conflict with the provisions of this section, it Shall be lawful for the
Municipal Tree Inspector to remove or cause removal of the same, and the exact
cost thereof Shall be assessed to the owner as provided by law in the case of
special assessments.
   (C)   Maintenance. The application required herein Shall state the number
and kinds of trees to be sprayed, fertilized, pruned, or otherwise preserved;
the kind of treatment to be administered; the composition of the spray material
to be applied; and such other information as the Municipal Tree Inspector Shall
find reasonably necessary to be a fair determination of whether a permit should
be issued.
   (D)   Removal, replanting and replacement.
      (1)   Wherever it is necessary to remove a tree or trees from the Tree
Lawn in connection with the paving of a sidewalk, or the paving or widening of
the portion of a Street Or Highway used for vehicular traffic, the Municipality
Shall replant such trees or replace them. Provided that conditions prevent
planting on Tree Lawns, this requirement will be satisfied if any equivalent
number of trees of the same size and species as provided for the arboricultural
specifications are planted in an attractive manner on the adjoining property.
      (2)   No Person or Property Owner Shall remove a tree from the Tree Lawn
for the purpose of construction, or for any other reason, without first filing
an application and procuring a permit from the Municipal Tree Inspector, and
without replacing the removed tree or trees in accordance with the adopted
arboricultural specifications. Such replacement Shall meet the standards of
size, species and placement as provided for in a permit issued by the Municipal
Tree Inspector. The Person or Property Owner Shall bear the cost of removal and
replacement of all trees removed.
Penalty, see §
94.99.
§ 94.05 OBSTRUCTIONS; PRUNING TREES.
   (A)   Duty to prune. It Shall be the duty of any Person or Persons owning or
occupying real property bordering on any Street upon which property there may
be trees, to prune such trees in such manner that they will not obstruct or
shade the Streetlights, obstruct the passage of pedestrians on sidewalks,
obstruct vision of traffic signs or obstruct view of any Street or alley
intersection.
   (B)   Minimum clearance. The minimum clearance of any overhanging portion
thereof Shall be ten feet over sidewalks, and 12 feet over all Streets except
truck thoroughfares which Shall have a clearance of 16 feet.
   (C)   Notice to prune. Should any Person or Persons owning real property
bordering on any Street fail to prune trees as hereinabove provided, the
Municipal Tree Inspector Shall order such Person or Persons, within seven days
after receipt of written notice, to so prune trees.
   (D)   Order required. The order required herein Shall be served by mailing a
copy of the order to the last known address of the Property Owner, by certified
mail.
   (E) Failure to comply. When a Person to whom an order is directed Shall fail
to comply within the specified time, it Shall be lawful for the Municipality to
prune such trees, and the exact cost thereof Shall be assessed to the owner as
provided by law in the case of special
Penalty, see §
94.99.
§ 94.06 ABUSING OR MUTILATING PUBLIC TREES.
   Unless specifically authorized by the Municipal Tree Inspector, no Person
Shall intentionally damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any tree; attach
any rope, wire, nails, advertising poster, or other contrivance to any tree,
allow any gaseous liquid, or solid substance which is harmful to such trees to
come in contact with them; or set fire or permit any fire to burn when such
fire or heat thereof will injure any portion of any tree.
Penalty, see §
94.99.
§ 94.07 INTERFERENCE WITH MUNICIPAL TREE INSPECTOR.
   No Person Shall hinder, prevent, delay, or interfere with the Municipal Tree
Inspector or any of their assistants while engaged in carrying out the
execution or enforcement of this subchapter. Provided, however, that nothing
herein Shall be construed as an attempt to prohibit the pursuit of any remedy,
legal or equitable, in any court of competent jurisdiction for the protection
of property rights by the owner of any property within the Municipality.
Penalty, see §
94.99.
§ 94.08 PROTECTION OF TREES.
   (A)   All trees on any Street or other publicly owned property near any
excavation or construction of any building structure, or Street work, Shall be
guarded with a good substantial fence, frame, or box not less than four feet
high and eight feet square, or a distance in feet from the tree equal to the
diameter or the trunk in inches diameter at four and one half feet, whichever
is greater, and all building material, dirt or other debris Shall be kept
outside the barrier.
   (B)   No Person Shall excavate any ditches, tunnels, trenches or lay any
drive within a radius of ten feet from any public tree without first obtaining
a written permit from the Municipal Tree Inspector.
Penalty, see §
94.99.
§ 94.09 PLACING MATERIALS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No Person Shall deposit, place, store or maintain upon any public place of
the Municipality, any materials which may impede the free passage of water,
air, and fertilizer to the roots of any tree growing therein, except by written
permit of the Municipal Tree Inspector.
Penalty, see §
94.99.
§ 94.10 INTERPRETATION AND CONSTRUCTION.
   This subchapter is enacted in addition to and not in replacement of the
Model Bluffland Shoreland Management Ordinance of the city. In the event any
portion hereof is determined to be inconsistent with the terms and provisions
of the Model Bluffland Shoreland Management Ordinance, the more restrictive
interpretation and construction Shall prevail and apply.
TREE DISEASES
§ 94.25 CITY FORESTER.
   (A)   Position created. The powers and duties of the City Forester as set
forth herein are conferred upon the Persons or employees whom the Council Shall
deem appropriate.
   (B)   Duties of Forester. It is the duty of the City Forester to coordinate,
under the direction and control of the Council, all activities of the
Municipality relating to the control and prevention of Dutch Elm, oak wilt or
similar plant pests or plant diseases. They Shall recommend to the Council the
details of a program for the control of tree disease, or similar plant pests or
plant diseases, and perform the duties incident to such program adopted by the
Council.
§ 94.26 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (A)   The following things are public nuisances wherever they may be found
within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing tree or part thereof infected to any degree
with disease, fungus, or infestation;; and
      (3)   Any dead tree or part thereof, including logs, branches, stumps,
firewood, or other tree material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective insecticide.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any Person to permit any public nuisance as defined
in division (A) above to remain on any premises owned or controlled by them
within the city. Such nuisance may be abated in the manner prescribed by this
subchapter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.27 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Annual inspection. The City Forester Shall inspect all premises and
places within the city as often as practicable to determine whether any
condition described in §
94.26 exists thereon. They Shall investigate all reported incidents of tree
disease, fungus, or infestation.
   (B)   Entry on private premises. The City Forester or their duly authorized
agents may enter upon private premises at any reasonable time for the purpose
of carrying out any of the duties assigned them under this subchapter.
   (C)   Diagnosis. The City Forester Shall, upon finding conditions indicating
tree disease, fungus, or infestation, immediately send appropriate specimens or
samples to the Commissioner of Agriculture for analysis, or take such other
steps for diagnosis as may be recommended by the Commissioner. Except as
provided in § 94.30, no action to remove infected trees or wood Shall be taken
until positive diagnosis of the disease has been made.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.28 TREE DISEASE, FUNGUS, AND INFESTATION.
   In abating the nuisances defined in §
94.27, the City Forester Shall cause the infected or infested tree or wood to
be sprayed, removed, burned, or otherwise effectively treated so as to destroy
and prevent as fully as possible the spread of tree- disease, fungus, and
infestation. Such abatement procedures Shall be carried out in accordance with
current technical and expert opinions and plans as may be designated by the
Commissioner of Agriculture.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.29 INFECTED TREE AND WOOD; PROCEDURE FOR REMOVAL.
   Whenever the City Forester finds with reasonable certainty that the
infestation defined in §
94.26 exists in any tree or wood in any public or private place in the city,
they Shall proceed as follows:
   (A)   If the Forester finds that the danger of infestation of other trees is
not imminent because of dormancy or other circumstances, they Shall make a
written report of their finding to the Council which Shall proceed by:
      (1)   Abating the nuisance of a public improvement under M.S. Chapter
429, as it may be amended from time to time; or
      (2)   Abating the nuisance as provided in division (C) below.
   (B)   If the City Forester finds that the danger of infection or infestation
of other trees is imminent, they Shall notify the abutting Property Owner by
certified mail that the nuisance will be abated within a specified time, not
less than five days from the date of mailing of such notice. The Forester Shall
immediately report such action to the Council, and after the expiration of the
time limited by the notice, they may abate the nuisance.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the City Forester's report required by division (A)
above, the Council Shall by resolution order the nuisance abated. Before action
is taken on such resolution, the Council Shall publish notice of its intention
to meet to consider taking action to abate the nuisance. The notice Shall be
mailed to affected Property Owners and published once no less than one week
prior to such meeting. The notice Shall state the time and place of the
meeting, the Streets affected, action proposed, the estimated cost of the
abatement and the proposed basis of assessment, if any, of costs. At such
hearing or adjournment thereof, the Council Shall hear Property Owners with
reference to the scope and desirability of the proposed project. The Council
Shall thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the original resolution with
such modifications as it considers desirable and provide the doing of the work
by day labor or by contract.
   (D)   The City Forester Shall keep a record of the costs of abatements done
under this section and Shall report monthly to the City Clerk-Administrator all
work done for which assessments are to be made stating and certifying the
description of the land, lots, parcels involved and the amount chargeable to
each.
   (E)   On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk-Administrator
Shall list the total unpaid charges for each abatement against each separate
lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this subchapter. The Council
may then spread the charges, or any portion thereof, against the property
involved as a special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County
Auditor and collection the following year along with current taxes.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.30 SPRAYING TREES.
   (A)   Whenever the City Forester determines that any tree or wood within the
city is infected or infested, they may spray all nearby high value trees an
effective concentrate or other appropriate substance suitable for destroying or
controlling disease, fungus, or infestation. Spraying activities authorized by
this section Shall be conducted in accordance with technical and expert
opinions and plans for the Commissioner of Agriculture and under the
supervision of the Commissioner and their agents whenever possible.
   (B)   The notice provisions of § 94.29 apply to spraying operations
conducted under this section.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.31 TRANSPORTATION AND STORAGE OF WOOD WITHIN THE CITY.
   It Shall be unlawful for any Person to transport within the city any
diseased or infested wood without having obtained a permit from the City
Forester. The Forester Shall grant such permits only when the purpose of this
subchapter Shall be served thereby. It Shall be unlawful for any Person to
store within the city any diseased or infested wood between April 1 and
September 15 of each calendar year. Provisions for municipal storage of
diseased wood for public disposal and/or use may be established by resolution
of the City Council from time to time.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.32 INTERFERING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any Person to prevent, delay or interfere with the City
Forester or their agents while they are engaged in the performance of duties
imposed by this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided Shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any Person, firm or corporation violating or failing to comply with
any of the provisions of §§
94.01 through
94.10 Shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof Shall be
punished in accordance with Minnesota Statute 609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be
amended from time to time; and the cost of prosecution may be added pursuant to
Minn. Stat. §631.48.
CHAPTER 95: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Intrusion Alarms
   
95.04   Fire Or Emergency Medical Alarm Systems
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to encourage security, fire or medical
alarm users and alarm businesses (including, but not limited to, sales,
installation, and/or monitoring) to maintain the operational reliability and
the proper use of Alarm Systems so as to limit unnecessary police, fire and
emergency medical responses to False Alarms and alarm malfunctions.
   (B)   This chapter governs burglary, robbery, intrusion, fire, and medical
emergency False Alarms, provides for service fees for excessive False Alarms,
and provides for issuance of citations in lieu of assessing such service fees.
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SITE. A single premise or location, or a multi-tenant location, served
by an Alarm System or systems.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanical, electrical or radio controlled device or
system which is designed to emit, transmit or relay a signal or message and
which, when activated, is intended to summon, or that would reasonably be
expected to summon, police, fire, or emergency medical services. ALARM SYSTEM
does not include:
   (A)   An alarm installed on a vehicle, unless the vehicle is permanently
located at a site; or
   (B)   An alarm designed to alert only inhabitants of a premise, and which
does not constitute a Local Alarm.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of an Alarm System signal or message which
elicits notification to and or response by the County Sheriff's Office when
there is no evidence of a crime, fire, medical emergency, or other activity
which warrants a call for immediate police, fire fighting or emergency medical
assistance. This may include, but is not limited to, an alarm discovered by a
police officer or firefighter before notification of an alarm from a monitor or
from a Local Alarm System that is not monitored.
   FIRE OR EMERGENCY MEDICAL ALARM. A system or portion of a combination system
consisting of components and circuits arranged to monitor and annunciate the
status of fire or medical emergency or supervisory signal initiating devices
which are intended to summon fire or emergency medical services of the County
Sheriff's Office or the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire Protection District.
   INTRUSION ALARM. A robbery, burglary, panic, or other alarm intended to
summon the police, which is designed either to be initiated purposely by a
person or by an Alarm System that responds to a stimulus characteristic of
unauthorized intrusion.
   LOCAL ALARM. An Alarm System that emits a signal at an Alarm Site that is
audible or visible from the exterior of the structure.
   WARNING NOTICE. A notification provided to the owner or person in charge of
an Alarm Site by the County Sheriff's Office for alarms due to system
malfunction or when no reason can be determined for the False Alarm. The
WARNING NOTICE will require the Alarm System be inspected and/or serviced
within five working days with written documentation submitted to the Sheriff's
Office that the system is in working order.
§ 95.03 INTRUSION ALARMS.
   (A)   Each time the County Sheriff's Office responds to a false Intrusion
Alarm due to system malfunction or when no reason can be determined for such
False Alarm, the County Sheriff's Office shall issue a False Alarm Warning
Notice.
   (B)   A service fee for excessive false Intrusion Alarms shall be charged as
follows:
      (1)   No service fee shall be charged for the first three False Alarms
occurring within a 12-month period, calculated from the date of the first such
alarm;
   (C)   Each False Alarm in excess of three and up to and including six within
a 12-month period shall result in a service fee per False Alarm in accordance
with the current city fee schedule, as amended; and
   (D)   Each False Alarm in excess of six within a 12-month period shall
result in a service fee per False Alarm in accordance with the current city fee
schedule, as amended.
   (E)   No service fee shall be assessed if the False Alarm is:
      (1)   Caused by an electrical storm, tornado, or other act of God when
there is clear evidence of physical damage to the Alarm System;
      (2)   Caused by the intermittent disruption of telephone circuits beyond
the control of the Alarm Site owner;
      (3)   Caused by electrical power disruption or failure in excess of two
hours beyond the control of the Alarm Site owner; or
      (4)   At a location where the County Sheriff's Office has installed the
Varda or other similar alarms.
   (F)   All False Alarm service fees are due and payable within 30 days from
date of invoice. In the event that False Alarm service fees are not paid as
required by this chapter, the County Sheriff's Office may refer the matter to
the City Attorney for appropriate legal action, including, but not limited to,
certifying same for collection against the real property taxes as with other
unpaid municipal services.
   (G)   A person commits an offense in violation of this chapter if such
person suffers or permits False Alarms in excess of three within a 12-month
period, each such False Alarm constituting a separate violation.
Penalty, see §
10.99.
§ 95.04 FIRE OR EMERGENCY MEDICAL ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Each time the County Sheriff's Office or the Lower St. Croix Valley
Fire Protection District responds to a False Alarm due to system malfunction or
when no reason can be determined for such False Alarm, the County Sheriff's
Office or the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire Protection District shall issue a
Warning Notice.
   (B)   A service fee for excessive False Alarms shall be charged as follows:
      (1)   No service fee shall be charged for the first three False Alarms
occurring within a 12-month period, calculated from the date of the first such
alarm;
      (2)   Each False Alarm in excess of three and up to and including six
within a 12-month period shall result in a service fee per False Alarm in
accordance with the current city fee schedule, as amended;
      (3)   Each False Alarm in excess of six within a 12-month period shall
result in a service fee of per False Alarm in accordance with the current city
fee schedule, as amended.
   (C)   No service fee shall be assessed if the False Alarm is:
      (1)   Caused by an electrical storm, tornado, or other act of God where
there is clear evidence of damage to the Alarm System;
      (2)   Caused by the intermittent disruption of telephone circuits beyond
the control of the Alarm Site owner; or
      (3)   Caused by electrical lower disruption or failure in excess of two
hours beyond the control of the Alarm Site owner.
   (D)   All False Alarm service fees are due and payable within 30 days from
date of invoice. In the event that False Alarm service fees are not paid as
required by this chapter, the County Sheriff's Office may refer the matter to
the City Attorney for appropriate legal action, including, but not limited to,
certifying same for collection against real property taxes as with other unpaid
municipal services.
   (E)   A person commits an offense in violation of this chapter if such
person suffers or permits False Alarms in excess of three within a 12-month
period, each False Alarm constituting a separate violation.
Penalty, see §
10.99.
CHAPTER 96: SECURING VACANT BUILDINGS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Securing Vacant Buildings
   
96.03   Responding to the notice
   
96.04   Emergency securing of vacant buildings
   
96.05   Collection of costs
   
96.06   Neighborhood Associations
SECTION 96.01. DEFINITIONS
   For the purposes of this ordinance, the following terms shall have the
following meanings:
   CITY. The City of Lake St. Croix Beach, County of Washington County, State
of Minnesota.
   NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION. An organization recognized by the city as
representing a neighborhood within the city.
   SECURE. Includes, but is not limited to, installing locks, repairing windows
and doors, boarding windows, and doors, posting "no-trespassing" signs,
installing exterior lighting or motion-detecting lights, fencing the property,
and installing a monitored alarm or other security system consistent with Minn.
Stat. § 463.251.
   UNOCCUPIED BUILDING. A building which is not being used for a legal
occupancy.
   UNSECURED BUILDING. A building or a portion of a building that is open to
entry by unauthorized persons without the use of tools.
   VACANT BUILDING. A building or a portion of a building that meets one or
more of the following conditions:
   (A)   Unoccupied and foreclosed upon as identified by the county.
   (B)   Unoccupied and windows or entrances to the premises are boarded up or
closed off, or multiple window panes, are broken and unrepaired.
   (C)   Unoccupied and doors to the premises are smashed through, broken off,
unhinged, or continuously unlocked.
   (D)   Unoccupied and gas, electric, or water service to the premises has
been terminated.
   (E)   Unoccupied and rubbish, trash, or debris has accumulated on the
mortgaged premises.
   (F)   Unoccupied and the police or sheriff's office has received at least
two reports of trespassers on the premises, or of vandalism or other illegal
acts being committed on the premises.
   (G)   Unoccupied and the premises are deteriorating and are either below or
are in imminent danger of falling below minimum community standards for public
safety and sanitation.
SECTION 96.02. SECURING VACANT BUILDINGS
   In general, if any building becomes vacant or unoccupied and is deemed
hazardous due to the fact that the building is open to trespass and has not
been secured, and the building could be made safe by securing the building, the
city council may order the building secured and shall cause notice of the order
to be served consistent with Minn. Stat. § 463.251, subd. 2. The notice must be
served upon the owner of record of the premises or the owner's agent, the
taxpayer identified in the property tax records for the parcel, the holder of
the mortgage or sheriff's certificate, and any neighborhood association for the
neighborhood in which the building is located that has requested notice. The
notice is served by delivery or mail. The notice must be in writing and must
include, at a minimum, a statement that:
   (A)   Informs the owner and the holder of any mortgage or sheriff's
certificate of the requirements found in subdivision Minn. Stat. § 463.251,
subd. 3 that the owner or holder of the certificate has six (6) days to comply
with the order or provide the council with a reasonable plan and schedule to
comply with the order and that costs may be assessed against the property if
the person does not secure the building.
   (B)   Informs the owner and the holder of any mortgage or sheriff's
certificate that, within six (6) days of the ordering being served, the person
may request a hearing before the governing body challenging the governing
body's determination that the property is vacant or unoccupied and hazardous.
   (C)   Notifies the holder of any sheriff's certificate of the holder's duty
under Minn. Stat. § 582.031, subd. 1, paragraph (b, to enter the premises to
protect the premises from waste and trespass if the order is not challenged or
set aside and there is prima facie evidence of abandonment of the property as
described in Minn. Stat. § 582.032, subd. 7.
   Service by mail is completed upon mailing a copy of the order to the owner
by first class mail at the last known address.
SECTION 96.03. RESPONDING TO THE NOTICE
   The owner of the building or the holder of the sheriff's certificate of sale
has six (6) days after the order is served to do one of the following: 1)
comply with the order; 2) provide the council with a reasonable plan and
schedule to comply with the order; or 3) request a hearing before the city
council to challenge the council's determination that the property is vacant or
unoccupied and hazardous. If the owner or holder of the sheriff's certificate
fails to take one of these actions within the allotted time, the city council
must have the building properly secured.
SECTION 96.04. EMERGENCY SECURING OF VACANT BUILDINGS
   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 463.251, subd. 4,when the city building official,
police chief, or fire chief determines that an emergency exists with respect to
the health or safety of persons in the community and immediate boarding and
securing of a building is required, and where immediate danger will exist to
children, transients, or others members of the community without the immediate
boarding or securing of the building, the building official, police chief, or
fire chief may waive all notice requirements herein and immediately board or
otherwise secure the building, provided that:
   (A)   The conditions showing the existence of an emergency are documented in
writing by the building official, police chief, fire chief, or their designees.
   (B)   Notice is mailed immediately by the department invoking this Section
to the owner of record of the premises, the taxpayer identified in the property
tax records for the parcel, the holder of the mortgage or sheriff's
certificate, and any neighborhood association for the neighborhood in which the
building is located that has requested notice.
SECTION 96.05. COLLECTION OF COSTS
   All costs incurred by the city for securing a vacant building under this
ordinance may be charged against the real property as a special assessment
pursuant to Minn. Stat. §§ 463.251, 463.21, and 463.151
SECTION 96.06. NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATIONS
   The city council may work with neighborhood associations to develop and
implement plans to secure vacant buildings in a timely and cost-effective
fashion.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS PROVISIONS
      
111.   TOBACCO
      
112.   GAMBLING FACILITIES
      
113.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
114.   LICENSING AND REGISTRATION OF REAL PROPERTY USED AS RENTAL PROPERTY
      
115.   PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANT REGULATION
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS PROVISIONS
Section
Allegations of License Violations
   
110.01   Findings and purpose
   
110.02   Licenses and permits
   
110.03   Hearing requirements
   
110.04   Civil sanctions
   
110.05   Payment of fines
   
110.06   Revocation or suspension
ALLEGATIONS OF LICENSE VIOLATIONS
§ 110.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city regulates many types of activities. For many of these
activities, the city issues licenses or permits. Licenses or permits are issued
for those activities which have the most profound effect (or potential effect)
upon the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens. For example, licenses and
permits are issued for bars and retail liquor establishments, junkyards, the
sale of cigarettes, the operation of mining pits and other special uses of
property which require the City Council to be particularly aware of the
activities being conducted.
   (B)   From time to time, the city is also called upon to determine if the
holder of a license or a permit has violated the terms of that license or
permit. Similarly, there are sometimes allegations that the license or permit
holder has violated a statute, ordinance or rule which also regulates the
proper operation of that activity.
   (C)   Current city ordinances do not adequately establish a uniform
procedure for the city to determine if a violation has occurred. Ordinances
also do not adequately delineate what remedies are available to the city to
ensure that licenses and permits are properly followed in the future so as to
adequately protect the health, safety, and welfare of the city's residents.
   (D)   This chapter is designed to establish a uniform method of determining
whether or not violations have occurred. It is the intent of the City Council
to establish a system which would provide fair and adequate notice to the
permit/license holder of the alleged violation and a hearing before the City
Council. The possible penalties which are provided for are designed to protect
the public from future violations. Specifically, the sanctions should deter a
violator from engaging in future violations and should serve as a warning to
other individuals engaged in the same types of activities that the City Council
will respond appropriately to proven violations.
 § 110.02 LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   The terms of this chapter shall apply to all licenses and permits of any
kind issued by the city.
§ 110.03 HEARING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All hearings as envisioned within this chapter shall take place before
the City Council at the City Council chambers or at such other place as is
convenient and proper, given the nature of the matter under consideration.
   (B)   None of the civil sanctions authorized herein shall be imposed by the
City Council until the license/permit holder has been given an opportunity for
a hearing before the City Council.
   (C)   Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions found
within the state's Administrative Procedure Act (M.S. §§ 14.57 through 14.69,
as they may be amended from time to time).
   (D)   This chapter does not require the city to conduct its hearing before
an employee of the Office of Administrative Hearings. Rather, it is intended
that hearings will take place before the City Council.
§ 110.04 CIVIL SANCTIONS.
   If the City Council finds that a license or permit holder has failed to
comply with their license or permit, or has failed to comply with any
applicable statute, rule or ordinance related to the operation of the activity
for which a license or permit has been granted by the city, then the City
Council may revoke the license or permit, suspend the license or permit for a
period of up to 60 days, impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation or impose any combination of these sanctions.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 PAYMENT OF FINES.
   (A)   If the Council imposes a civil fine, the Council shall also allow the
license/permit holder a reasonable time to pay the fine. A "reasonable time to
pay" means that all fines shall be paid within 60 days unless the Council
determines that a longer period of time is justified under the circumstances of
the case.
   (B)   Failure of a license/permit holder to pay a fine within 60 days (or
within the time otherwise allowed by the Council) shall cause that license or
permit to become immediately suspended until full payment is received by the
City Clerk-Administrator.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Any license/permit holder who has had their license or permit suspended or
revoked pursuant to any of the terms of this chapter, shall not be allowed to
operate the activity which required the license or permit until the license or
permit is reinstated. Any operation during a period of suspension or revocation
shall be deemed to be an additional violation of the terms of the permit or
license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: TOBACCO
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions and interpretation
   
111.03   Responsibility
   
111.04   Compliance Checks and inspections
   
111.05   Illegal acts
   
111.06   Exceptions and defenses to violations
   
111.07   Age of clerks; restrictions
   
111.08   Signage
License Regulations
   
111.20   License required
   
111.21   Application
   
111.22   Action
   
111.23   Term
   
111.24   Revocation or suspension
   
111.25   Transfers
   
111.26   Moveable Place of Business
   
111.27   Display
   
111.28   Renewals
   
111.29   Fees
   
111.30   Basis for license denial
Types of Sales
   
111.45   Prohibited Sales
   
111.46   Vending Machines
   
111.47   Self-service Sales
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   Because the city recognizes that many persons under the age of 18 years
purchase or otherwise obtain, possess and use Tobacco, Tobacco Products and
Tobacco-Related Devices; and because studies, which the city hereby accepts and
adopts, have shown that most smokers begin Smoking before they have reached the
age of 18 years, and that those persons who reach the age of 18 years without
having started Smoking are significantly less likely to begin Smoking; and
because Smoking has been shown to be the cause of several serious health
problems which subsequently place a financial burden on all levels of
government; this chapter shall be intended to regulate the Sale, possession and
use of Tobacco, Tobacco Products and Tobacco-Related Devices for the purpose of
enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect minors against the serious
effects associated with the illegal use of Tobacco, Tobacco Products and
Tobacco-Related Devices, and to further the official public policy of the state
in regard to preventing young people from starting to smoke as stated in M.S. §
144.391, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all
terms shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The singular shall
include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. The masculine
shall include the feminine and neuter, and vice-versa. The term SHALL means
mandatory and the term MAY means permissive.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD-RESISTANT PACKAGING. Packaging that meets the definition set forth in
Code of Federal Regulations, title 16, section 1700.15(b), as in effect on
January 1, 2015, and was tested in accordance with the method described in Code
of Federal Regulations, title 16, section 1700.20, as in effect on January 1,
2015.
   CIGAR. Any roll of tobacco that is wrapped in tobacco leaf or in any other
substance containing tobacco, with or without a tip or mouthpiece, which is not
a cigarette as defined in Minn. Stat. § 297F.01, subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products and Tobacco-Related Devices
are following and complying with the requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE
CHECKS involve the use of persons under the age of 21 who purchase or attempt
to purchase Licensed Products. COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be conducted by the
city or other units of government for educational, research, and training
purposes or for investigating or enforcing federal, state, or local laws and
regulations relating to Licensed Products.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering Nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance, whether natural or synthetic, intended for
human consumption through the inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes, but is not limited to, devices
manufactured, marketed, or sold as e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens,
mods, tank systems, or under any other product name or descriptor. ELECTRONIC
DELIVERY DEVICE includes any component part of a product, whether or not
marketed or sold separately. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE does not include any
Nicotine cessation product that has been authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to be marketed and for Sale as "drugs," "devices," or
"combination products," as defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   DELIVERY SALE. The Sale of any licensed product to any person for personal
consumption and not for resale when the Sale is conducted by any means other
than an in-person, over-the counter Sales transaction in a licensed Retail
Establishment. DELIVERY SALE includes but is not limited to the Sale of any
licensed product when the Sale is conducted by telephone, other voice
transmission, mail, the internet, or app-based service. DELIVERY SALE includes
delivery by licensees or third parties by any means, including curbside pick-
up.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering Nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance, whether natural or synthetic, intended for
human consumption through the inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes, but is not limited to, devices
manufactured, marketed, or sold as e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens,
mods, tank systems, or under any other product name or descriptor. ELECTRONIC
DELIVERY DEVICE includes any component part of a product, whether or not
marketed or sold separately. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE does not include any
Nicotine cessation product that has been authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to be marketed and for Sale as "drugs," "devices," or
"combination products," as defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   IMITATION TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any edible non-tobacco product designed to
resemble a tobacco product, or any non-edible tobacco product designed to
resemble a tobacco product and intended to be used by children as a toy.
IMITATION TOBACCO PRODUCT includes, but is not limited to, candy or chocolate
cigarettes, bubble gum cigars, shredded bubble gum resembling chewing tobacco,
and shredded beef jerky in containers resembling tobacco snuff tins. IMITATION
TOBACCO PRODUCT does not include Electronic Delivery Devices or Nicotine or
Lobelia Delivery Products.
   INDOOR AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded by
walls, doorways, or windows, whether open or closed, covering more than 50
percent of the combined surface area of the vertical planes constituting the
perimeter of the area. A wall includes any retractable divider, garage door, or
other physical barrier, whether temporary or permanent.
   LICENSED PRODUCTS. The term that collectively refers to any tobacco,
tobacco-related device, Electronic Delivery Device, or Nicotine or Lobelia
Delivery Product.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for Sale. INDIVIDUALLY WRAPPED tobacco and tobacco
products shall include, but not be limited to single cigarette packs, single
bags, or cans of loose tobacco in any form and single cans or other packaging
of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this subdivision shall not be
considered INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED.
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to single cigarettes, cigars, and any
other Licensed Products that have been removed from their original retail
packaging and offered for Sale. LOOSIES does not include premium cigars that
are hand-constructed, have a wrapper made entirely from whole tobacco leaf, and
have a filler and binder made entirely of tobacco, except for adhesives or
other materials used to maintain size, texture, or flavor. MINOR. Any natural
person who has not yet reached the age of 18 years.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Refers to any form of business operated out of a
truck, van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and
not a fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized
for Sales transactions.
   NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCT. Any product containing or delivering
Nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, or any part of such a
product, that is not tobacco or an Electronic Delivery Device as defined in
this section. NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCT does not include any
Nicotine cessation product that has been authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to be marketed and for Sale as "drugs," "devices," or
"combination products," as defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where Licensed Products Licensed
Products are available for Sale to the general public. RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
shall include, but not be limited to, grocery stores, convenience stores,
restaurants, and bars.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter, or other
consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of Licensed Products in any way
where any person shall have access to the product without the assistance or
intervention of an employee of the premises maintaining the SELF-SERVICE
MERCHANDISING. SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING shall not include Vending Machines.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, or pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing,
made, or derived from Nicotine, tobacco, marijuana, or other plant, whether
natural or synthetic, that is intended for inhalation. SMOKING also includes
carrying or using an activated electronic delivery device.
   Tobacco or Tobacco Products. Any substance or item containing made, or
derived from tobacco that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed,
smoked, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any
other means, or any component, part, or accessory of a tobacco product,
including, but not limited to, cigars; cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated,
plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other Smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff
flour; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and other chewing tobacco;
shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and sweepings of tobacco, and other
kinds and forms of tobacco; but does not include cigarettes as defined in this
section. Tobacco products includes Nicotine solution products. Tobacco products
excludes any tobacco product that has been approved by the United States Food
and Drug Administration for Sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco
dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and
sold solely for such an approved purpose.
   TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES. Any rolling papers, wraps, pipes, or other device
intentionally designed or intended to be used with tobacco products. TOBACCO-
RELATED DEVICE includes components of Tobacco-Related Devices or tobacco
products, which may be marketed or sold separately. TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES may
or may not contain tobacco.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric, or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses Licensed Products upon the insertion of money, tokens,
or other form of payment directly into the MACHINE by the person seeking to
purchase the tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related device.
§ 111.03 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the Sale of Licensed Products on the licensed
premises, and the Sale of such an item by an employee shall also be considered
a Sale by the license holder, and each can be held responsible for any criminal
and/or civil penalties imposed herein.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by law enforcement
officers or other authorized city official during regular business hours. From
time to time, but at least once per year, the city shall conduct Compliance
Checks. In accordance with state law, the city will conduct a Compliance Check
that involves the participation of a person at least 17 years of age, but under
the age of 21 to enter the licensed premises to attempt to purchase Licensed
Products. Prior written consent from a parent or guardian is required for any
person under the age of 18 to participate in a Compliance Check. Minors used
for the purpose of Compliance Checks shall not be guilty of unlawful possession
of Licensed Products when such items are obtained as a part of the Compliance
Check. Retail Establishments possessing a Class A license shall be subject to
at least two Compliance Checks per year. Persons used for the purpose of
Compliance Checks will be supervised by law enforcement or other designated
personnel.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 ILLEGAL ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter.
   (A)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to have in their possession any Tobacco, Tobacco product or Tobacco-
Related Device. This division (A) shall not apply to minors lawfully involved
in a Compliance Check on behalf of the city.
   (B)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to
smoke, chew, sniff or otherwise use any Tobacco, Tobacco Product or Tobacco-
Related Device.
   (C)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any Tobacco,
Tobacco Product or Tobacco-Related Device, and it shall be a violation of this
chapter for any person to purchase or otherwise obtain such items on behalf of
a minor. It shall also be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or
otherwise provide any Tobacco, Tobacco Product or Tobacco-Related Device to any
minor, and it shall further be a violation for any person to coerce or attempt
to coerce a minor to illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any Tobacco,
Tobacco Product or Tobacco-Related Device. This division (C) shall not apply to
minors lawfully involved in a Compliance Check on behalf of the city.
   (D)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any minor to attempt to disguise their true age by the use of a false form
of identification, whether the identification is that of another person or one
on which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with to represent
an age older than the actual age of the person. This division (D) shall not
apply to minors lawfully involved in a Compliance Check on behalf of the city.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES TO VIOLATIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of Licensed Products to
a minor as part of a lawfully recognized religious, spiritual, or cultural
ceremony. It shall be an affirmative defense to the violation of this chapter
for a person to have reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state
law.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 AGE OF CLERKS; RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be illegal for a Retail Establishment to cause or permit a person
under the age of 18 years to sell Licensed Products. It shall also be illegal
for any person under the age of 18 years to sell Licensed Products.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 SIGNAGE.
   Anyone holding a Tobacco license under the provisions of this chapter shall
post and display in plain view of the general public on the licensed premises a
sign indicating that it is illegal to sell Tobacco, Tobacco Products and
Tobacco-Related Devices to anyone under the age of 21 years, and that the
possession and use of such items by minors is also illegal under both state law
and local ordinance. Said signs shall be of a type approved by city staff and
issued to a Retail Establishment at the time that a license is obtained. The
cost of said sign shall be included within the licensing fee.
Penalty, see §
111.99
LICENSE REGULATIONS
§ 111.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell or offer to sell any Tobacco, Tobacco Products or
Tobacco-Related Device without first having obtained a license to do so from
the city.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.21 APPLICATION.
   An application for a license to sell Licensed Products shall be made on a
form provided by the city. The application shall contain the full name of the
applicant, the applicant's residential and business addresses and telephone
numbers, the name of the business for which the license is sought and any
additional information the city deems necessary. Upon receipt of a completed
application, the City Clerk-Administrator shall forward the application to the
Council for action at its next regularly scheduled Council meeting. If the City
Clerk-Administrator shall determine that an application is incomplete, they
shall return the application to the applicant with notice of the information
necessary to make the action complete.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.22 ACTION.
   The Council may either approve or deny the license, or it may delay action
for such reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any investigation
of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the Council shall
approve the license, the City Clerk-Administrator shall issue the license to
the applicant. If the Council denies the license, notice of the denial shall be
given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant's right to appeal the
Council's decision.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.23 TERM.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for one calendar year
from the date of issue.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.24 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Any license issued under this chapter may be revoked or suspended as
provided in §
111.99.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.25 TRANSFERS.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only on the premises
for which the license was issued and only for the person to whom the license
was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or person shall be
valid without the prior approval of the Council.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.26 MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   No license shall be issued to a Moveable Place Of Business. Only fixed
location businesses shall be eligible to be licensed under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.27 DISPLAY.
   All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of the general
public on the licensed premises.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.28 RENEWALS.
   The renewal of a license issued under this chapter shall be handled in the
same manner as the original application. The request for a renewal shall be
made at least 30 days but no more than 60 days before the expiration of the
current license. The issuance of a license issued under this chapter shall be
considered a privilege and not an absolute right of the applicant and shall not
entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the license.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.29 FEES.
   (A)   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate
license fee shall be paid in full. Fees shall be in accordance with the current
city fee schedule, as amended
§ 111.30 BASIS FOR LICENSE DENIAL.
   The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a
license under this chapter, and if a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to
a person, it shall be revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible
for the license under this section.
   (A)   The applicant is under the age of 21 years.
   (B)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation relating to Tobacco or Tobacco Products, or Tobacco-Related Devices.
   (C)   The applicant has had a license to sell Licensed Products revoked in
the city, or at any other place, within the preceding 12 months of the date of
application.
   (D)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information.
   (E)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation from holding such a license.
Penalty, see §
111.99
TYPES OF SALES
§ 111.45 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to
sell any Tobacco, Tobacco Product or Tobacco-Related Device:
   (A)   To any person under the age of 21 years;
   (B)   By means of any type of Vending Machine;
   (C)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need to
make a verbal or written request to an employee of a licensed premises in order
to receive the Tobacco, Tobacco Product or Tobacco-Related Device;
   (D)   By means of "Loosies" as defined in §
111.02;
   (A)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, belladonna, strychnos,
cocaine, or other type of deleterious, hallucinogenic or toxic or controlled
substance except Nicotine and not naturally found in Tobacco or Tobacco
Products; or
   (F)   By any other means or to any other person, prohibited by federal,
state, or other local law, ordinance provision or other regulation.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.46 VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to allow the
Sale of Licensed Products by the means of a Vending Machine.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.47 SELF-SERVICE SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to allow the Sale of
Licensed Products by any means whereby the customer may have access to such
items without having to request the item from the licensee or the licensee's
employee. All Tobacco, Tobacco Products and Tobacco-Related Devices shall be
accessible only from behind the counter or other area not freely accessible to
customers.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal penalty. Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor in accordance with
Minnesota Statute 609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be amended from time to time; and
the cost of prosecution may be added pursuant to Minn. Stat. §631.48. Each
violation and every day in which a violation occurs or continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Civil penalty. The provisions of city civil penalty ordinance, Chapter
1103, shall apply to any and all licenses issued hereunder. If a Retail
Establishment has its Tobacco license suspended pursuant to a hearing conducted
under the city's civil penalty ordinance, that Retail Establishment shall,
during the period of suspension, remove all Tobacco, Tobacco Products and
Tobacco-Related Devices away from public view.
CHAPTER 112: GAMBLING FACILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Purpose and intent
   
112.03   Gambling a privilege
   
112.04   State law adopted
   
112.05   Non-licensed gambling
   
112.06   State-licensed Organizations; local approval, obligations
   
112.07   Effective date
Regulations and Conditions
   
112.20   Use of proceeds of charitable gambling
   
112.21   Premises; leased premises
   
112.22   Minimum age
   
112.23   Hours of operation
   
112.24   Employees
   
112.25   Authorized persons
   
112.26   Financial reports
   
112.27   Fees and licenses
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
ACTIVE MEMBER. A member who has paid all of their dues to the Organization and
has been a MEMBER of the Organization for at least six months.
BINGO. A game where each player has a card or board, for which a consideration
has been paid, containing five horizontal rows of spaces, with each row, except
the center one, containing five figures. The central row has four figures with
the word "free" marked in the center space thereof. BINGO also includes games
which are as described in this division, except for the use of cards, where the
figures are not preprinted, but are filled in by the players. A player wins a
game of BINGO by completing a preannounced combination of spaces or, in the
absence of a preannouncement of a combination of spaces, any combination of
five spaces in a row, either vertical, horizontal, or diagonal.
BINGO OCCASION. A single gathering or session at which a series of one or more
successive BINGO games is played.
CHECKER. A person who records the number of Bingo cards purchased and played
during each game and records the prizes awarded to the recorded cards, but does
not collect the payment for the cards.
ELECTRONIC GAMING DEVICE. A hand-held and portable ELECTRONIC DEVICE used to
play electronic Pull-Tabs and/or linked Bingo games. The DEVICE cannot accept
any coin or currency, though players may play "credits" from previous winning
games or tickets.
ELECTRONIC GAMBLING EQUIPMENT. "Electronic Gambling Equipment" means:
   (A)   electronic Pull-Tab devices;
   (B)   electronic Bingo devices;
   (C)   programmable electronic devices;
   (D)   electronic Pull-Tab systems;
   (E)   electronic linked Bingo game systems;
   (F)   electronic Paddlewheels;
   (G)   upgrades or changes to previously approved and tested equipment;
   (H)   other technical hardware devices used in conjunction with Lawful
Gambling Equipment; and
   (I)   software applications and version upgrades used in conjunction with
Lawful Gambling Equipment.
GAMBLING EQUIPMENT. Bingo cards and devices for selecting Bingo numbers, Pull-
Tabs, ticket jars, Paddlewheels and Tipboards.
GAMBLING MANAGER. A person who has paid all dues to an Organization and has
been a member of the Organization for at least two years and has been
designated by the Organization to supervise Lawful Gambling conducted by it.
LAWFUL GAMBLING. The operation, conduct or sale of Bingo, Raffles,
Paddlewheels, Tipboards and Pull-Tabs.
LAWFUL PURPOSE. As defined by M.S. § 349.12, subd. 25, as it may be amended
from time to time.
LOCAL TRADE AREA. Includes Afton, St. Mary's Point, Lakeland, Lakeland Shores
and any other city and township located contiguous to the city within the
county.
ORGANIZATION. Any fraternal, religious, veterans or other nonprofit
ORGANIZATION.
PADDLEWHEEL. A wheel marked off into sections containing one or more numbers,
and which, after being turned or spun, uses a pointer or marker to indicate
winning chances.
PROFIT. The gross receipts collected from Lawful Gambling, less reasonable sums
necessarily and actually expended for prizes and taxes imposed by this chapter.
PULL-TAB. A single folded or banded ticket or a card with a face covered to
conceal one or more numbers or symbols, where one or more of each set of
tickets or cards has been designated in advance as a winner. PULL-TAB includes
a ticket sold in a gambling device known as a ticket jar.
RAFFLE. A game in which a participant buys a ticket for a chance at a prize
with the winner determined by a random drawing to take place at a location and
date printed upon the ticket.
TIPBOARD. A board, placard or other device marked off in a grid or columns, in
which each section contains a hidden number or numbers, or other symbol which
determines the winning chances.
§ 112.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This chapter is enacted to promote the health, safety and general welfare of
the inhabitants of the city by closely regulating the conduct of Lawful
Gambling.
§ 112.03 GAMBLING A PRIVILEGE.
   The City Council finds that Lawful Gambling is a nuisance-prone activity
and, as such, is subject to restrictive regulation. The Council further finds
and declares that the ability to conduct Lawful Gambling and participate in
Lawful Gambling is a privilege rather than a right.
§ 112.04 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 349, as it may be amended from time to time,
relating to the definition of terms, licensing and restrictions of Lawful
Gambling, are adopted and made a part of this section as if set out in full.
§ 112.05 NON-LICENSED GAMBLING.
   This chapter shall not regulate the conduct of non-licensed gambling as
defined by M.S. Chapter 349, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 112.06 STATE-LICENSED ORGANIZATIONS; LOCAL APPROVAL, OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.S. § 349.213, as it may be amended from time to time,
the Charitable Gambling Control Board for the state must notify the City
Council before issuing or renewing an Organization license for Lawful Gambling
at the state level for those Organizations whose premises are located within
the city. If the City Council adopts a resolution disapproving the state
license and so informs the Board within 30 days of such notice, the license may
not be issued or renewed. All applications shall be acted upon within 90 days
of the date of application or deemed approved.
   (B)   The applicant shall provide to the City Clerk-Administrator copies of
all information which such Organization provides to the Charitable Gambling
Control Board. Such copies shall be provided to the City Clerk-Administrator
within seven days after the state-licensed Organization sends such information
to the state. Failure of the applicant to provide such copies shall constitute
a basis for disapproval of the license or renewal by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter becomes effective on the date of its publication, or upon the
publication of a summary of the ordinance as provided by M.S. § 412.191, subd.
4, as it may be amended from time to time, which meets the requirements of M.S.
§ 331A.01. subd. 10, as it may be amended from time to time.
REGULATIONS AND CONDITIONS
§ 112.20 USE OF PROCEEDS OF CHARITABLE GAMBLING.
   (A)   Each Organization licensed to conduct Lawful Gambling within the city
pursuant to M.S. § 349.16, as it may be amended from time to time, with the
exception of Lawful Gambling excluded or exempted from state licensure
requirements by M.S. § 349.166, as it may be amended from time to time, shall
contribute 10% of the net Profits derived from Lawful Gambling in the city to a
fund administered and regulated by the city without cost to the fund. The city
shall disburse the funds for charitable contributions as defined by M.S. §
349.12, subd. 7a, as it may be amended from time to time. Payment under this
section shall be made on the last day of each quarter. The city's use of such
funds shall be determined at the time of adoption of the city's annual budget
or when the budget is amended.
   (B)   Each Organization licensed to conduct gambling within the city shall
also expend 50% of the net Profits on Lawful Purposes conducted within the
city's Local Trade Area. This section applies only to Lawful Purpose
expenditures of net Profits derived from gambling conducted at a premises
within the city's jurisdiction.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, net Profits proceeds shall be
computed as follows: gross receipts from Lawful Gambling less reasonable sums
necessarily and actually expended for the following items:
      (1)   Prizes;
      (2)   Gambling supplies and equipment, which shall be defined as those
expenses authorized by the Charitable Gambling Board in adopted rules,
specifically subpart 2(B) of Adopted Rule 7860.160;
      (3)   Rent;
      (4)   Utilities used during gambling occasions;
      (5)   Compensation paid to members for conducting Lawful Gambling
activities;
      (6)   State or federal taxes; and
      (7)   Maintenance of devices used in Lawful Gambling.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 PREMISES; LEASED PREMISES.
   (A)   The use of or sale of Lawful Gambling supplies and equipment described
as Pull-Tabs, Paddlewheels and Tipboards shall be allowed on the premises owned
or leased by eligible Organizations, as defined in division (B) below.
   (1990)   In leased locations authorized by this section, with the exception
of Electronic Gaming Devices, the Lawful Gambling activity, and the sale of
Pull-Tabs, Tipboards and the operation of Paddlewheels shall take place in a
designated area of the leased premises, which area shall be separate from the
counter, bar, or service area. No sale of on sale or off sale liquor shall be
allowed within the leased area. Locations authorized by this section which are
owned by the licensed Organization need not designate such a location within
the premises.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.22 MINIMUM AGE.
   Only those persons who have reached the age at which they are allowed to
lawfully gamble by state statutes shall be allowed to participate in the Lawful
Gambling activity or shall be employed by the Organization issued the Lawful
Gambling license for the operation, conduct or sale of Bingo, Raffles,
Paddlewheels, Tipboards, and Pull-Tabs.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.23 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The use of sale of Lawful Gambling supplies and equipment, including
Pull-Tabs, Paddlewheels and Tipboards, shall be allowed on premises owned or
leased by those Organizations eligible for a Lawful Gambling license, pursuant
to §
112.21, only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, the conduct of Bingo and sale of
Raffle tickets shall be allowed on Sundays and legal holidays when not
prohibited by M.S. Chapter 349, as it may be amended from time to time, and any
amendments thereto.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.24 EMPLOYEES.
   Compensation to persons who participate in the conduct of Lawful Gambling
may be paid only to Active Members of the conducting Organization or its
auxiliary, or to the spouse or the surviving spouse of an Active Member, or to
employees hired by the licensed Organization.
§ 112.25 AUTHORIZED PERSONS.
   Only an Active Member, or the spouse or surviving spouse, or Active Member
of the licensed Organization, or an employee hired by the licensed Organization
shall be involved in the operation, conduct or sale of Lawful Gambling
activities in the city. The owner or employee of conducting a Lawful Gambling
activity, may not be involved in the operation, conduct or sale of Lawful
Gambling activities while they are then on duty with the lessor.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.26 FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   Each Organization which is licensed to conduct Lawful Gambling within the
city shall provide the City Clerk-Administrator with a copy of all financial
reports submitted to the State Charitable Gambling Control Board on a quarterly
basis if there is any charitable gambling by the Organization within the
reporting period.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.27 FEES AND LICENSES.
   To the extent allowed by state law, the licensing fee shall be in accordance
with the current city fee schedule, as amended. The resolution may set fees for
application, processing of any application, including whatever amounts are
deemed appropriate to defray the cost of investigation of the proposed
applicant by the Council or City Clerk-Administrator and to make a
determination of the propriety of granting the license. The City Clerk-
Administrator shall prepare a local application form and shall include
verification that the applicant agrees to abide by all local ordinances
concerning the conduct of licensed Lawful Gambling.
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall do or commit any act that is forbidden by the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished in accordance with Minnesota Statute
609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be amended from time to time; and the cost of
prosecution may be added pursuant to Minn. Stat. §631.48. In addition,
violations shall be reported to the Gambling Control Board and recommendation
shall be made for suspension, revocation, or cancellation of an Organization's
license.
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.001. ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating Liquor and 3.2 percent malt Liquor are hereby adopted by
reference and are made a part of this Chapter as if set out in full. It is the
intention of the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A are
hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at
the time this Chapter is adopted.
§ 113.002. CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
§ 113.003. DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in Minn. Stat. § 340A.101 as it may
be amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of
this ordinance:
   LIQUOR. As used in this ordinance, without modification by the words
"intoxicating" or a "3.2 percent malt" includes both intoxicating Liquor and
3.2 percent malt Liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a Restaurant as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by Minn. Stat. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time,
and meet the definition of either a "small establishment," "medium
establishment" or "large establishment" as defined in Minn. Stat. § 157.16,
subd. 3(d), as it may be amended from time to time. An establishment which
serves prepackaged food that receives heat treatment and is served in the
package or frozen pizza that is heated and served, shall not be considered to
be a Restaurant for purposes of this ordinance unless it meets the definitions
of a "small establishment", "medium establishment" or "large establishment".
§ 113.004. NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this ordinance. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
ordinance, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have their buttocks,
anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non-transparent material. It is
unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person does not
have their buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non-transparent
material.
   (C) A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable in accordance
with Minnesota Statute 609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be amended from time to time;
and the cost of prosecution may be added pursuant to Minn. Stat. §631.48, and
is justification for revocation or suspension of any Liquor, wine, or 3.2
percent malt Liquor license or any other license issued under this ordinance or
the imposition of a civil penalty under the provisions of Section 30(B).
§ 113.005. CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume intoxicating Liquor or 3.2 percent malt Liquor in a
public park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley, or in any
public place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed under this
ordinance, in a municipal Liquor dispensary if one exists in the city, or where
the consumption and display of Liquor is lawfully permitted.
§ 113.006.   RAFFLES, SILENT AUCTIONS AND FUND RAISING EVENTS FOR CHARITABLE
PURPOSES OF WINE, BEER OR INTOXICATING LIQUORS
   No person shall conduct a silent auction, raffle of other fund raising event
pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 340A.707 with prizes or awards of wine, beer, or
intoxicating Liquors without notifying the City Clerk-Administrator of the
event at least ten days prior to the occurrence of the event. The event holder
shall provide the city with the following information: the person or
organization holding the event, the day, time and location of the event, type
of fund raising event (silent auction, raffle or otherwise), type and amount of
wine, beer, intoxicating Liquor to be awarded as prizes, and the charitable
purposes to which the event proceeds will be donated.
§ 113.008. TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 113.009. KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council of a city that does not have a municipal Liquor store is
authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to the number
specified in Section 113.007.
   (A)   3.2 percent malt Liquor on-sale licenses may be issued only to golf
courses, Restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments used
exclusively for the sale of 3.2 percent malt Liquor with the incidental sale of
tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   3.2 percent malt Liquor off-sale licenses may be issued within the
city.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2 percent malt Liquor licenses may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating Liquor licenses may be issued only to exclusive
Liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was first
issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off-sale intoxicating Liquor
license established by the Council under Section 10 shall not exceed $240 or a
greater amount which may be permitted by Minn. Stat. § 340A.408, subd. 3, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating Liquor licenses may be issued to the following
establishments as defined by Minn. Stat. § 340A.101, as it may be amended from
time to time, and this ordinance: hotels, Restaurants, bowling centers,
theaters, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans' organizations, theaters,
resorts as defined by Minn. Stat. § 157.15, subd. 11, and exclusive Liquor
stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of the Commissioner
of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the Council under
Section 10 of this ordinance shall not exceed the amounts provided for in Minn.
Stat. § 340A.408, subd. 2(b) as it may be amended from time to time. The
Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale licensee to
dispense intoxicating Liquor off the licensed premises at a community festival
held within the city under the provisions of Minn. Stat. § 340A.404, subd. 4(b)
as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may in its sound discretion
authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating Liquor off the
licensed premises at any convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social
affair conducted on the premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility
owned by the city, under the provisions of Minn. Stat. § 340A.404, subd. 4(a)
as it may be amended from time to time; however, the licensee is prohibited
from dispensing intoxicating Liquor to any person attending or participating in
an amateur athletic event being held on the premises.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating Liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by
Minn. Stat. § 340A.504, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday
on-sale intoxicating Liquor licenses may be issued only to a Restaurant as
defined in Section 3 of this ordinance, club, bowling center, or hotel which
has a seating capacity of at least 30 persons, which holds an on-sale
intoxicating Liquor license, and which serves Liquor only in conjunction with
the service of food. The maximum fee for this license, which shall be
established by the Council under the provisions of Section 10 of this
ordinance, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by Minn. Stat.
§ 340A.504, subd. 3(c) as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating Liquor licenses may be
issued to eligible licensees in lieu of separate on-sale and off-sale licenses.
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating Liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued only in connection with a
social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least three years; a political committee
registered under state law; or a state university. No license shall be for
longer than four consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12
days' worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year.
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety may be issued to theaters, Restaurants that have facilities for seating
at least 25 guests at one time and meet the criteria of Minn. Stat. § 340A.404,
subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time, and which meet the definition
of Restaurant in section 3; to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet
the criteria in Minn. Stat. § 340A.4011, subd. 1, as it may be amended from
time to time and to theaters that meet the criteria of Minn. Stat. § 340A.404,
subd. 1(b) as it may be amended from time to time. The fee for an on-sale wine
license established by the Council under the provisions of Section 10 of this
ordinance, shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating Liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2 percent malt Liquor license is authorized to sell malt
Liquor with a content over 3.2 percent (strong beer) without an additional
license.
   (J)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety may be issued to a nonprofit organization in
conjunction with a social activity in the city sponsored by the organization.
   (K)   Approval may be issued to recipient of a consumption and display
permit by the Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the
additional fee which may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been
issued a consumption and display permit under the provisions of Section 10 of
this ordinance shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by Minn.
Stat. § 340A.414, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption
and display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year.
   (L)   Culinary class limited on-sale licenses may be issued to a business
establishment not otherwise eligible for an on-sale intoxicating Liquor license
that, as part of its business, conducts culinary or cooking classes for which
payment is made by each participant or advance reservation required. The
license authorizes the licensee to furnish to each participant in each class,
at no additional cost to the participant, up to a maximum of six ounces of wine
or 12 ounces of intoxicating malt Liquor, during and as part of the class, for
consumption on the licensed premises only.
   (M)   Temporary off-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commission
of Public Safety, may be issued for the off-sale of wine at an auction. A
license issued under this subdivision authorizes the sale of only vintage wine
of a brand and vintage that is not commonly being offered for sale by any
wholesaler in Minnesota. The license may authorize the off-sale of wine for not
more than three consecutive days provided not more than 600 cases of wine are
sold at any auction. The licenses are subject to the terms, including license
fee, imposed by Section 10.
   (N)   Brew pub on-sale intoxicating Liquor or on-sale 3.2 percent malt
Liquor licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, may be
issued to brewers who operate a Restaurant in their place of manufacture and
who meet the criteria established at Minn. Stat. § 340A.24, as it may be
amended from time to time. Sales under this license at on-sale may not exceed
3,500 barrels per year. If a brew pub licensed under this section possesses a
license for off-sale under Section 113.009 (O) below, the brew pub's total
combined retail sales at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per
year, provided that off-sales may not total more than 750 barrels.
   (O)   Brewer off-sale malt Liquor licenses, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued to a brewer that is a licensee
under Section 113.009 (N) above and otherwise meets the criteria established at
Minn. Stat. § 340A.24, as it may be amended from time to time. Off-sale of malt
Liquor shall be limited to the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive Liquor
stores in the city. Malt Liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the premises
before the applicable off-sale closing time at exclusive Liquor stores. All
malt Liquor sold under this license shall be packaged in the manner required by
Minn. Stat. § 340A.285 as it may be amended from time to time. Sales under this
license may not exceed 750 barrels per year. If a brewer licensed under this
section possesses a license under Section 113.009 (N) above, the brewer's total
retail sales at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per year,
provided that off-sales may not total more than 750 barrels.
   (P)   Brewer off-sale malt Liquor licenses may be issued, with approval of
the Commissioner, to a holder of a brewer's license under Minn. Stat. §
340A.301, subd. 6(c), (i) or (j) and meeting the criteria established by Minn.
Stat. § 340A.28 as may be amended from time to time. The amount of malt Liquor
sold at off-sale may not exceed 750 barrels annually. Off-sale of malt Liquor
shall be limited to the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive Liquor stores in
the jurisdiction in which the brewer is located, and the malt Liquor sold off-
sale must be removed from the premises before the applicable off-sale closing
time at exclusive Liquor stores. Packaging of malt Liquor for off-sale under
this license must comply with Minn. Stat. § 340A.285.
   Notwithstanding any law to the contrary and in addition to the authority
provided in Minn. Stat. § 340A.28, a Brewer off-sale malt Liquor license may be
issued, with approval of the Commissioner, to a holder of a brewer's license
under Minn. Stat. § 340A.301, subd. 6(c), (i) or (j) and meeting the criteria
established by Minn. Stat. § 340A.29 as may be amended from time to time, for
off-sale of up to 128 ounces per customer per day of malt Liquor produced and
packaged by the holder. Packaging of malt Liquor for off-sale under this
license must comply with Minnesota Rules, parts 7515.1080 to 7515.1120.
   (Q)   Brewer temporary on-sale intoxicating Liquor licenses may be issued,
with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, to brewers who
manufacture fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt Liquor in a year for the on-sale
of intoxicating Liquor in connection with a social event within the
municipality sponsored by the brewer.
   (R)   Brewer taproom licenses may be issued to the holder of a brewer's
license under Minn. Stat. § 340A.301, subd. 6(c), (i) or (j) as it may amended
from time to time. A brewer's taproom license authorizes on-sale of malt Liquor
produced by the brewer for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one
brewery location owned by the brewer. A brewer may have only one taproom
license and may not have an ownership interest in a brewer licensed under Minn.
Stat. § 340A.301, subd. 6(d) as it may be amended from time to time. A brewer
taproom license may not be issued to a brewer that brews more than 250,000
barrels of malt Liquor annually or a winery that produces more than 250,000
gallons of wine annually. Within ten days of issuing a brewer taproom license
the City Clerk-Administrator will inform the Commissioner of Public Safety of
the licensee's name, address, trade name and the effective date and expiration
date of the license. The City Clerk-Administrator will inform the Commissioner
of Public Safety of a license transfer, cancellation, suspension, or revocation
during the license period.
   (S)   A cocktail room license may be issued to the holder of a state
microdistillery license or distilled spirits manufacturer license if at least
50 percent of the annual production of the licensee is processed and distilled
on premises. A cocktail room license authorizes on-sale of distilled Liquor
produced by the distiller for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one
distillery location owned by the distiller. The holder of a cocktail room
license may also hold a license to operate a Restaurant at the distillery. No
more than one cocktail room license may be issued to any distiller. No single
entity may hold both a microdistillery cocktail room and taproom license and a
microdistillery cocktail room and taproom license may not be co-located.
   (T)   A microdistiller off-sale license may be issued to the holder of a
state microdistillery license if at least 50 percent of the annual production
of the licensee is processed and distilled on premises. A microdistiller off-
sale license authorizes off-sale of up to 750 milliliters per customer per day
of product manufactured on-site provided the product is also available for
distribution to wholesalers.
   (U)   A microdistiller temporary on-sale intoxicating Liquor license may be
issued to the holder of a state microdistillery license. A microdistillery
temporary on-sale intoxicating Liquor license authorizes on-sale of
intoxicating Liquor in connection with a social event within the city sponsored
by the microdistillery.
§ 113.010. LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by Minn. Stat. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
for a Liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time in the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges the fee for any of the Liquor licenses it is
authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the
license and other costs directly related to the enforcement of the Liquor laws
and this ordinance. No Liquor license fee shall be increased without providing
mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees
at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by Minn. Stat. § 340A.408, subd. 5, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   (F)   Off-sale intoxicating Liquor licensees may request a reduction in
their annual license fee by the amount specified in Minn. Stat. § 340A.408 if
at the time of initial application or renewal they:
      (1)   Agree to have a private vendor approved by the city train all
employees within 60 days of hire and annually thereafter in laws pertaining to
the sale alcohol, the rules for identification checks, and the responsibilities
of establishments serving intoxicating Liquors;
      (2)   Post a policy requiring identification checks for all persons
appearing to be 30 years old or less;
      (3)   Establish a written cash award and incentive program to award
employees who catch underage drinkers and a written penalty program to punish
employees in the event of a failed compliance check;
      (4)   Failure to abide by the provisions of this paragraph may result in
suspension of the license until the conditions of the fee reduction are met and
may result in suspension and/or revocation of the license pursuant to Section
23 of this ordinance.
§ 113.011. COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this ordinance.
§ 113.012. APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this ordinance
shall be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name
of the applicant, the applicant's age, representations as to the applicant's
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating Liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this ordinance, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial
responsibility as defined in Minn. Stat. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from
time to time, with regard to liability under Minn. Stat. § 340A.801, as it may
be amended from time to time. This proof will be filed with the city and the
Commissioner of Public Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of
financial responsibility under this section shall conform to Minn. Stat. §
340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which
is required to be licensed by this ordinance without having on file with the
city at all times effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for
revocation of the license.
§ 113.013. DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which Liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
§ 113.014. APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this ordinance is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
§ 113.015. TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this ordinance may be transferred without the
approval of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is
deemed to be a transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior
Council approval is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to
transfer a license shall be treated the same as an application for a new
license, and all of the provisions of this code applying to applications for a
license shall apply.
§ 113.016. INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
Liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating Liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
§ 113.017. HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
§ 113.018. RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the city to any one person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the church to the
closest side of the structure on the premises within which Liquor is to be
sold.
§ 113.019. CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
Liquor in an establishment which has an on-sale license shall receive training
regarding the selling or serving of Liquor to customers. The training shall be
provided by an organization approved by the Council. Proof of training shall be
provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this ordinance and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee, or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display Liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of Liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this ordinance is a continuing condition of any license.
   (F) Failure by on off-sale intoxicating Liquor license who has received a
fee reduction pursuant to section 10 (f) of this ordinance to abide with the
provisions of section 10 (f).
§ 113.020. HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by Minn.
Stat. § 340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City
Council may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours
than state law allows.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating Liquor or 3.2 percent malt Liquor in an on-sale
licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally
occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating Liquor or 3.2 percent malt Liquor to remain upon any
table, bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30
minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
§ 113.021. MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating Liquors or 3.2 percent malt Liquor
are sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be
employed as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person, host or
dishwashing services in places defined as a Restaurant, hotel, motel or other
multi-purpose building serving food in rooms in which intoxicating Liquors or
3.2 percent malt Liquor are sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a Restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where Liquor
is not sold.
§ 113.022. RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare Liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of Minn. Stat. § 340A.414,
as it may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council,
and no person shall consume Liquor in any such place.
§ 113.023. SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any Liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this ordinance
relating to Liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial
responsibility, no suspension or revocation shall take effect until the
licensee has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the
Administrative Procedures Act, Minn. Stat. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be
amended from time to time. The Council may act as the hearing body under that
act, or it may contract with the Office of Hearing Examiners for a hearing
officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
ordinance or Minn. Stat. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or
any rules promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to
time:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating Liquor where the only license is for 3.2 percent malt Liquor, or
violation of Section
113.004, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this ordinance for at least the minimum periods
as follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, at least
one day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any three-year period, at least
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this ordinance or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current Liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within ten days.
Any suspension under this division (B) shall continue until the Council
determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this
ordinance have again been met.   
   (D)   The provisions of Section 30 pertaining to administrative penalty may
be imposed in addition to or in lieu of any suspension or revocation under this
ordinance.
§ 113.024-29 Reserved.
§ 113.030. PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this ordinance or Minn. Stat.
Ch. 340A as it may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under
that chapter as they may be amended from time to time is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished in accordance with Minnesota
Statute 609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be amended from time to time; and the cost of
prosecution may be added pursuant to Minn. Stat. §631.48.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of Minn. Stat. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and
of this ordinance. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required
in order for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the
Administrative Procedures Act, Minn. Stat. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be
amended from time to time, is not required before the penalty is imposed, but
the Council shall hold a hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed
penalty and hear any person who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is
grounds for suspension or revocation of the license. The following is the
minimum schedule of presumptive civil penalties which must be imposed in
addition to any suspension unless the license is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any three-year period, $500.
      (2)   For the second violation within any three-year period, $1,000.
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period, $2,000.
   (C)   The term "violation" as used in Section 23 includes any and all
violations of the provisions in this section, or of Minn. Stat. Ch. 340A, as it
may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that chapter as
they may be amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be
determined on the basis of the history of violations for the preceding three-
year period. Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for
which revocation is imposed.
CHAPTER 114: LICENSING AND REGISTRATION OF REAL PROPERTY
USED AS RENTAL PROPERTY
Section
   
114.01   Purpose and Intent
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Licensing
   
114.04   Conformance to laws.
   
114.05   License suspension or revocation
   
114.06   Violations
   
114.07   Penalties
   
114.08   Liability
   
114.09   Severability and savings clause.
§ 114.01 Purpose
§ 114.02 Definitions
BEDROOM. A habitable room which is used, or intended to be used, primarily for
the purpose of sleeping.
DAY. A 24-hour period from midnight to the next.
DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, designated exclusively for residential
occupancy. Refer to Section
157.003 of the Zoning Code.
OWNER. All Persons interested in a property as fee simple Owner, life estate
holder, encumbrancer or otherwise to the Dwelling offered as a Residential
Rental.
PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association, governmental entity, or
partnership and its agents or assigns.
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL - LONG TERM. A rental or lease of a Dwelling by its Owner to
someone other than the Owner for purposes of habitation, with a lease or rental
term of at least consecutive 30 Days, including month-to-month lease
arrangements or longer.
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL - SHORT TERM. Any rental or lease of a Dwelling by its Owner
to someone other than the Owner for purposes of transient lodging for a fee or
other remuneration, with a lease or rental term of less than 30 Days, and
regardless of whether the Owner resides at the property or not.
TRANSIENT GUEST. A Person or Persons renting, using, or occupying a room or
rooms for fewer than 30 consecutive Days.
§ 114.03 Licensing
   No Person shall rent property to another Person or organization without
first securing a license from the city. A Residential Rental license is a
privilege, not a right.
   (A)   Application. License applications shall be made by the Owner of the
real estate used as rental property or a legal agent or representative acting
on behalf of the Owner. An application for a permit shall be submitted to the
City on a form provided by the City and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name, individual tax ID, home and business address(es), telephone
number(s), and emails of any and all Owners of the real property used for
rental purposes;
      (2)   Business name, business address(es), license/registration/account
number, primary contact Person, telephone number(s), and emails of a designated
property manager or caretaker, if applicable;
      (3)   Name, home and business address(es), telephone number(s), and
emails of vendee if real property is being purchased through a contract for
deed or mortgage, if applicable;
      (4)   Legal description of the real property used for rental purposes;
      (5)   Street address of the real property used for rental purposes;
      (6)   Nature of tenancy;
      (7)   Number of Bedrooms and/or rental units in the real property;
      (8)   Number of off-street parking and garage spaces available;
      (9)   Proof of an annual health and safety inspection completed by the
fire department.
      (10)   Other information the City may require.
   Persons holding a Residential Rental license or submitting a Residential
Rental license application shall inform the City Administrator/Clerk of any
change in the information requested on the application within ten business Days
after any such change.
   (B)   Conditions.
      (1)   General
         (a)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any
premises on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or
other financial claims of the city or of the State are delinquent and unpaid.
         (b)   The Applicant must confirm upon their application form that
there are functioning smoke and carbon monoxide detectors in each Bedroom and/
or sleeping area, and a functioning fire extinguisher in the living space.
         (c)   An annual health and safety inspection must be completed by the
fire department to ensure occupant safety.
      (2)   Residential Rental - Short Term
         (a)   The Person offering a Dwelling unit as a Residential Rental -
Short Term use must be the Owner of the Dwelling unit. A tenant of a property
may not apply for a Residential Rental - Short Term permit, nor shall the
property or any portion thereof be sub-leased by the tenant on a short-term
basis, or operated as such by the tenant. The regulation shall supersede any
conflicting provision in a private lease agreement permitting sub-leasing of
the property, or any portion of the property. Violation of the Section will
result in enforcement action against the tenant and Owner and will subject all
parties to the issuance of penalties.
         (b)   The applicant shall identify a managing agent or contact Person
who resides within a 25 mile radius of the City and who has the authority to
act for the Owner. It shall be the responsibility of the Owner or Owner's agent
to provide and maintain updated contact information, including address, phone
number, and e-mail, for receipt of all notices, orders, or other correspondence
relating to the licensed property.
         (c)   Each license shall indicate the number of Bedrooms which are
contained in the Dwelling. The number of Bedrooms, as indicated on the license,
shall be used for all calculations required herein.
         (d)   The maximum number of Transient Guests allowed is two (2)
Persons per Bedroom, plus an additional two (2) guests. For example, a three-
Bedroom home could have a maximum of eight (8) guests.
         (e)   One (1) vehicle per Bedroom shall be allowed, with a maximum of
four (4) vehicles. The Owner of the Residential Rental - Short Term must
provide one (1) approved off-street parking spot per Bedroom (that is not on a
public or private road, right of way, or easement), with a maximum of four (4).
         (f)   Transient occupants of the Residential Rental - Short Term shall
comply with all ordinances of the City including, but not limited to those
ordinances regulating noise and nuisance conduct. Failure of transient
occupants to comply shall subject the transient occupants and the Owner to the
issuance of fines and/or penalties, and the possibility of the revocation of
the Residential Rental - Short Term license.
         (g)   Licensees shall post and/or have easily available to Transient
occupants information as determined by the City Administrator/Clerk.
   (C)   License fees and term.
      (1)   The fees for a Residential Rental- Short Term license or
Residential Rental - Long Term license shall be in accordance with the current
city fee schedule, as amended.
      (2)   Upon receipt of application and fee meeting all requirements
herein, the City Administrator/Clerk shall have the authority to issue a
license. The City Administrator/Clerk may decline to issue a license if the
City Administrator/Clerk determines the Owner or occupant is not in compliance
with the fire prevention and life safety code, zoning code and/or local or
state nuisance laws for the real property used as rental property, or any
provision of this Chapter. The City Administrator/Clerk shall keep a record of
all rental property licenses issued.
      (3)   All licenses issued under this ordinance shall expire annually on
March 31. Licenses may be purchased at any time during the year but will expire
on the following March 31. License fees shall be prorated. Application for
annual licensure shall be submitted to the City by March 1 of each year.
      (4)   Failure by licensees to apply for a new license on or before March
1 of each year will result in a late license penalty fee being owed to the
city. The late license penalty fee shall be in accordance with the current city
fee schedule, as amended.
      (5)   For Residential Rental - Long Term licenses, the Owner shall
provide a copy of the current rental property license to the current occupants
within ten business Days of issuance of such license.
      (6)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed, it shall be revoked
upon the discovery that the holder was ineligible for the license.
      (7)   Licenses granted hereunder constitute a revocable, limited right.
Nothing herein shall be construed as granting a vested property right. No party
shall have any expectancy of reissuance of any license after its annual
expiration.
   (D)   Limit on Number of Residential Rental - Short Term Licenses
      (1)   There are 3 Residential Rental - Short Term licenses available.
      (2)   Licensees who have had Residential Rental Licenses approved the
previous year, will be given first right to receive a license during the
present year of application.
      (3)   The City maintains a waiting list for individuals wishing to
receive a Residential Rental - Short Term license. When available, licenses are
offered to the first individual on the waiting list.
      (4)   Individuals desiring a Residential Rental - Short Term license
shall be placed on a waitlist in the order of first come first serve by
appearing in-Person at City Hall with complete payment of the waitlist fee.
      (5)   The waitlist is updated annually. An annual fee to remain on the
waitlist shall be in accordance with the current City fee schedule, as amended.
Waitlist fees must be received by the City annually by March 1st of each year.
      (6)   If an individual is offered a license while on the waiting list and
declines, they will remain at the top of list until the next offer. If the
individual declines the second offer, the individual's name is moved to the
bottom if they choose to remain on the waitlist.
      (7)   If a licensee is not using the Residential Rental Short-Term
License by July 1, the City Council may revoke the permit. The City Council may
consider written request for exception to this requirement. Contact the City
Hall regarding a deferment request.
   (E)   Transferability
      (1)   Residential Rental - Short Term: Rental property licenses are not
transferable. New Owners or their agent or representative desiring to operate a
Residential Rental - Short Term will need to apply to be placed on the
waitlist.
      (2)   Residential Rental - Long Term: Rental property licenses are not
transferable. New Owners or their agent or representative shall apply for a
license within ten business Days of closing on a sale of the real property used
as rental property.
   (F)   Appeal
   The applicant shall have ten (10) Days to request in writing to the City
Administrator/Clerk a hearing before the City Council, upon a license denial.
Failure to request such a hearing, in writing, shall constitute waiver of the
right to be heard on such denial.
§ 114.04 Conformance to laws.
   No license shall be issued unless the Owner or applicant demonstrates that
the real property used as rental property conforms to all applicable provisions
of the fire prevention and life safety code, zoning code, and/or local or state
laws.
§ 114.05 License suspension or revocation
   (A)   Cause for Suspension or Revocation
      (1)   The Owner, applicant, or occupant fails to operate or maintain the
real property used as rental property consistent with state and local laws,
including but not limited to the City code.
      (2)   The Owner or applicant obtained the license by misrepresentation of
the facts, fraud, deceit, or bad faith.
      (3)   The Owner, applicant, or occupant fails to comply with any
condition set forth in any permits or variances granted by the City.
      (4)   The Owner, applicant, or occupant creates or allows activities that
pose a serious danger to public health, safety, or welfare by violating of
Minnesota Statute § 504B.171.
   (B)   Residential Rental- Long Term.
      The procedure used to suspend or revoke a Residential Rental - Long Term
license is listed in section 110 of this code.
   (C)   Residential Rental- Short Term.
      Upon the presence of provisions 114.06. (A) (2)-(4) or two occasions of
violations of federal, state, or local law, including this ordinance, within
the license period, the City may revoke the Residential Rental - Short Term
license. Prior to such revocation, the City Administrator/Clerk shall mail
written notice of the license violations to the licensee. The licensee shall
have ten (10) Days to request, in writing to the City Administrator/Clerk, a
hearing before the City Council upon such revocation. Failure to request such a
hearing, in writing, shall constitute waiver of the right to be heard on the
revocation. Upon City Council discretion, a license may be immediately revoked
in the event of violation of the terms of this Section.
      Revocation of a license under this Section shall render licensee
ineligible for applying for a new Residential Rental - Short Term license for a
period of 9 months from the date of revocation or the next annual renewal
cycle, whichever is later absent adoption by the City Council of different
consequences and/or conditions established at a hearing before the City Council
as requested above. Such prohibition shall apply not only to the property for
which the license was revoked, but also any other property held or owned by the
licensee.
§ 114.06 Violations
   (A)   Advertisement. No licensee shall advertise the Dwelling as containing
any more than the identified number of Bedrooms.
   (B)   Events. Use for Events Prohibited. A Residential Rental - Short Term
shall not be used by the Transient Guests, nor any rental occupant, for
nonresidential purposes such as commercial or social events. The Residential
Rental - Short Term host shall expressly prohibit and prevent the use of their
property for events in any advertisement as well as on-site informational
material. Examples of events include, but are not limited to: sponsored events,
conference gatherings, retreats, concerts, banquets, receptions, weddings,
reunions, dances, parties, or similar uses.
   (C)   Exterior Appearance. Exterior appearance and any exterior
modifications or changes to the principal single family Dwelling must not
substantially alter the single family appearance and character of the
structure;
   (D)   Noise. Failure of occupants to comply with nuisance laws shall subject
the occupants and the Owner to the issuance of fines and/or penalties, and the
possibility of the revocation of the Residential Rental license.
   (E)   Principal Structure. A Residential Rental - Short Term shall only be
operated in a principal structure (i.e., Transient Guests shall not sleep in
recreational vehicles, trailers, garages, tents, or accessory buildings).
   (F)   Signs. Signage indicating the Residential Rental - Short Term is not
permitted on or off the premises.
§ 114.07 Penalties
   Any Person who commits any act that is forbidden by the provisions of this
article shall by guilty of a misdemeanor in accordance with Minnesota Statute
609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be amended from time to time; provided, however, that
if a different punishment be prescribed in the City Code, such provision shall
govern the punishment for that violation, but in either case, the cost of
prosecution may be added pursuant to Minn. Stat. §631.48.
§ 114.08 Liability
   Neither the City nor its employees or agents shall be deemed liable for
damages to third Persons by reason of this ordinance.
§ 114.09 Severability and savings clause.
   Any section or portion of this ordinance declared unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid or unenforceable by a Court of competent jurisdiction shall
be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision, and such finding
shall not serve as an invalidation of or otherwise affect the validity or
enforceability of any other section or provision of this ordinance.
CHAPTER 115: PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANT REGULATION
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Exceptions to Definitions
   
115.03   Prohibition
   
115.04   Penalties
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
ordinance, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NON-COMMERICAL ADVOCATE. A person whose primary purpose is disseminating
religious, political, social, or other ideological beliefs. For purpose of this
ordinance, the term door-to-door advocate shall fall under the term solicitor
and include door-to-door canvassing and pamphleteering intended for non-
commercial purposes.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of impermanent movement, for the
purpose of offering for sale, displaying for exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise, or other personnel property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. For purpose of this ordinance, the term peddler
shall have the same common meaning as the term hawker.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership, or similar association.    
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of impermanent movement, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property, or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. For purposes of this ordinance,
the term solicitor shall have the same meaning as the term canvasser.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering goods, wares, products, merchandise, or other personal
property and who does not remain in any one location for more than fourteen
(14) consecutive days.
§ 115.02. EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
    (A)   Non-commercial advocates. Nothing within this ordinance shall be
interpreted to prohibit or restrict non-commercial advocates.
   (B)   Any person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to
the customers from a fixed location food establishment licensed by the
Minnesota Department of Health.
   (G)   Any person participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea
market.
   Exemption from these definitions shall not, for the scope of this chapter,
excuse any person from complying with any other applicable statutory provision
or requirement provided by another city ordinance.
§ 115.03. PROHIBITION.
   Solicitors, Peddlers, and Transient Merchants are prohibited from engaging
in the sale of goods and services in Designated City Parks as defined in
Section 91.04 (A) of this code.
§ 115.04. PENALTIES
   Any person who commits any act that is forbidden by the provisions of this
Chapter shall by guilty of a misdemeanor in accordance with Minnesota Statute
609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be amended from time to time; the cost of prosecution
may be added pursuant to Minn. Stat. §631.48.
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct; brawling and fighting
   
130.02   Weapons
   
130.03   Curfew
Public Property
   
130.15   Adoption and purpose
   
130.16   Liquor consumption
   
130.17   Animal control
   
130.18   Parking lots; on-street parking
   
130.19   Speeding, careless driving
   
130.20   Park system
   
130.21   Noise control
   
130.22   Use of highways, streets and other public places
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT; BRAWLING AND FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in brawling, fighting or other
disorderly conduct within the city limits.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 WEAPONS.
   (A)   Use of weapons restricted. No person, except a police officer in the
performance of their duties shall, within the city, discharge any gun, pistol
or firearm of any description or carry any such weapon unless it is dismounted
or broken apart or carried in a case in such manner that it cannot be
discharged. This section does not prevent the carrying of a handgun within the
city under a permit subject to the restrictions imposed by the laws of the
state.
   (B)   Use of weapons prohibited. Except as provided in division (A) above,
no person shall, within the corporate limits of the city, use, take aim or
discharge any weapon, gun, bow or catapult including, but not limited to, any
pellet gun, air rifle/pistol, compound bow, crossbow, atlatl or any other
similar device intended or capable of being used for the launching of bullets,
shots, pellets (including paint), arrows, darts, spears or other projectiles,
whether such device uses explosive or chemical reactions, elastic or spring,
physical or mechanical advantage, compressed fluid or any other energy or
force, to achieve such discharge.
   (C)   Offenses by parents, guardians. It is unlawful for any parent or
guardian of any person under the age of 18 years to knowingly permit such
persons to violate any provision of this section.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 CURFEW.
   (A)   Between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. during the months of
September through May, and between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. during
the months of June through August, it shall be unlawful for any minor under the
age of 16 years to idle, loiter or be upon the public streets, boulevards,
sidewalks, alleys, parks, beach or other public places in the city.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply when a minor is:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Going directly to or from an official school or church sponsored
function;
      (3)   Going directly to or from their place of employment; or
      (4)   Is traveling for a necessary errand or other legitimate business as
directed by a parent, legal guardian or custodian.
   (C)   Except as is provided under the circumstances set forth within
division (B) above, it shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other
adult responsible for the care and custody of a minor child as provided within
division (A) above, to allow or permit a minor under the age of 16 years to
violate the provisions of division (A) above.
Penalty, see §
130.99
PUBLIC PROPERTY
§ 130.15 ADOPTION AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter is adopted for the purpose of protecting the health,
safety and welfare of residents and future residents of the city by regulating
the use of highways, streets, public parks and other public places in the city.
   (B)   This subchapter does not repeal or amend existent provisions set forth
in ordinances now in effect, but rather its purpose is to provide clarification
and assistance to those charged with legal responsibility and authority to
enforce regulations on use of highway, streets, public parks and other public
places in the city. Provisions of this subchapter that are contained in
ordinances already in effect will be so noted by reference to ordinance number.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 LIQUOR CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   No person shall consume 3.2% malt liquor on a public highway, or in a
public park or other public place including the streets, parking lots and
sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   Upon application and approval of the City Council, the Council may
issue a permit to non-profit corporations and organizations for consumption of
3.2% malt liquor within a public park or parking lot for a specific occasion.
In granting such permit, the Council may impose such conditions and
restrictions as it deems proper to preserve the public peace and safety,
according to the conditions set forth in Ordinance No. 68.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 ANIMAL CONTROL.
   No person shall bring any animal into any park, public beach or parking area
in the city according to conditions set forth in Ordinance No. 70.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 PARKING LOTS; ON-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Parking lots. Any other use than parking at the public parking lots at
the public beach and ballpark is prohibited.
   (B)   On-street parking.
      (1)   The City Council shall have the authority to designate from time to
time any street or any part thereof as a "no parking" area and erect signs or
so otherwise mark the areas so designated as to inform motorists. The City
Council may also in like manner designate the length of time parking shall be
permitted on any place on any street.
      (2)   Parking in residential areas (off-street and on-street) shall be
limited to the use of the residents and their guests.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 SPEEDING, CARELESS DRIVING.
   (A)   Any person driving a vehicle on any street shall drive it at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than is reasonable and proper having due regard
to the traffic, surface and width of the street, congestion and any other
conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle at such a speed
as to endanger the life, limb or property of a person.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle on park land, or the public swimming
beach, unless said vehicle is authorized by the City Council.
   (C)   Unreasonable acceleration of any motor vehicle on any highway, street,
roadway, private road or driveway, public park and other public places within
the city is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance as defined in
Ordinance No. 73.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.20 PARK SYSTEM.
   (A)   Hours.
      (1)   The park system will be open for public use at the following times:
         (a)   Summer session, Memorial Day, Labor Day: 5:00 a.m. to 10:00
p.m.; and
         (b)   Balance of the year: from sunrise to sunset.
      (2)   No person shall be permitted to be on the premises of any part of
the park system during hours it is closed.
   (B)   Glass containers. No person shall carry onto or use any glass
containers of any type in the park system of the city.
   (C)   Trash littering.
      (1)   No person shall, within the limits of the city, throw, dump or
deposit, or cause or permit to be thrown or deposited in any river or body of
public water or on lands adjacent thereto, any trash, rubbish, garbage or other
litter without the consent of the owner of such land.
      (2)   No person shall cause or permit trash to be thrown or scattered
upon any public highway, public park or other public place including the
streets, parking lots and sidewalks or upon any vacant or occupied property
within the city.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 NOISE CONTROL.
   (A)   Noise prohibited. It shall be unlawful to make, continue or cause to
be made or continued, any noise in excess of the noise levels set forth unless
such noise be reasonably necessary to the preservation of life, health, safety
or property.
   (B)   Measurement of noise.
      (1)   Any activity not expressly exempted by this section which creates
or produces sound regardless of frequency exceeding the ambient noise levels at
the property line of any property (or if a condominium or apartment house
within any adjoining apartment) by more than six decibels above the ambient
noise levels as designated in the following table at the time and place and for
the duration then mentioned, shall be deemed to be a violation of the
ordinance, but any enumeration herein shall not be deemed to be exclusive.
 
                                          6:00 p.m.-
                                          10:00 p.m.          10:00 p.m.-
Duration of Sound    7:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m.  (residential        7:00 a.m.
                     (all districts)      districts) and 6:00 (residential
                                          p.m.-7:00 a.m. (all districts)
                                          other districts)
Less than 10 minutes 75db                 70db                60db
Between 10 minutes   70db                 60db                50db
and 2 hours
In excess of 2 hours 60db                 50db                40db
 
      (2)   In determining whether a particular sound exceeds the maximum
permissible sound level in the above table:
         (a)   Sounds in excess of the residential district limitations as
measured in a residential district or other district;
         (b)   During all hours of Sundays and state and federal holidays, the
maximum allowable decibel levels for residential districts are as set forth in
Column III of the table.
      (3)   Sounds emanating from the operation of (1) motor vehicles on public
highways; (2) aircraft; (3) outdoor implements such as power lawn mowers,
snowblowers, power hedge clippers and power saws; and (4) pile drivers or
jackhammers and other construction equipment from lawful and proper activities
at school grounds, playgrounds, parks or places wherein athletic contests take
place are exempt from the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Construction equipment.
      (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, no pile driver, jackhammer or other
construction equipment shall be operated between the hours of 6:00 p.m. to 7:00
a.m. on weekdays and during any hours on Saturdays, Sundays and state and
federal holidays, except under conditional use permit provided below and no
such equipment shall be operated at any time if the sound level from such
operation exceeds 100 decibels measured along any property line; provided
however, that said decibel maximum sound limit is reduced to 95 decibels
effective the second anniversary of the enactment of this section, and 90
decibels effective the fourth anniversary; provided further, however, that such
equipment, the operation of which conforms to the maximum allowable sound
levels as prescribed herein may be operated during the above prohibited hours
and days. When any of the above named equipment is used for any purpose other
than construction, the ambient noise levels apply.
      (2)   No internal combustion engine or any other power unit when operated
in connection with construction or demolition equipment shall be operated at
any time other than at the times set forth in this section and any sound
emitted from any such engine or power unit shall not exceed 83 decibels
measured along the property line.
      (3)   If an emergency situation exists or if substantial economic loss
would result to any person unless allowed additional hours of equipment
operation, a conditional use permit may be granted for extended hours of
operation of such construction equipment and internal combustion engine or
power unit as follows:
         (a)   In the event of an emergency situation a permit may be granted
for such operation during any hour of any day for a period not to exceed three
days or less while the emergency continues and which permit may be renewed for
periods of three days or less while the emergency continues.
         (b)   In the event of a determination of substantial economic loss to
a person, a conditional use permit may be granted for such operation throughout
the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. on weekdays and throughout the hours of 1:
00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays, Sundays and state and federal holidays upon
the condition that while any construction equipment, internal combustion engine
or power unit is in operation, its location shall not be less than 600 feet in
any direction from any dwellings, except that if while any such construction
equipment, internal combustion engine or power unit is in operation, its
location shall be no less than 1,200 feet in any direction from any dwelling, a
permit may be granted for operation during any hour of any day.
   (D)   Outdoor implements. Except as hereinafter provided, any power lawn
mower, snowblower, power hedge clipper, power saw or such other implement
designed primarily for outdoor use, shall be operated only between the hours of
7:30 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on weekdays, or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 9:30
p.m. on Saturdays, Sundays and state and federal holidays; provided however,
that such equipment, the operation of which conforms to the maximum allowable
sound levels as prescribed herein, may be operated during the above prohibited
hours.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 USE OF HIGHWAYS, STREETS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall drink or consume intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquors on
a public highway, or in a public park, or other public place including the
streets, parking lots and sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall have in their possession or on their person any bottle
or receptacle containing intoxicating liquor, or 3.2% malt liquor which has
been opened, or the seal broken, or the contents of which have been partially
removed on a public highway or in a public park or other public place including
the streets, parking lots and sidewalks of the city.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A minor who is in violation of curfew as set forth in § 130.03, may be
taken home or placed under the proper custody of the County Sheriff's
Department for the filing of a petition in juvenile court for delinquency as
provided in M.S. §§ 260B.101 et seq. and 260C.101 et seq., as they may be
amended from time to time.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS AND STRUCTURES
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
153.   LOWER LAKE ST. CROIX RIVER BLUFFLAND AND SHORELAND MANAGEMENT
      
154.   RESTRICTIVE SOILS
      
155.   SOIL EROSION
      
156.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
157.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provilsions
   
150.01   Building Code
   
150.02   Fire Prevention and Life Safety Code
   
150.03   Reserved
   
150.04   Alternative materials and methods
Hazardous and Substandard Buildings
   
150.15   Definitions
   
150.16   Removal by city consent; cost
   
150.17   Repair or removal of hazardous Building
   
150.18   Posting signs
   
150.19   Order; content, service and filing
   
150.20   Enforcement of judgment
Stormwater Management Code
   
150.35   Authorization, purpose, scope, and interpretation
   
150.36   Applicability
   
150.37   Exemptions
   
150.38   Definitions
   
150.39   Permit review process
   
150.40   Sight design and MIDS calculator
   
150.41   Stormwater volume reduction performance standards
   
150.42   Stormwater management rate control
   
150.43   Other design standards
   
150.44   Inspections and maintenance
   
150.45   Financial securities
   
150.46   Enforcement actions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Application, administration and enforcement.
      (1)   The application, administration and enforcement of this Building
Code shall be in accordance with Minn. Rules, Chapter 1300. The Code shall be
enforced within the extra territorial limits provided by M.S. § 326B.121, as it
may be amended from time to time, when so established by this chapter.
      (2)   The code enforcement agency of this municipality is called the City
of Lake St. Croix Beach. This Building Code shall be enforced by the state
certified Building Official designated by this city to administer the Code.
(M.S. § 326B.133)
   (B)   Permits and fees. The issuance of permits and the collection of fees
shall be as authorized by M.S. § 326B.121, as it may be amended from time to
time. Permits and fees shall be assessed for work governed by this Code in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the city, as amended. In addition,
surcharge fees may be collected and all permits as issued for work governed by
this Code in accordance with the provisions of M.S. § 326B.148, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (C)   Violations and penalties. A violation of this Building Code is a
misdemeanor punishable in accordance with Minnesota Statute 609.02 Subd. 3 as
it may be amended from time to time; and the cost of prosecution may be added
pursuant to Minn. Stat. §631.48. (Minn. Rules, Chapter 1300).
   (D)   Building Code. The State Building Code established pursuant to M.S. §§
326B.101 through 326B.194, as they may be amended from time to time, is hereby
adopted as the Building Code of the city. The Code is hereby adopted in this
section as if fully set forth herein.
      (1)   The State Building Code includes the following chapters of Minn.
Rules:
         ∙   Minn. Rules, Chapter 1300, Administration of the Minnesota State
Building Code;
         ∙   Minn. Rules, Chapter 1301, Building Official Certification;
         ∙   Minn. Rules, Chapter 1302, State Building Code Construction
Approvals;
         ∙   Minn. Rules, Chapter 1303, Minnesota Provisions;
         ∙   Minn. Rules, Chapter 1305, Adoption of International Building Cod
Minn. Rules, Chapter 1307, Elevators and Related Device Minn. Rules, Chapter
1309, Adoption of International Residential Cod Minn. Rules, Chapter 1311,
Rehabilitation of Existing Building Minn. Rules, Chapter 1315, Electrical Code;
         ∙   Minn. Rules, Chapter 1325, Solar Energy;
         ∙   Minn. Rules, Chapter 1335, Flood proofing;
         ∙   Minn. Rules, Chapter 1341, Accessibility for Buildings and
Facilities;
         ∙   Minn. Rules, Chapter 1346, Minnesota Mechanical and Fuel Gas
Codes;
         ∙   Minn. Rules, Chapter 1350, Manufactured Homes;
         ∙   Minn. Rules, Chapter 1360, Prefabricated Buildings;
         ∙   Minn. Rules, Chapter 13 61, Industrialized/Modular Buildings;
         ∙   Minn. Rules, Chapter 1370, Storm Shelters (Manufactured Home
Parks);
         ∙   Minn. Rules, Chapter 4715, Minnesota Plumbing Code;
         ∙   Minn. Rules, Chapter 1322, Residential Energy Code; and,
         ∙   Minn. Rules, Chapter 1323, Commercial Energy Code.
      (2)   The following optional provisions are hereby adopted and
incorporated as part of the Building Code for the city:
         (a)   Minn. Rules, part 1306.0010, Special Fire Protection Systems,
Option Subpart 2 and 1306.0030(e), Option 1;
      (3)   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as
authorized by M.S. § 326B.121, as it may be amended from time to time. Permits
and fees shall be assessed for work governed by this Code in accordance with
the current city fee schedule, as amended In addition, surcharge fees may be
collected and all permits as issued for work governed by this code in
accordance with the provisions of M.S. § 326B.148, as it may be amended from
time to time.
         (a)   Whenever any work for which a permit is required by this Code
has been commenced without first obtaining a permit, a special investigation
shall be made before a permit may be issued for such work. An investigation
fee, in addition to the permit fee, may be collected by the Building Inspector
whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued. The investigation fee
shall be equal to the amount of the permit fee in the current city fee
schedule, as amended. The payment of such investigation fee shall not exempt
any person from compliance with all other provisions of this Code nor any
penalty prescribed by law;
         (b)   The Building Inspector may authorize a refunding of any fee paid
hereunder which was erroneously paid or collected or according to the
following:
            1.   No more than 80% of the permit fee paid when no work has been
done under a permit issued in accordance with this Code;
            2. No more than 80% of the plan review fee paid when an application
for a permit for which a plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or
cancelled before any plan review is done; or
            3. No refunding of any fee paid except on written application filed
by the original Permittee not later than 180 days after the date of fee
payment.
         (c)   Applications for which no permit is issued within 180 days
following the date of application shall expire by limitation, and plans and
other data submitted for review may thereafter be returned to the Applicant or
destroyed by the Building Inspector. The Building Inspector may extend the time
for action by the Applicant for a period not exceeding 180 days on request by
the Applicant showing that circumstances beyond the control of the Applicant
have prevented action from being taken. No application shall be extended more
than once. In order to renew action on an application after expiration, the
Applicant shall resubmit plans and pay a new plan review fee; and
§ 150.02 FIRE PREVENTION AND LIFE SAFETY COD
   The Minnesota State Fire Code, as adopted and amended from time to time by
the commissioner of public safety pursuant to Minn. Stats. Ch. 299F.011 and as
modified by Minnesota Rules, Chapter 7511, is hereby adopted by reference,
including all appendices, and incorporated in this section as completely as if
set out in full.
   (A)   ENFORCEMENT.
      (1)   The Fire Code adopted in this article shall be enforced by the Fire
Department in the Fire Protection District, which is hereby established, and
which shall be operated under the supervision of the Fire Chief.
      (2)   The Fire Chief may detail such members of the service as inspectors
as shall from time to time be necessary.
   (B)   DEFINITIONS.
      (1)    Wherever the term "jurisdiction" is used in the Fire Code adopted
in this article, it shall be held to mean the Cities within the Lower St. Croix
Valley Fire Protection District (Afton, Lakeland, Lakeland Shores, St. Mary's
Point and Lake St. Croix Beach).
      (2)    Whenever the term "corporation counsel" is used in the Fire Code
adopted in this article, it shall be held to mean the attorney for the city.
   (C)   UNLAWFUL ACT. It is unlawful for any person to violate any section of
this article or the Fire Code adopted by this article.
   (D)   ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES OF THE FIRE MARSHAL
      (1)   The Minnesota State Fire Code shall be enforced by the Fire Chief
of the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire Department.
      (2)   The Fire Marshal shall be appointed by the Fire Chief.
      (3)   Whenever the term State Fire Marshal or Fire Chief appear in the
Minnesota State Fire Code, it shall include the Fire Marshal of the Lower St.
Croix Valley Fire Department.
      (4)   The Chief of the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire Department may detail
members of the department as Fire Inspectors.
      (5)   Fire Inspectors are responsible for the examination of Buildings to
detect fire hazards and ensure that all federal, state, and local fire codes
are met, and also may be responsible for plan review as directed.
      (6)   Fire Marshal and/or Fire Inspectors are responsible for the
examination of the Buildings to detect fire hazards and ensure that all
federal, state, and local fire codes are met. Additional duties include fire
code enforcement, and/or investigation of fire cause and origin. They are also
responsible for approval of work permits, and Building plan review to assure
that all new and existing construction meets all federal, state, and local
Building codes.
   (E)   FIRE PREVENTION INSPECTION. The Fire Code official is authorized to
enter and examine any Building, structure, marine vessel, vehicle or premises
in accordance with Section 104.3 for the purpose of enforcing this code. (107.1
Inspection Authority)
   (F)   OPEN BURNING.
      (1)   Open burning shall comply with the Minnesota State Fire Code,
Section 307 and Minn. Stat. §§ 88.16, 88.17, 88.171, and 88.22.
      (2)   Permits. Except as allowed under Minn. Stat. § 88.16, subd. 2, it
is unlawful for any person to have an open fire without first obtaining a
permit from the Fire Chief. The open burning permit may include such conditions
as are reasonable under the circumstances.
   (G)   Building Addresses.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Owner, lessor, and/or occupant of every
house, apartment, duplex, industrial, commercial, or other Building to have
house and/or Building numbers clearly displayed thereon, either by affixing to
said Building or sign post, such numbers in metal, glass, plastic, or other
durable material. The numbers shall not be less than 3 inches in height, in a
contrasting color to the base (i.e. white numbers on a red base). Said numbers
shall be so placed as to be easily and clearly seen from the street when
approached from either direction. As to any property with a lengthy driveway or
thick trees such that the house or Building is not readily visible from the
street, the Owner, lessor and/or occupant shall additionally place an
additional marker or sign post near the end of the driveway with the Building
numbers clearly displayed so as to be easily and clearly seen from the street.
      (2)   All accessory structures (as that term is defined within the Zoning
Code) are not affected by this Ordinance. The Zoning Administrator and/or
Building Inspector for the City shall be responsible for maintaining order in
the numbering system, and shall assign numbers for all properties within the
City upon request. The Owner or occupant shall affix the numbers on all
Buildings and be in compliance from and after February 1, 1987.
   (H)   Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03 RESERVED.
§ 150.04 ALTERNATIVE MATERIALS AND METHODS.
   In order to determine the suitability of alternate materials and methods of
construction and to provide for reasonable interpretation of the provisions of
the Building Code, there shall be and is hereby created a Board of Appeals,
consisting of five members who are qualified by experience and training to pass
upon matters pertaining to Building construction. The Building Inspector shall
be an ex officio member and shall act as Secretary of the Board. The Board of
Appeals shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall hold office at their
pleasure. The Board may adopt reasonable rules and regulations for conducting
its investigation and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the
Building Inspector with a duplicate copy to the appellant and may recommend to
the City Council such new legislation as is consistent therewith. All decisions
on findings by such Board shall be reported to the State Building Inspector
within 15 days of such decision or finding.
Penalty, see §
10.99
HAZARDOUS AND SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Includes any structure or part of a structure.
   HAZARDOUS BUILDING. Any Building or structure which is structurally unsafe
or not provided with adequate egress, or which constitutes a fire hazard, or is
otherwise dangerous to human life, or which in relation to existing use
constitutes a hazard to safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of
inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard or abandonment,
as specified in the State Building Code or any other effective ordinance, are,
for the purpose of this section, UNSAFE BUILDINGS. All such UNSAFE BUILDINGS
are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition or removal in accordance with the procedure
specified in this subchapter.
   OWNER, OWNER OF RECORD AND LIEN HOLDER OF RECORD. A person having a right or
interest in property to which M.S. Chapter 324, as it may be amended from time
to time, applies, and evidence of which is filed and recorded in the office of
the County Recorder or Registrar of titles in the county.
§ 150.16 REMOVAL BY CITY CONSENT; COST.
   The City Council may remove or raze any hazardous Building or remove or
correct any hazardous condition of real estate upon obtaining the consent in
writing of all Owners of record, occupying tenants, and all lienholders of
record; the cost shall be charged against the real estate as provided in
section 463.21, except the governing body may provide that the cost so assessed
may be paid in not to exceed five equal annual installments with interest
thereon, at eight percent per annum.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.17 REPAIR OR REMOVAL OF HAZARDOUS BUILDING.
   The City Council may order the Owner of any hazardous Building within the
municipality to correct the hazardous condition of such Building or to raze or
remove the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.18 POSTING SIGNS.
   The Building Inspector shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
Building a notice to read: "DO NOT ENTER, UNSAFE TO OCCUPY. Building
Department, City of Lake St. Croix Beach." Such notice shall remain posted
until the required repairs, demolition or removal are completed. Such notice
shall not be removed without written permission of the Building Inspector and
no person shall enter the Building except for the purpose of making the
required repairs or of demolishing the Building.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.19 ORDER; CONTENT, SERVICE AND FILING.
   (A)   Contents. The order shall be in writing; recite the grounds therefor;
specify the necessary repairs, if any and provide a reasonable time for
compliance not to exceed 90 days and shall state that a motion for summary
enforcement of the order will be made to the District Court of the county
unless corrective action is taken, or unless an answer is filed within the time
specified in Minn. Stat. §463.18 Service. The order shall be served upon the
Owner Of Record, or their agent if an agent is in charge of the Building, and
upon the occupying tenant, if there is one and upon all lien holders of record
in the manner provided for service of a summons in a civil action. If the Owner
cannot be found, the order shall be served upon them by posting it at the main
entrance to the Building and by four weeks' publication in the official
newspaper.
   (B)   Filing. A copy of the order with proof of service shall be filed with
the Clerk of District Court of the county, not less than five days prior to the
filing of a motion to enforce the order. At the time of filing such order the
City Council shall file for record with the County Recorder or Registrar of
Titles a notice of the pendency of the proceeding, describing with reasonable
certainty the lands affected and the nature of the order. If the proceeding is
abandoned, the city shall within ten days thereafter file with the County
Recorder a notice to that effect.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.20 ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall keep an accurate account of the expenses
incurred in carrying out the order and of all other expenses theretofore
incurred in connection with its enforcement, including specifically, but not
exclusively, filing fees, service fees, publication fees, appraisers' fees,
witness fees, including expert witness fees and traveling expenses incurred by
the city from the time the order was originally made, and shall credit thereon
the amount, if any, received from the Sale of the salvage, or Building or
structure.
   (B)   If the amount received from the Sale of salvage or property does not
equal or exceed the amount of expenses allowed by the court, the court's
judgment will certify the deficiency to the City Clerk-Administrator for
collection. The Owner or another interested party must pay the deficiency
amount by October 1. The city cannot add on a penalty to this amount. If the
payment is not made by October 1, the clerk must certify the amount of the
deficiency amount to the county auditor to be entered on the county tax lists
as a special assessment against the property. The deficiency is collected in
the same manner as other taxes. The amount collected by the county must be paid
into the city treasury. The city council may provide that the assessment may be
paid in five or fewer equal annual installments with interest at 8 percent per
year. An alternative to using a special assessment against the property is to
recover the costs by obtaining a court judgment against the property Owner.
   (C)   If the amount received for the Sale of the salvage or the Building
exceeds the allowed expenses incurred by the city, and there are delinquent
taxes against the property, the court will direct that the excess shall be paid
to the county treasurer to be applied to the delinquent taxes. If there are no
delinquent taxes, the court will direct the surplus to be paid to the Owner.
   (D   If the amount received for the Sale of the salvage or of the Building
or structure exceeds the expense incurred by the city and if there are no
delinquent taxes, the net proceeds of any Sales of property, fixtures, or
salvage must be paid to the persons designated in the judgment in proportion to
their interest. Accepting this payment waives all objections to the payment and
the proceedings. If any party to whom a payment of damages is made is not a
resident of the state, or the place of residence is not known, the party is an
infant or under a legal disability, refuses to accept payment, or if it is
doubtful to whom the payment should be made, the city may pay the amount to the
clerk of courts to be paid out under the direction of the court. Unless there
is an appeal to the payment, the deposit with the clerk is considered a payment
of the award.
Penalty, see §
10.99
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT CODE
§ 150.35 AUTHORIZATION, PURPOSE, SCOPE, AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Statutory authorization.
      (1)   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization and
policies contained in M.S. §§ 103B, 103D, and 462; Minn. Rules, Parts 6120.2500
to 6120.3900; and Minn. Rules Chapters 8410 and 8420.
      (2)   This subchapter is intended to meet the construction site Erosion
and Sediment Control and post-construction Stormwater management regulatory
requirements for Construction Activity and small Construction Activity (NPDES
Permit) as defined in 40 CFR 122.26(b)(14)(x) and (b)(15), respectively.
      (3)   This subchapter is intended to meet the Minimal Impact Design
Standards (MIDS) developed under M.S. § 115.03
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish regulatory
requirements for land Development and land disturbing activities aimed at
minimizing the threats to public health, safety, public and private property
and natural resources within the city from construction site Erosion and post-
construction Stormwater runoff. Specifically, the ordinance establishes
regulatory requirements that:
         (a)   Meet MIDS performance standards;
         (b)   Assist in meeting NPDES/SDS Construction Stormwater General
Permit requirements;
         (c)   Assist in meeting Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL) plan wasteload
allocations for impaired waters through quantification of load reductions;
         (d)   Assist in meeting policies and performance standards of the
Middle St. Croix Water Management Organization (MSCWMO) and Valley Branch
Watershed District (VBWD);
         (e)   Protect life and property from dangers associated with flooding;
         (f)   Protect public and private property and natural resources from
damage resulting from Stormwater runoff and Erosion;
         (g)   Ensure site design minimizes the generation of Stormwater runoff
and maximizes pervious areas for Stormwater treatment within the context of the
allowable use;
         (h)   Provide a single, consistent set of performance goals that apply
to all Developments;
         (i)   Protect water quality from pollutant loadings of sediment,
suspended solids, nutrients, heavy metals, toxics, debris, bacteria, pathogens,
biological impairments, thermal stress and other pollutants;
         (j)   Promote infiltration and Groundwater recharge;
         (k)   Provide vegetated corridors (buffers) to protect water resources
from Development;
         (l)   Protect functional values of all types of natural waterbodies
(e.g., rivers, streams, Wetlands, lakes, seasonal ponds); and
         (m)   Sustain or enhance biodiversity (native plant and animal
habitat) and support riparian ecosystems.
   (C)   Scope.
      (1)   Land shall not be developed for any use without providing
Stormwater management measures and Erosion and Sediment Control measures that
control or manage Stormwater runoff from such Developments.
   (D)   Greater restrictions.
      (1)   Relationship to WD/WMO requirements. All Stormwater management and
Erosion and Sediment Control activities shall comply with all applicable
requirements of the relevant Watershed Management Organization or Watershed
District. In the case of conflict between provisions of this subchapter and
other Stormwater regulations, the strictest provisions shall apply to land
Development and/or land disturbing activities.
      (2)   Relationship to existing easements, covenants, and deed
restrictions. The provisions of this subchapter are not intended to repeal,
abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
However, where this subchapter imposes greater restrictions the provisions of
this subchapter shall prevail.
   (E)   Severability. The provisions of this subchapter are severable, and if
any provision of this subchapter, or application of any provision of this
subchapter to any circumstance, is held invalid, the application of such
provision to other circumstances, and the remainder of this subchapter must not
be affected thereby.
§ 150.36 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Stormwater management permit. Unless otherwise exempted by §
150.37, an approved Stormwater management permit shall be required prior to any
proposed land Development activity that meets any of the criteria in divisions
(1) through (5) immediately below. All Stormwater management permits shall
include an Erosion And Sediment Control Plan or a Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan (SWPPP)
      (1)   Any project that creates or fully reconstruct 6,000 square feet or
more of Impervious Surface.
      (2)   All Major Subdivisions or Minor Subdivisions that are part of a
Common Plan Of Development.
      (3)   Projects within the St. Croix Riverway that add 500 square feet of
additional Impervious Surface.
      (4)   Any project requiring a variance from the current local Impervious
Surface zoning requirements for the property.
      (5)   Any land Development activity, regardless of size, that the city
determines is likely to cause an adverse impact to an environmentally sensitive
area or other property.
   (B)   Erosion And Sediment Control Plan. Unless otherwise exempted by this
subchapter in § 150.37, a grading and filling permit including an Erosion And
Sediment Control Plan shall be required prior to any proposed land disturbing
activity that meets any of the criteria in divisions (1) through (3) below.
      (1)   Any project undertaking grading, filling, or other land alteration
activities which involve movement of 100 cubic yards of earth or removal of
vegetation on greater than 10,000 square feet of land.
      (2)   Any project with Wetland impacts, grading within Public Waters,
grading within buffers or within 40-feet of the bluff line.
      (3)   A land disturbing activity, regardless of size, that the city
determines is likely to cause an adverse impact to an environmentally sensitive
area or other property, or may violate any other Erosion and Sediment Control
standard set forth in this subchapter.
   (C)   Buffers.
      (1)   A buffer of unmowed natural vegetation shall be required upslope of
Wetlands, lakes and streams prior to any proposed land Development that meets
any of the criteria below, unless otherwise exempted in this subchapter in §
150.37.
      (2)   Sites that have been (a) subdivided or split or (b) subject to a
new primary use for which a necessary rezoning, special use permit or variance
has been approved.
§ 150.37 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities shall be exempt from all of the requirements of
this subchapter:
   (A)   Emergency work necessary to protect life, limb, or property.
   (B)   Routine agricultural activity such as tilling, planting, harvesting,
and associated activities. Other agricultural activities are not exempt
including activities such as construction of structures.
   (C)   Silvicultural/forestry activity.
§ 150.38 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words or phrases used in this subchapter shall have the meanings as
defined by Appendix B of the Minnesota Construction Stormwater Permit No: MN
R100001 (Construction Permit) available at http://www.pca.state.mn.us/wfhya5b;
   (B)   If not defined in the Construction Permit, then words or phrases shall
be interpreted to have the meaning they have in common usage.
   (C)   Words or phrases shall be interpreted so as to give this subchapter
its most reasonable application.
   (D)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the words "must", "shall", and
"will" are mandatory and not permissive.
   APPLICANT. The Owner of land submitting an application under the provisions
of this subchapter for a Stormwater and/or Erosion control permit to be issued
by the community.
   ATLAS 14. The Precipitation Frequency Estimates released by the National
Weather Service Hydrometeorlogical Studies Design Center. Volume 8, released in
2013, provides precipitation frequency estimates for many Midwestern states
including Minnesota.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). The most effective and practicable means
of Erosion Prevention and Sediment Control, and water quality management
practices that are the most effective and practicable means to control,
prevent, and minimize degradation of surface water, including avoidance of
impacts, construction-phasing, minimizing the length of time soil areas are
exposed, prohibitions, pollution prevention through good housekeeping, and
other management practices published by state or designated area-wide planning
agencies.
   BETTER SITE DESIGN. The control and management of Stormwater quantity and
quality through the application of Better Site Design Techniques as outlined in
the current version of the Minnesota Stormwater Manual: http://
Stormwater.pca.state.mn.us/index.php/Main_Page. BETTER SITE DESIGN includes:
preservation of natural areas; site reforestation; stream and shoreland
buffers; open space design; disconnection of impervious cover; rooftop
disconnection; grass channels; Stormwater landscaping; compost and amended
soils; Impervious Surface reduction; and trout stream protection.
   COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A contiguous area where multiple
separate and distinct land disturbing activities may be taking place at
different times, on different schedules, but under one proposed plan. One plan
is broadly defined to include design, permit application, advertisement or
physical demarcation indicating that land-disturbing activities may occur.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Includes Construction Activity as defined in 40 CFR
pt. 122.26(b)(14)(x) and small Construction Activity as defined in 40 CFR pt.
122.26(b)(15) and Construction Activity as defined by Minn. Rule 709.0080,
subp. 4. This includes a disturbance to the land that results in a change in
the topography, existing soil cover (both vegetative and non-vegetative), or
the existing soil topography that may result in accelerated Stormwater runoff,
leading to soil Erosion and movement of sediment into surface waters or
drainage systems. Examples of Construction Activity may include clearing,
grading, filling, and excavating. CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY includes the
disturbance of less than one acre of total land area that is a part of a larger
Common Plan Of Development Or Sale if the larger common plan will ultimately
disturb one acre or more. CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY does not include a disturbance
to the land of less than five acres for the purpose of routine maintenance that
is performed to maintain the original line and grade, hydraulic capacity, or
original purpose of the facility. (NOTE - The community may wish to change this
to a smaller disturbance area. A smaller area is more restrictive than the
state/federal requirements, so it would be allowable for a local government.)
   DEVELOPMENT, NEW. Any Development that results in the conversion of land
that is currently prairie, agriculture, forest, or meadow and has less than 15%
Impervious Surface. Land that was previously developed, but now razed and
vacant, will not be considered NEW DEVELOPMENT.
   DEWATERING. The removal of surface or ground water to dry and/or solidify a
construction site to enable Construction Activity. DEWATERING may require a
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources (DNR) water appropriation permit, and
if DEWATERING water is contaminated, discharge of such water may require an
individual MPCA NPDES/SDS permit.
   ENERGY DISSIPATION. Methods employed at pipe outlets to prevent Erosion
caused by the rapid discharge of water scouring soils. Examples include, but
are not limited to: concrete aprons, riprap, splash pads, and gabions that are
designed to prevent Erosion.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN. A plan for projects disturbing less than
one acre that is in compliance with the minimum requirements of the MSCWMO and
VBWD. The plan identifies Erosion Prevention and Sediment Control practices,
location and timelines for installation. The plan also includes responsible
parties and timelines for inspection and maintenance.
   EROSION PREVENTION. Measures employed to prevent Erosion. Examples include
but not limited to: soil stabilization practices, limited grading, mulch,
temporary Erosion protection or Permanent Cover, and construction phasing.
   FULLY RECONSTRUCTED IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Areas where Impervious Surfaces have
been removed down to the underlying soils. Activities such as structure
renovation, mill and overlay projects, and pavement rehabilitation projects
that do not alter underlying soil material beneath the structure, pavement, or
activity are not considered Fully Reconstructed Impervious Surfaces. Reusing
the entire existing Building foundation and re-roofing of an existing Building
are not considered fully reconstructed.
   GENERAL CONTRACTOR. The party who signs the construction contract with the
Owner or Operator to construct the project described in the final plans and
specifications. Where the construction project involves more than one
contractor, the GENERAL CONTRACTOR could be the party responsible for managing
the project on behalf of the Owner or Operator. In some cases, the Owner or
Operator may be the GENERAL CONTRACTOR. In these cases, the Owner may contract
an individual as the Operator who would become the co-Permittee.
   GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE. A wide array of practices at multiple scales that
manage wet weather and that maintains or restores natural hydrology by
infiltrating, evapotranspiring, or harvesting and using Stormwater. On a
regional scale, Green Infrastructure is the preservation or restoration of
natural landscape features, such as forests, floodplains and Wetlands, couples
with policies such as infill and Redevelopment that reduce overall
imperviousness in a watershed. On a local scale, Green Infrastructure consists
of site and neighborhood-specific practices, such as bioretention, trees, green
roofs, permeable pavements and cisterns.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A constructed hard surface that either prevents or
retards the entry of water into the soil and causes water to run off the
surface in greater quantities and at an increased rate of flow than prior to
Development. Examples include rooftops, sidewalks, patios, driveways, parking
lots, storage areas, and concrete, asphalt, or gravel roads.
   LAND DISTURBANCE. Any activity that result in a change or alteration in the
existing ground cover (both vegetative and nonvegetative) and/or the existing
soil topography. Land disturbing activities include, but are not limited to,
Development, Redevelopment, demolition, construction, reconstruction, clearing,
grading, filling, stockpiling, excavation, and borrow pits. Routine vegetation
management, and mill and overlay/resurfacing activities that do not alter the
soil material beneath the pavement base, are not considered Land Disturbance.
In addition, other maintenance activities such as catch basin and pipe repair/
replacement, lighting, and pedestrian ramp improvements shall not be considered
Land Disturbance for the purposes of determining permanent Stormwater
management requirements.
   LINEAR PROJECT. Construction or reconstruction of roads, trails, sidewalks,
and rail lines that are not part of a Common Plan Of Development Or Sale. Mill,
overlay and other resurfacing projects are not considered to be reconstruction.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. All subdivisions not classified as Minor Subdivisions
including, but not limited to, subdivisions of four or more lots, or any size
subdivision requiring any new street or extension of an existing street.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing three or less lots fronting on
an existing street, not part of a Common Plan Of Development nor involving any
new street or road or the extension of municipal facilities.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). The program for
issuing, modifying, revoking, reissuing, terminating, monitoring, and enforcing
permits under the Clean Water Act (§§ 301, 318, 402, and 405) and United States
Code of Federal Regulations Title 33, §§ 1317, 1328,1342, and 1345.
   NORMAL WETTED PERIMETER. The area of a conveyance, such as a ditch, channel,
or pipe that is in contact with water during flow events that are expected to
occur from a two-year 24 hour storm event.
   NOTICE OF TERMINATION. Notice to terminate coverage under this permit after
construction is complete, the site has undergone final stabilization, and
maintenance agreements for all permanent facilities have been established, in
accordance with all applicable conditions of this permit.
   OPERATOR. The person designated by the Owner, who has day to day operational
control and/or the ability to modify project plans and specifications related
to the SWPPP. The OPERATOR must be named on the permit as the Permittee.
   OWNER. The person or party possessing the title of the land on which the
construction activities will occur; or if the Construction Activity is for a
lease, easement, or mineral rights license holder, the party or individual
identified as the lease, easement or mineral rights license holder; or the
contracting government agency responsible for the Construction Activity.
   PERMANENT COVER. Surface types that will prevent soil failure under erosive
conditions. Examples include: gravel, asphalt, concrete, rip rap, roof tops,
perennial cover, or other landscaped material that will permanently arrest soil
Erosion. A uniform perennial vegetative cover (e.g., evenly distributed,
without large bare areas) with a density of 70% of the native background
vegetative cover for the area must be established on all unpaved areas and
areas not covered by permanent structures, or equivalent permanent
stabilization measures. PERMANENT COVER does not include the practices listed
under temporary Erosion protection.
   PERMITTEE. A person or persons, firm, or governmental agency or other entity
that signs the application submitted to the MPCA and is responsible for
compliance with the terms and conditions of the construction permit.
   PUBLIC WATERS. All water basins and watercourses that are described in M.S.
§ 103G.005 subd. 15.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Any Development that is not considered new Development.
   RETAIN. Manage Stormwater on site using a low-impact Development approach so
that the rate and volume of predevelopment Stormwater reaching receiving waters
is unchanged.
   ST. CROIX RIVERWAY. All lands and Public Waters within the riverway boundary
subject to the standards and criteria for the Lower Saint Croix National Scenic
Riverway in Minnesota.
   SATURATED SOIL. The highest seasonal elevation in the soil that is in a
reduced chemical state because of soil voids being filled with water. SATURATED
SOIL is evidenced by the presence of redoximorphic features or other
information.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. Methods employed to prevent sediment from leaving the
site. SEDIMENT CONTROL practices include; silt Fences, sediment traps, earth
dikes, drainage swales, check dams, subsurface drains, bio rolls, rock logs,
compost logs, storm drain inlet protection, and temporary or permanent
sedimentation basins.
   SMALL CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Small Construction Activity as defined in 40
CFR part 122.26(b)(15). SMALL CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES include clearing, grading
and excavating that result in Land Disturbance of equal to or greater than one
acre and less than five acres. SMALL CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY includes the
disturbance of less than one acre of total land area that is part of a larger
Common Plan Of Development Or Sale if the larger common plan will ultimately
disturb equal to or greater than one and less than five acres.
   STABILIZED. Exposed ground surface has been covered by appropriate materials
such as mulch, staked sod, riprap, Erosion control blanket, mats or other
material that prevents Erosion from occurring. Grass, agricultural crop or
other seeding alone is not stabilization. Mulch materials must achieve
approximately 90% ground coverage (typically two ton/acre).
   STANDARD PLATES. General drawings showing a common or repeated Construction
Activity or practice.
   STORMWATER. Is defined under Minn. Rule 7077.0105, subp. 41(b), and includes
precipitation runoff, Stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff, and any other surface
runoff and drainage.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN" (SWPPP). A plan for Stormwater
discharge that includes Erosion Prevention BMPs, Sediment Control BMPs and
permanent Stormwater management systems that, when implemented, will decrease
soil Erosion on a parcel of land and decrease off-site nonpoint pollution.
   SURFACE WATER OR WATERS. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, Wetlands,
reservoirs, springs, rivers, drainage systems, waterways, watercourses, and
irrigation systems whether natural or artificial, public or private, except
that surface waters do not include treatment basins or ponds that were
constructed from upland.
   TEMPORARY EROSION PROTECTION. Methods employed to prevent Erosion during
construction activities. Examples of TEMPORARY EROSION PROTECTION include;
straw, wood fiber blanket, wood chips, vegetation, mulch and rolled Erosion
control products.
   UNDERGROUND WATERS (GROUNDWATER). Water contained below the surface of the
earth in the saturated zone including, without limitation, all waters whether
under confined, unconfined, or perched conditions, in near surface
unconsolidated sediment or regolith, or in rock formations deeper underground.
The term GROUNDWATER shall be synonymous with UNDERGROUND WATER.
   WATERS OF THE STATE (as defined in M.S. § 115.01, subd. 22). All streams,
lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs,
aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or
accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public
or private, which are contained within, flow through, or border upon the state
or any portion thereof.
   WETLAND or WETLANDS. Is defined in Minn. Rule 7050.0186, subp. 1A.B. and
includes those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in Saturated Soil conditions. WETLANDS generally include swamps, marshes, bogs,
and similar areas. Constructed Wetlands designed for wastewater treatment are
not Waters Of The State. WETLANDS must have the following attributes:
      (a)   A predominance of hydric soils.
      (b)   Inundated or saturated by surface water or Groundwater at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic
vegetation typically adapted for life in a Saturated Soil condition.
      (c)   Under normal circumstances support a prevalence of such vegetation.
§ 150.39 PERMIT REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Pre- application meeting. At the discretion of the Zoning
Administrator, the city shall facilitate a pre-application meeting with the
Applicant, city staff (or their authorized representative), and staff of
relevant partner agencies (e.g. WCD, MSCWMO, MDNR, and the like). The purposes
of the meeting are to understand the general parameters of the proposed project
and to convey the requirements of meeting the provisions of the ordinance.
   (B)   Application completeness review. The city shall make a determination
regarding the completeness of a permit application and notify the Applicant in
writing if the application is not complete including the reasons the
application was deemed incomplete.
   (C)   Application review. The Applicant shall not commence any Construction
Activity subject to this subchapter until a permit has been authorized by the
city.
   (D)   Permit authorization. If the city determines that the application
meets the requirements of this subchapter, the city may issue approval
authorizing the project or activity. The approval shall be valid for one year.
   (E)   Permit denial. If the city determines the application does not meet
the requirements of this subchapter the application must be denied. If the
application is denied, the Applicant will be notified of the denial in writing
including reasons for the denial. Once denied, a new application must be
resubmitted for approval before any activity may begin.
   (F)   Plan information requirements. The minimum information requirements of
the application shall be consistent with the requirements in the most recent
version of the NPDES/SDS Construction Stormwater General Permit and Middle St.
Croix WMO or Valley Branch Watershed District performance standards. The
application information must also include permanent treatment information
showing the proposed project meets the MSCWMO or VBWD performance goals.
   (G)   Modification of permitted plans. The Applicant must amend an approved
ESC Plan or SWPPP to include additional requirements such as additional or
modified BMPs designed to correct problems whenever:
      (1)   There is a change in design, construction, operation, maintenance,
weather or seasonal conditions that has a significant effect on the discharge
of pollutants to surface water or underground water.
      (2)   Inspections or investigations by site Operators, local, state or
federal officials indicate the plans are not effective in eliminating or
significantly minimizing the discharge of pollutants to surface water or
underground water or that the discharges are causing water quality standard
exceedances.
      (3)   The plan is not achieving the general objectives of minimizing
pollutants in Stormwater discharges associated with Construction Activity.
   (H)   Permit completion. Before work under the permit is deemed complete,
the Permittee must submit as-builts, a long term maintenance plan and
information demonstrating that the Stormwater facilities conform to design
specifications.
§ 150.40 SITE DESIGN AND MIDS CALCULATOR.
   (A)   Better Site Design. Whenever possible, Development projects shall be
designed using the Better Site Design Techniques of the current version of the
Minnesota Stormwater Manual1.
   (B)   MIDS calculator. Final site design and choice of permanent Stormwater
volume reduction practices shall be based on outcomes of the MIDS Calculator
(or other model that shows the performance goal can be met) and shall meet the
performance goals in section 6 of this subchapter.
   (C)   Buffer requirement. Buffer locations and widths must comply with the
State of Minnesota, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, and Middle St. Croix
Watershed Management Organization or Valley Branch Watershed District
standards. Available at http://Stormwater.pca.state.mn.us/index.php/
Better_site_design.
§ 150.41 STORMWATER VOLUME REDUCTION PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   Any Applicant for a Stormwater management permit as defined in §
150.36 must meet all of the following performance goals:
   (A)   New Development volume control. For new, nonlinear Developments on
sites without restrictions, Stormwater runoff volumes will be controlled and
the post-construction runoff volume shall be Retained on site for 1.1 inches of
runoff from all Impervious Surfaces on the site.
   (B)   Redevelopment volume control. Nonlinear redevelopment projects on
sites without restrictions that create or fully reconstruct Impervious Surfaces
shall capture and Retain on site 1.1 inches of runoff from the new and/or Fully
Reconstructed Impervious Surfaces.
   (C)   Linear Development volume control. Linear Projects on sites without
restrictions that create new and/or Fully Reconstructed Impervious Surfaces,
shall capture and Retain the larger of the following:
      (1)   0.55 inches of runoff from the new and Fully Reconstructed
Impervious Surfaces on the site.
      (2)   1.1 inches of runoff from the net increase m impervious area on the
site. Mill and overlay and other resurfacing activities are not considered
fully reconstructed.
   (D)   Flexible treatment alternatives for sites with restrictions. Applicant
shall attempt to comply fully with the appropriate performance standards
described above. Alternatives considered and presented shall examine the merits
of relocating project elements to address varying soil conditions and other
constraints across the site. If full compliance is not possible due to any of
the factors listed below, the Applicant must document the reason. If site
constraints or restrictions limit the full treatment goal, the following
flexible treatment alternatives shall be used:
      (1)   Applicant shall document the flexible treatment alternatives
sequence starting with Alternative #1. If Alternative #1 cannot be met, then
Alternative #2 shall be analyzed. Applicants must document the specific reasons
why Alternative #1 cannot be met based on the factors listed below. If
Alternative #2 cannot be met then Alternative #3 shall be met. Applicants must
document the specific reasons why Alternative #2 cannot be met based on the
factors listed below. When all of the conditions are fulfilled within an
alternative, this sequence is completed.
      (2)   Volume reduction techniques considered shall include infiltration,
reuse and rainwater harvesting, and canopy interception & evapotranspiration
and/or additional techniques included in the MIDS calculator and the Minnesota
Stormwater Manual.
      (3)   Higher priority shall be given to BMPs that include volume
reduction. Secondary preference is to employ filtration techniques, followed by
rate control BMPs.
      (4)   Factors to be considered for each alternative will include:
         (a)   Karst geology.
         (b)   Shallow bedrock.
          (c)   High Groundwater.
           (d)   Hotspots or contaminated soils.
           (e)   Drinking Water Source Management Areas or within 200 feet of
drinking water well.
          (f)   Zoning, setbacks or other land use requirements.
         (g)   Poor soils (infiltration rates that are too low or too high,
problematic urban soils).
   (E)   Alternative #1. Applicant attempts to comply with the following
conditions:
       (1)   Achieve at least 0.55" volume reduction from all Impervious
Surfaces if the site is new Development or from the new and/or Fully
Reconstructed Impervious Surfaces for a Redevelopment or linear Development
site.
      (2)   Remove 75% of the annual TP load from all Impervious Surfaces if
the site is new Development or from the new and/or Fully Reconstructed
Impervious Surfaces for a Redevelopment site.
         (3)   Options considered and presented shall examine the merits of
relocating project elements to address varying soil conditions and other
constraints across the site.
   (F)   Alternative #2. Applicant attempts to comply with the following
conditions:
      (1)   Achieve volume reduction to the maximum extent practicable.
      (2)   Remove 60% of the annual TP load from all Impervious Surfaces if
the site is new Development or from the new and/or Fully Reconstructed
Impervious Surfaces for a Redevelopment site.
      (3)   Options considered and presented shall examine the merits of
relocating project elements to address varying soil conditions and other
constraints across the site.
   (G)   Alternative #3: off-site treatment. Mitigation equivalent to the
performance of 1.1 inches of volume reduction for new Development, linear
Development or Redevelopment as described above in this section, (including
banking or cash) can be performed off-site to protect the receiving water body.
Off-site treatment shall be achieved in areas selected in the following order
of preference:
       (1)   Locations that yield benefits to the same receiving water that
receives runoff from the original Construction Activity.
      (2)   Locations within the same Department of Natural Resource (DNR)
catchment area (Hydrologic Unit 08) as the original Construction Activity.
      (3)   Locations within the next adjacent DNR catchment area upstream.
      (4)   Locations anywhere within the city's jurisdiction.
   (H)   The MIDS Design Sequence Flowchart can be found in the Minnesota
StormwateStormwater.pca.state.mn.us/index.php/Flexible_treatment_options.
§ 150.42 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT RATE CONTROL.
   For new Development, Redevelopment and linear Development sites the site
design shall provide on-site treatment during construction and post-
construction to ensure no increase from existing conditions in offsite peak
discharge for the 1-year, 2-year, 10-year, and 100-year, 24-hour storm events
based on the standards defined by the MSCWMO or VBWD. For single family
residential Building lots not part of a Common Plan Of Development site rate
control requirements do not apply.
§ 150.43 OTHER DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minnesota Stormwater Manual. All volume control for water quality and
quantity and site design specifications shall conform to the current version of
the Minnesota Stormwater Manual.
   (B)   NPDES/SDS construction Stormwater general permit. All volume control
and water quality and quantity best management practice design specifications
shall conform to the current version of the NPDES/SDS Construction Stormwater
General Permit.
   (C)   Site Erosion and Sediment Control requirements. All Erosion and
Sediment Control requirements shall conform to the current requirements of
NPDES/SDS Construction Stormwater General Permit.
   (D)   Watershed District/WMO requirements. All Stormwater management and
Erosion and Sediment Control activities shall comply with all applicable
requirements of the Watershed Districts or Watershed Management Organizations
in which the project is located. In case provisions in this subchapter and
requirements of watershed district or watershed management organizations
overlap or conflict, the strictest provisions shall apply to the activities.
   (E)   Where applicable, a minimum of 20 feet shall be provided on all sides
of all publicly owned Stormwater facilities for facility maintenance.
§ 150.44 INSPECTIONS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Inspections and record keeping.
      (1)   Applicant responsibilities. The Applicant is responsible for
inspections and record keeping during and after construction for all privately-
owned Stormwater treatment practices on the site.
      (2)   City inspections. The city reserves the right to conduct
inspections on a regular basis to ensure that both temporary and permanent
Stormwater management and Erosion and Sediment Control measures are properly
installed and maintained prior to construction, during construction, and at the
completion of the project.
   (B)   Right of entry and inspection. Powers: the issuance of a permit
constitutes a right-of-entry for the city or its authorized representative to
enter upon the construction site. The Applicant shall allow the city and its
authorized representatives, upon presentation of credentials, to:
      (1)   Enter upon the permitted site for the purpose of obtaining
information, examining records, and conducting investigations or surveys;
      (2)   Bring such equipment upon the permitted Development as is necessary
to conduct such surveys and investigations;
      (3)   Examine and copy any books, papers, records, or memoranda
pertaining to activities or records required to be kept under the terms and
conditions of the permit;
      (4)   Inspect the Stormwater pollution control measures;
      (5)   Sample and monitor any items or activities pertaining to Stormwater
pollution control measures; and
      (6)   Correct deficiencies in Stormwater and Erosion and Sediment Control
measures.
   (C)   Fees. Fees will be in accordance with the current city fee schedule,
as amended.
   (D)   Enforcement tools/stop work orders. The city reserves the right to
issue construction stop work orders when cooperation with inspections is
withheld or when a violation has been identified that needs immediate attention
to protect human health and/or the environment.
      (1)   Construction stop work order. The city may issue construction stop
work orders until Stormwater management measures meet specifications and the
Applicant repairs any damage caused by Stormwater runoff. An inspection by the
city must follow before the construction project work can resume.
      (2)   Other actions to ensure compliance. The city can take any
combination of the following actions in the event of a failure by Applicant to
meet the terms of this subchapter:
         (a)   Withhold inspections or issuance of certificates or approvals.
         (b)   Revoke any permit issued by the city to the Applicant.
         (c)   Conduct remedial or corrective action on the Development site or
adjacent site affected by the failure.
         (d)   Charge Applicant for all costs associated with correcting the
failure or remediating damage from the failure; if payment is not made within
thirty days, payment will be made from the Applicant's financial securities.
         (e)   Bring other actions against the Applicant to recover costs of
remediation or meeting the terms of this subchapter.
          (f)   Any person, firm or corporation failing to comply with or
violating any of these regulation, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
be subject to a fine or imprisonment or both in accordance with Minnesota
Statute 609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be amended from time to time; and the cost of
prosecution may be added pursuant to Minn. Stat. §631.48. Each day that a
separate violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   Long term inspection and maintenance of Stormwater facilities.
      (1)   Private Stormwater facilities.
         (a)   Maintenance plan required. No private Stormwater facilities may
be approved unless a maintenance agreement is provided that defines who will
conduct the maintenance, the type of maintenance necessary to ensure effective
performance, and the maintenance intervals. All private Stormwater facilities
shall be inspected by the property Owner and maintained in proper condition by
the Owner consistent with the performance goals for which they were originally
designed.
         (b)   Facility access. The Applicant shall obtain all necessary
easements or other property interests to allow access to the facilities for
inspection or maintenance for both the responsible party and the city or
authorized representative.
         (c)   Removal of settled materials. All settled materials, including
settled solids, shall be removed from ponds, sumps, grit chambers, and other
devices as necessary and disposed of properly.
         (d)   Inspections. All Stormwater facilities within the city shall be
inspected by the property Owner at a frequency consistent with the maintenance
plan. Inspection reports shall be provided to the city upon request.
      (2)   Public Stormwater facilities.
         (a)   Acceptance of publicly owned facilities. Before work under the
permit is deemed complete; the Permittee must submit as-builts and a
maintenance plan demonstrating at the time of final stabilization that the
Stormwater facilities conform to design specifications. A final inspection
shall be required before the city accepts Ownership of the Stormwater
facilities.
         (b)   Maintenance. The city shall perform maintenance of publicly
owned Stormwater facilities in accordance with their comprehensive Stormwater
management plan and other regulatory requirements.
§ 150.45 FINANCIAL SECURITIES.
   (A)   Amount. At the discretion of the city, the city may require a
financial security from the Applicant in an amount sufficient to cover the
entirety of the estimated costs of permitted and remedial work based on the
final design as established in a set financial security schedule determined by
the city.
   (B)   Release. The financial security shall not be released until all
permitted and remedial work is completed.
   (C)   Use by city. The financial security may be used by the city to
complete work not completed by the Applicant.
   (D)   Form of security. The form of the financial security shall be one or a
combination of the following to be determined by the city:
       (1)   Cash deposit. A financial security for Erosion and Sediment
Control, as determined by the city, shall be by cash deposit to the city. The
cash will be held by city in a separate account.
      (2)   Security deposit. Deposit, either with the city, a responsible
escrow agent, or trust company, at the option of the city, either:
         (a)   An irrevocable letter of credit, negotiable bonds of the kind
approved for securing deposits of public money, or other instruments of credit
from one or more financial institutions, subject to regulation by the state and
federal government wherein said financial institution pledges funds are on
deposit and guaranteed for payment.
         (b)   Cash in U.S. currency.
         (c)   Other forms and securities (e.g., disbursing agreement) as
approved by the city.
   (E)   City indemnity. This financial security shall hold the city free and
harmless from all suits or claims for damages resulting from the negligent
grading, removal, placement or storage of rock, sand, gravel, soil or other
like material within the city.
   (F)   Maintaining the financial security. If at any time during the course
of the work the balance of the financial security falls below 50% of the total
required deposit, the Applicant shall make another deposit in the amount
necessary to restore the cash deposit to the required amount. If the Applicant
does not bring the financial security back up to the required amount within
seven days after notification by the city that the amount has fallen below 50%
of the required amount the city may:
      (1)   Withhold inspections. Withhold the scheduling of inspections and/or
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      (2)   Revoke permits. Revoke any permit issued by the city to the
Applicant for the site in question or any other of the Applicant's sites within
the city's jurisdiction.
   (G)   Action against the financial security. The city may access the
financial security for remediation actions if any of the conditions listed
below exist. The city shall use the financial security to pay for remedial work
undertaken by the city, or a private contractor under contract with the city,
or to reimburse the city for all costs incurred in the process of remedial work
including, but not limited to, staff time and attorney's fees.
      (1)   Abandonment. The Applicant ceases land disturbing activities and/or
filling and abandons the work site prior to completion of the grading plan.
       (2)   Failure to implement the SWPPP or ESC Plan. The Applicant fails to
conform to the grading plan and/or the SWPPP as approved by the city.
      (3)   Failure to perform. The BMPs utilized on the project fail within
one year of installation.
         (a)   Failure to reimburse city. The Applicant fails to reimburse the
city for corrective action taken.
   (H)   Proportional reduction of the financial security. When more than one-
third of the Applicant's maximum exposed soil area achieves final
stabilization, the city can reduce the total required amount of the financial
security by one-third. When more than two-thirds of the Applicant's maximum
exposed soil area achieves final stabilization, the city can reduce the total
required amount of the financial security to two-thirds of the initial amount
this reduction in financial security will be determined by the city.
   (I)   Returning the financial security. The security deposited with the city
for faithful performance of the SWPPP or the ESC Plan and any related remedial
work shall be released one full year after the completion of the installation
of all Stormwater pollution control measures, including vegetation
establishment, as shown on the SWPPP or ESC Plan.
   (J)   Emergency action. If circumstances exist such that noncompliance with
this subchapter poses an immediate danger to the public health, safety and
welfare, as determined by the city, the city may take emergency preventative
action. The city shall also take every reasonable action possible to contact
and direct the Applicant to take any necessary action. Any cost to the city for
emergency action may be recovered from the Applicant's financial security.
§ 150.46 ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
   (A) notification of failure of the permit. The city shall notify the permit
holder of the failure of the permit's measures.
      (1)   Initial contact. The initial contact will be to the party or
parties listed on the application and/or the SWPPP as contacts. Except during
an emergency action, 48 hours after notification by the city or 72 hours after
the failure of Erosion and Sediment Control measures, whichever is less, the
city at its discretion, may begin corrective work. Such notification should be
in writing, but if it is verbal, a written notification should follow as
quickly as practical. If after making a good faith effort to notify the
responsible party or parties, the city has been unable to establish contact,
the city may proceed with corrective work. There are conditions when time is of
the essence in controlling Erosion. During such a condition the city may take
immediate action, and then notify the Applicant as soon as possible.
      (2)   Erosion off-site. If Erosion breaches the perimeter of the site,
the Applicant shall immediately develop a cleanup and restoration plan, obtain
the right-of-entry from the adjoining property Owner, and implement the cleanup
and restoration plan within 48 hours of obtaining the adjoining property
Owner's permission. In no case, unless written approval is received from the
city, may move than seven calendar days go by without corrective action being
taken. If in the discretion of the city, the permit holder does not repair the
damage caused by the Erosion, the city may do the remedial work required. When
restoration to Wetlands and other resources are required, the Applicant shall
be required to work with the appropriate agencies to ensure that the work is
done properly.
      (3)   Erosion into streets, Wetlands or water bodies. If eroded soils
(including tracked soils from construction activities) enter or appear likely
to enter streets, Wetlands, or other water bodies, cleanup and repair shall be
immediate. The Applicant shall provide air traffic control and flagging
required to protect the traveling public during the cleanup operations.
      (4)   Failure to do corrective work. When an Applicant fails to conform
to any provision of this policy within the time stipulated, the city may take
the following actions.
         (a)   Stop work order. Issue a stop work order, withhold the
scheduling of inspections, and/or withhold the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy.
            (b)   Permit revocation. Revoke any permit issued by the city to
the Applicant for the site in question or any other of the Applicant's sites
within the city's jurisdiction.
            (c)   Correction by city. Correct the deficiency or hire a
contractor to correct the deficiency.
            1.   The Applicant will be required to reimburse the city for all
costs incurred in correcting Stormwater pollution control deficiencies. If
payment is not made within 30 days after costs are incurred by the city,
payment will be made from the Applicant's financial securities as described in
§ 150.45.
            2.   If there is an insufficient financial amount in the
Applicant's financial securities as described in §
150.45, the city may assess the remaining amount against the property. As a
condition of the permit, the Owner shall waive notice of any assessment hearing
to be conducted by the city, concur that the benefit to the property exceeds
the amount of the proposed assessment, and waive all rights by virtue of M.S. §
429.081 to challenge the amount or validity of assessment.
   (B)   Misdemeanor. Any person, firm or corporation failing to comply with,
or violating any of these regulations, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and be subject to a fine or imprisonment or both in accordance with Minnesota
Statute 609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be amended from time to time; and the cost of
prosecution may be added pursuant to Minn. Stat. §631.48.
      (1)   All land use and Building permits may be suspended until the
Applicant has corrected the violation.
      (2)   Each day that a separate violation exists shall constitute a
separate offense.
CHAPTER 151: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS AND STRUCTURES
Section
   
151.01   General purposes
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Permitted use
   
151.04   Variances
   
151.05   Access to direct sunlight
   
151.06   Evidence of existing conditions
   
151.07   Approval of systems or structures
   
151.08   Violation
§ 151.01 GENERAL PURPOSES.
   The general purposes of this chapter are to protect access to direct
sunlight for Solar Energy Systems and to permit use of Solar Energy Systems to
help offset the projected scarcity and high cost of conventional fuels.
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Any device or a set of devices whose primary purpose is
to collect solar energy and convert and/or store it for useful purposes,
including heating and cooling of buildings and other energy-using processes, or
to produce generated power by means of any combination of collecting,
transferring or converting solar-generated energy.
   SOLAR STRUCTURE. Any residential, commercial, industrial or business
structure directly connected to Solar Energy System. All Solar Energy Systems
shall be considered part of the principal structure which they serve and shall
not be considered as accessory structures or buildings in and of themselves.
§ 151.03 PERMITTED USE.
   Solar Energy Systems and Solar Structures shall be permitted in all
districts provided that the system is in compliance with the established
dimensional requirements and other provisions of the ordinances of the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.04 VARIANCES.
   Request for variance shall be applied for and processed in the same manner
as is set forth in Chapter 300, Section 503 of the code of ordinances of the
city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.05 ACCESS TO DIRECT SUNLIGHT.
   In any zone, residential, commercial or industrial, no owner, occupier or
person in control of property shall allow vegetation or structures to be placed
thereon so as to cast a shadow on a Solar Energy System or Solar Structure
which is greater or higher than the shadow cast by a hypothetical wall of ten
feet located along the boundary line of said property between the hours of 9:30
a.m. and 2:30 p.m. Central Standard Time on December 21. Provided, however,
that this standard shall not apply to vegetation or structures which cast a
shadow upon the Solar Energy System at the time of its installation or as to
the vegetation existing at the time of installation of the said Solar Energy
System or Solar Structure which grows to a height so as to cast a shadow upon
the Solar Energy System or Solar Structure.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.06 EVIDENCE OF EXISTING CONDITIONS.
   As a means of evidencing existing conditions, the owner of a Solar Energy
System shall file with the City Clerk-Administrator an affidavit containing the
following information:
   (A)   The applicant's full name and address, together with the full name and
address of the fee owner of the property if different than that of the
applicant;
   (B)   A legal description of the property affected;
   (C)   A certificate of survey or other document specifying the boundary
lines of the affected property upon which the Solar Energy System is located;
   (D)   The names and addresses of all abutting owners to the affected
property;
   (E)   Attaching photographs of the affected property depicting the Solar
Energy System, the property upon which it is located and its location with
regard to neighboring properties; and
   (F)   A statement by the applicant that they have served, either personally
or by registered or certified mail, all adjoining property owners with a notice
that the applicant would be filing an affidavit pursuant to this section with
the City Clerk-Administrator and that they would have 30 days to review same
and make any objections thereto by filing same with the City Clerk-
Administrator. In the event no objections are filed with the City Clerk-
Administrator within 30 days of the filing of the applicant's affidavit, the
photographs attached thereto shall be presumed to be a true and correct
pictorial depiction of the Solar Energy System, its location upon the affected
property and of all existing structures, trees, shrubberies and other
vegetation upon the affected property and upon all adjoining properties. Should
a timely notice of objection be filed by any adjoining property owner, no
presumption hereunder shall be created.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.07 APPROVAL OF SYSTEMS OR STRUCTURES.
   For all permits required under §
150.01, no building permit, which includes a Solar Energy System or Solar
Structure, shall be issued without the property owner or his or her designated
agent first having obtained approval in writing from the Building Inspector
with regard to a Solar Energy System or Solar Structure. The Building Inspector
may require a Solar Energy System or Solar Structure plan prior to issuing the
building permit. Adding a Solar Energy System to an existing building will
require a building permit.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.08 VIOLATION.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter is declared to be a nuisance
affecting the public health, safety and general welfare and shall be prohibited
as specified in §§
93.01 through
93.07.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Lands to which ordinance applies
   
152.05   Establishment of official zoning map
   
152.06   Regulatory Flood protection elevation
   
152.07   Interpretation
   
152.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.09   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.10   Definitions
   
152.11   Annexations
   
152.12   Non-conforming uses
   
152.13   Amendments
Administration
   
152.25   Zoning Administrator
   
152.26   Permits, certification requirements and record keeping
   
152.27   Appeals and Variances; duties of the Board of Adjustment
   
152.28   Conditional Uses-standards and evaluation procedures
Flood Hazard Prevention
   
152.40   Establishment of zoning districts
   
152.41   Floodway District (FW)
   
152.42   Flood Fringe District (FF)
   
152.43   Subdivisions
   
152.44   Utilities, railroads, roads and bridges
   
152.45   Manufactured Homes/travel trailers and travel vehicles
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in M.S. Chapters 103F and 462, as they may
be amended from time to time, delegated the responsibility to local government
units to adopt regulations designed to minimize Flood losses. Therefore, the
City Council does ordain as follows in this chapter.
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The Flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in potential loss of life, loss of property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for Flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   This chapter is based upon a reasonable method of analyzing Flood
hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the State
Department of Natural Resources.
   (C)   This chapter is adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of
the national Flood insurance program codified as 44 C.F.R. parts 59 through 78,
as amended, so as to maintain the city's eligibility in the national Flood
insurance program.
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
152.02(A) by provisions contained herein.
§ 152.04 LANDS TO WHICH ORDINANCE APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city
shown on the official zoning map and/or the attachments thereto as being
located within the boundaries of the Floodway and Flood Fringe Districts.
§ 152.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The official zoning map together with all materials attached thereto is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The
attached material shall include the Flood Insurance Study for Washington
County, Minnesota and Incorporated Areas and Flood Insurance Rate Map Panel
therein numbered 27163C0367E, both dated February 3, 2010, and prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The official zoning map shall be on file
in the office of the City Clerk-Administrator.
§ 152.06 REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   The regulatory Flood protection elevation shall be an elevation no lower
than one foot above the elevation of the regional Flood plus any increases in
Flood elevation caused by encroachments on the Floodplain that result from
designation of a Floodway.
§ 152.07 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the City Council and shall not be deemed a limitation or
repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
   (B)   The boundaries of the zoning districts shall be determined by scaling
distances on the official zoning map. Where interpretation is needed as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the district as shown on the official
zoning map, as for example where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions and there is a formal appeal of the
decision of the Zoning Administrator, the Board of Adjustment shall make the
necessary interpretation. All decisions will be based on elevations on the
regional (100-year) Flood profile, the ground elevations that existed on the
site at the time the city adopted its initial Floodplain ordinance or on the
date of the first national Flood insurance program map showing the area within
the 100-year Floodplain if earlier, and other available technical data. Persons
contesting the location of the district boundaries shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to present their case to the Board of Adjustment and to submit
technical evidence.
§ 152.08 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All
other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the
extent of the inconsistency only.
§ 152.09 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not imply that areas outside the Floodplain districts or
land uses permitted within such districts will be free from Flooding or Flood
damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city or any
officer or employee thereof for any Flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
§ 152.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A USE or STRUCTURE on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the Principal Use or
Structure.
   BASE FLOOD. The Flood having a one-percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. "Base Flood" is synonymous with the term "regional
Flood" used in Minnesota Rules, part 6120.5000.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the base Flood, regional Flood,
or one-percent annual chance Flood. The term "Base Flood Elevation" is used in
the Flood insurance study.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a Structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of the
depth of excavation below ground level.
   BUILDING. See Structure.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct flowing water either continuously
or periodically.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A specific type of Structure or land use listed in the
official control that may be allowed but only after an in-depth review
procedure and with appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in the
official zoning controls or building codes and upon a finding that:
      (1)   Certain conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist; and
      (2)   The Structure and/or land use conform to the comprehensive land use
plan if one exists and are compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   CRITICAL FACILITIES. Buildings and Structures that contain essential
facilities and services necessary for emergency response and recovery, or that
pose a substantial risk to the public in the event of failure, disruption of
function, or damage by Flooding. Specifically, this includes facilities
identified as Flood Design Class 4 in ASCE 24-14, Flood Resistant Design and
Construction, as amended. Examples include health care facilities, facilities
required for emergency response, power generating stations, communications
towers, or electrical substations.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to buildings or other Structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
Floodway boundaries so that Floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of Flood flows.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FARM FENCE. An open type of fence of posts and horizontally run wire,
further specified in Minnesota Statutes, section 344.02, Subd. 1(a-d).
   FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the stage
of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry areas.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The FREQUENCY for which it is expected that a specific
Flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the Floodplain outside of the Floodway. FLOOD
FRINGE is synonymous with the term FLOODWAY FRINGE used in the Flood insurance
study for the county and incorporated areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special Flood hazard areas and
the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made
available digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The study referenced in Section 3.2, which is
an examination, evaluation and determination of Flood hazards, and if
appropriate, corresponding surface elevations, or an examination, evaluation,
and determination of mudslide (i.e. mudflow) and/or Flood-related erosion
hazards.
   FLOODPLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional Flood.
   GENERAL FLOODPLAIN. Those Floodplains designated on the Flood Insurance Rate
Maps referenced in Section 3.2, but that do not have a delineated Floodway.
   LIGHT DUTY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle that has all three of the following:
      A.   8,500 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight Rating or less;
      B.   vehicle curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less; and
      C.   basic vehicle frontal area less than 45 square feet.
   FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and Structures subject to Flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of Flood damages.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining Floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional Flood discharge.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The LOWEST FLOOR of the lowest enclosed area (including
Basement). An unfinished or Flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a Basement area,
is not considered a building's LOWEST FLOOR.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A Structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include the term "Recreational Vehicle".
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of an adopted Floodplain management regulation,
and includes any subsequent improvements to such Structures.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, Structure or matter in, along, across or projecting
into any channel, watercourse or regulatory Floodplain which may impede, retard
or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching
or collecting debris carried by such water.
   PRINCIPAL USE OR STRUCTURE. All USES or STRUCTURES that are not Accessory
Uses or Structures.
   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by a natural or human-made Obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge crossings
would most typically constitute a REACH.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck and
is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use. For the
purposes of this chapter, the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall be synonymous
with the term "Travel Trailer/Travel Vehicle".
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A Flood which is representative of large Floods known to
have occurred generally in the state and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average Frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term base Flood used
in a Flood insurance study.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. An ELEVATION no lower than one foot
above the ELEVATION of the regional Flood plus any increases in FLOOD ELEVATION
caused by encroachments on the Floodplain that result from designation of a
Floodway.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a Structure on two
separate occasions during a ten year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such Flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the Structure before the damage occurred.
   STAGE INCREASE. Any increase in the water surface elevation during the one
percent annual chance Flood caused by encroachments on the Floodplain.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes Substantial Improvement, and means the date
the permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a Structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
Manufactured Home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
Basement, footings, piers, foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor
does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such
as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
Structure. For a Substantial Improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, Manufactured Homes, Recreational
Vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in §
152.45(B)(1) and other similar items.
   SUBDIVISION. Land that has been divided for the purpose of sale, rent, or
lease, including planned unit developments.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. DAMAGE of any origin sustained by a Structure where the
cost of restoring the Structure to its before DAMAGED condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the Structure before the DAMAGE occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition or other IMPROVEMENT of a Structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the Structure before the
start of construction of the IMPROVEMENT. This term includes Structures that
have incurred Substantial Damage, regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a Structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of an historic Structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the Structure's continued designation as an
historic Structure. For the purpose of this chapter, historic Structure shall
be as defined in 44 C.F.R. part 59.1.
   VARIANCE. A modification of a specific permitted development standard
required in an official control including this chapter to allow an alternative
development standard not stated as acceptable in the official control, but only
as applied to a particular property for the purpose of alleviating a hardship,
practical difficulty or unique circumstance as defined and elaborated upon in a
city's respective planning and zoning enabling legislation.
   Watercourse. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently in a definitive direction. The term applies to either natural
or artificially constructed channels.
§ 152.11 ANNEXATIONS.
   The Flood insurance rate map panels adopted by reference into §
152.05 may include Floodplain areas that lie outside of the corporate
boundaries of the city at the time of adoption of this chapter. If any of these
Floodplain land areas are annexed into the city after the date of adoption of
this chapter, the newly annexed Floodplain lands shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter immediately upon the date of annexation into the
city.
§ 152.12 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A Structure or the use of a Structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   No such use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged or altered in a
way that increases its nonconformity.
      (2)   Any structural alteration or addition to a non-conforming Structure
or non-conforming use which would result in increasing the Flood damage
potential of that Structure or use shall be protected to the regulatory Flood
protection elevation in accordance with any of the elevation on fill or Flood
proofing techniques (i.e., FP-1 through FP-4 Floodproofing classifications)
allowable in the State Building Code, except as further restricted in division
(A)(5) below.
      (3)   If any non-conforming use is discontinued for 12 consecutive
months, any future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
The Assessor shall notify the Zoning Administrator in writing of instances of
non-conforming uses that have been discontinued for a period of 12 months.
      (4)   If any non-conforming use or Structure is substantially damaged, as
defined in §
152.10, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter. The applicable provisions for establishing new uses or new
Structures in §§
152.41 and
152.42 will apply depending upon whether the use or Structure is in the
Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively.
      (5)   If a Substantial Improvement occurs, as defined in §
152.10, from any combination of a building addition to the outside dimensions
of the existing building or a rehabilitation, reconstruction, alteration or
other improvement to the inside dimensions of an existing non-conforming
building, then the building addition and the existing non-conforming building
must meet the requirements of §
152.41 or §
152.42 for new Structures, depending upon whether the Structure is in the
Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively. If a Substantial Improvement
occurs only from a building addition, then the building addition must meet the
elevation on fill or FP-1 or FP-2 dry Floodproofing requirements of §
152.41 or §
152.42 for new Structures and the existing Structure must also meet the
elevation on fill or FP-1 or FP-2 dry Floodproofing requirements of §
152.41 or §
152.42 for new Structures if any alteration is made to the common wall in
excess of installing a standard doorway.
   (B)   Historic Structures, as defined in §
152.10, shall be subject to the provisions of divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4)
above.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.13 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Floodplain designation on the official zoning map shall not be
removed from Floodplain areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in
error or that the area has been filled to or above the elevation of the
regulatory Flood protection elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the
Floodplain. Special exceptions to this rule may be permitted by the
Commissioner of Natural Resources if they determine that, through other
measures, lands are adequately protected for the intended use.
   (B)   All amendments to this chapter, including amendments to the official
zoning map, must be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of Natural
Resources prior to adoption. Changes in the official zoning map must meet the
Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) technical conditions and criteria
and must receive prior FEMA approval before adoption. The Commissioner of
Natural Resources must be given ten days' written notice of all hearings to
consider an amendment to this chapter and said notice shall include a draft of
the ordinance amendment or technical study under consideration.
Penalty, see §
152.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.25 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   A Zoning Administrator or other official designated by the City Council
shall administer and enforce this chapter. If the Zoning Administrator finds a
violation of the provisions of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall
notify the person responsible for such violation in accordance with the
procedures stated in § 152.99
§ 152.26 PERMITS, CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS AND RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   Permit required. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter shall be secured prior to:
      (1)   The erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation (including
normal maintenance and repair) or alteration of any building, Structure or
portion thereof;
      (2)   The use or change of use of a building, Structure or land;
      (3)   The construction of a dam, fence or on-site septic system;
      (4)   The change of a non-conforming use;
      (5)   The repair of a Structure that has been damaged by Flood, fire,
tornado or any other source; and
      (6)   The placement of fill, excavation of materials or the storage of
materials or equipment within the Floodplain.
   (B)   Application for permit. Application for a permit shall be made in
duplicate to the Zoning Administrator on forms furnished by the Zoning
Administrator and shall include the following where applicable:
      (1)   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale, showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the lot;
      (2)   Existing or proposed Structures, fill or storage of materials; and
      (3)   The location of the foregoing in relation to the stream channel.
   (C)   State and federal permits. Prior to granting a permit or processing an
application for a Conditional Use permit or Variance, the Zoning Administrator
shall determine that the applicant has obtained all necessary state and federal
permits.
   (D)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered or non-conforming
use. It shall be unlawful to use, occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any
building or premises or part thereof hereafter created, erected, changed,
converted or altered, in its use or Structure until a certificate of zoning
compliance shall have been issued by the Zoning Administrator stating that the
use of the building or land conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Construction and use to be as provided on applications, plans,
permits, Variances and certificates of zoning compliance. Permits, Conditional
Use permits or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the basis of
approved plans and applications authorize only the use, arrangement and
construction set forth in such approved plans and applications, and no other
use, arrangement or construction. Any use, arrangement or construction at
Variance with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and
punishable as provided by §
152.99.
   (F)   Certification. The applicant shall be required to submit certification
by a registered professional engineer, registered architect or registered land
surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were accomplished in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Floodproofing measures shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or registered architect.
   (G)   Record of first floor elevation. The Zoning Administrator shall
maintain a record of the elevation of the Lowest Floor (including Basement) of
all new Structures and alterations or additions to existing Structures in the
Floodplain. The Zoning Administrator shall also maintain a record of the
elevation to which Structures or alterations and additions to Structures are
Floodproofed.
   (H)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. The Zoning Administrator
shall notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the Commissioner
of the Department of Natural Resources prior to the city authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse. If the applicant has applied for a
permit to work in the beds of public waters pursuant to M.S. Chapter 103G, as
it may be amended from time to time, this shall suffice as adequate notice to
the Commissioner of Natural Resources. A copy of said notification shall also
be submitted to the Chicago Regional Office of the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA).
   (I)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease the
100-year Flood elevation. As soon as is practicable, but not later than six
months after the date such supporting information becomes available, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the changes
by submitting a copy of said technical or scientific data.
§ 152.27 APPEALS AND VARIANCES; DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Rules. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for the conduct of
business and may exercise all of the powers conferred on such boards by state
law.
   (B)   Administrative review. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide
appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision
or determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Variances. The Board of Adjustment may authorize upon appeal in
specific cases such relief or Variance from the terms of this chapter as will
not be contrary to the public interest and only for those circumstances such as
hardship, practical difficulties or circumstances unique to the property under
consideration, as provided for in the respective enabling legislation for
planning and zoning for cities or counties as appropriate.
      (1)   In the granting of such Variance, the Board of Adjustment shall
clearly identify in writing the specific conditions that existed consistent
with the criteria specified in this chapter, any other zoning regulations in
the city and in the respective enabling legislation that justified the granting
of the Variance.
      (2)   No Variance shall have the effect of allowing in any district uses
prohibited in that district, permit a lower degree of Flood protection than the
regulatory Flood protection elevation for the particular area, or permit
standards lower than those required by state law.
      (3)   The following additional Variance criteria of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency must be satisfied.
         (a)   Variances shall not be issued by a city within any designated
regulatory Floodway if any increase in Flood levels during the base Flood
discharge would result.
         (b)   Variances shall only be issued by a city upon:
            1. A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2. A determination that failure to grant the Variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            3. A determination that the granting of a Variance will not result
in increased Flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
Variance is the minimum necessary, considering the Flood hazard, to afford
relief.
   (D)   Hearings. Upon filing with the Board of Adjustment of an appeal from a
decision of the Zoning Administrator, or an application for a Variance, the
Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for a hearing and give due
notice to the parties in interest as specified by law. The Board of Adjustment
shall submit by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources a copy of the
application for proposed Variances sufficiently in advance so that the
Commissioner will receive at least ten days' notice of the hearing.
   (E)   Decisions. The Board of Adjustment shall make a final decision on such
appeal or Variance within 60 days, or within 120 days if notice of additional
time is given. In passing upon an appeal, the Board of Adjustment may, so long
as such action is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or
affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Zoning Administrator or other public official. It shall
make its decision in writing setting forth the findings of fact and the reasons
for its decisions. In granting a Variance the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards such as those specified in §
152.28(G), which are in conformity with the purposes of this chapter.
Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the Variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter punishable under §
152.99. A copy of all decisions granting Variances shall be forwarded by mail
to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of such action.
   (F)   Appeals. Appeals from any decision of the Board of Adjustment may be
made, and as specified in this city's official controls and also by state
statutes.
   (G)   Flood insurance notice and record keeping.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant for a Variance
that:
         (a)   The issuance of a Variance to construct a Structure below the
base Flood level will result in increased premium rates for Flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the 100-year or regional Flood level
increases risks to life and property.
      (2)   Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all Variance
actions. The city shall maintain a record of all Variance actions, including
justification for their issuance, and report such Variances issued in its
annual or biennial report submitted to the administrator of the national Flood
insurance program.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.28 CONDITIONAL USES-STANDARDS AND EVALUATION PROCEDURES.
   The City Council, following review and recommendation by the Planning
Commission, shall hear and decide applications for Conditional Uses permissible
under this chapter.
   (A)   Submission of application; final decision. Applications shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator who shall forward the application to the
Planning Commission for review and recommendation. Final decision on
applications shall be made by the City Council.
   (B)   Hearings. Upon filing with the Zoning Administration application for a
Conditional Use permit, the Zoning Administrator shall submit by mail to the
Commissioner of Natural Resources a copy of the application for proposed
Conditional Use sufficiently in advance so that the Commissioner will receive
at least ten days' notice of the hearing.
   (C)   Decisions. The City Council shall make a final a decision on a
Conditional Use within 60 days, or within 120 days if notice of additional time
is given. In granting a Conditional Use permit the City Council shall prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards, in addition to those specified in
division (G) below, which are in conformity with the purposes of this chapter.
Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the Conditional Use permit is granted, shall be deemed a violation
of this chapter punishable under §
152.99. A copy of all decisions granting Conditional Use permits shall be
forwarded by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of
such action.
   (D)   Procedures. The following procedures shall be followed by the City
Council in passing on Conditional Use permit applications within all Floodplain
districts.
      (1)   Require the applicant to furnish such of the following information
and additional information as deemed necessary by the City Council for
determining the suitability of the particular site for the proposed use:
         (a)   Plans in triplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevation of the lot, existing or proposed Structures, fill,
storage of materials, Floodproofing measures and the relationship of the above
to the location of the stream channel; and
         (b)   Specifications for building construction and materials,
Floodproofing, filling, dredging, grading, channel improvement, storage of
materials, water supply and sanitary facilities.
      (2)   Transmit one copy of the information described in division (D)(1)
above to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for technical
assistance, where necessary, in evaluating the proposed project in relation to
Flood heights and velocities, the seriousness of Flood damage to the use, the
adequacy of the plans for protection and other technical matters.
      (3)   Based upon the technical evaluation of the designated engineer or
expert, the City Council shall determine the specific Flood hazard at the site
and evaluate the suitability of the proposed use in relation to the Flood
hazard.
   (E)   Factors upon which the decision of the City Council shall be based. In
passing upon Conditional Use applications, the City Council shall consider all
relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter and the following:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to increased Flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others or they may block bridges, culverts or other
hydraulic Structures;
      (3)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions;
      (4)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
Flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (5)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the city;
      (6)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to Flooding
for the proposed use;
      (8)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
      (9)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
Floodplain management program for the area;
      (10)   The safety of access to the property in times of Flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
      (11)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the Flood waters expected at the site; and
      (12)   Such other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this
chapter.
   (F)   Time for acting on application. The City Council shall act on an
application in the manner described above within 60 days from receiving the
application, except that where additional information is required pursuant to
division (D) above. The City Council shall render a written decision within 60
days from the receipt of such additional information.
   (G)   Conditions attached to Conditional Use permits. Upon consideration of
the factors listed above and the purpose of this chapter, the City Council
shall attach such conditions to the granting of Conditional Use permits as it
deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter. Such conditions may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Modification of waste treatment and water supply facilities;
      (2)   Limitations on period of use, occupancy and operation;
      (3)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties and deed restrictions;
      (4)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees and other protective measures; and
      (5)   Floodproofing measures, in accordance with the State Building Code
and this chapter. The applicant shall submit a plan or document certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect that the Floodproofing measures
are consistent with the regulatory Flood protection elevation and associated
Flood factors for the particular area.
Penalty, see §
152.99
FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
§ 152.40 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Districts.
      (1)   Floodway District. For the St. Croix River, the Floodway District
shall include those areas designated as Zone AE on the Flood insurance rate map
panels adopted in § 152.05 that are below the ordinary high water level as
defined in M.S. § 103G.005, subd. 14, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Flood Fringe District. For the St. Croix River, the Flood Fringe
District shall include those areas designated as Zone AE on the Flood insurance
rate map panels adopted in § 152.05 that are below the 100-year Flood elevation
but above the ordinary high water level as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, subd.
14, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Compliance. No new Structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
Structure shall be constructed, located, extended, converted or structurally
altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this
chapter.
      (1)   Within the Floodway and Flood Fringe Districts, all uses not listed
as permitted uses or Conditional Uses in §§
152.41 and
152.42 that follow, respectively, shall be prohibited.
      (2)   In addition, a caution is provided here that:
         (a)   New Manufactured Homes, replacement Manufactured Homes and
certain travel trailers and travel vehicles are subject to the general
provisions of this chapter and specifically §
152.45;
         (b)   Modifications, additions, structural alterations, normal
maintenance and repair or repair after damage to existing non-conforming
Structures and non-conforming uses of Structures or land are regulated by the
general provisions of this chapter and specifically §
152.12; and
         (c)   As-built elevations for elevated or Floodproofed Structures must
be certified by ground surveys and Floodproofing techniques must be designed
and certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as specified
in the general provisions of this chapter and specifically as stated in §§
152.25 through
152.28.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.41 FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW).
   The permitted and Conditional Uses listed below are only allowable in the
Floodway if not prohibited by any other underlying zoning district
classifications of the city and if not prohibited by any applicable state or
federal law.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   General tanning, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture and wild crop harvesting;
      (2)   Boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature
preserves and fishing areas; and
      (3)   Residential lawns, gardens and play areas.
   (B)   Standards for Floodway permitted uses.
      (1)   The use shall have a low Flood damage potential;
      (2)   The use shall be permissible in the underlying zoning district if
one exists; and
      (3)   The use shall not obstruct Flood flows or increase Flood elevations
and shall not involve Structures, fill, Obstructions, excavations or storage of
materials or equipment.
   (C)   Conditional Uses.
      (1)   Extraction and storage of sand, gravel and other materials;
      (2)   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves and water control
Structures;
      (3)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines and
pipelines; and
      (4)   Placement of fill.
   (D)   Standards for Floodway Conditional Uses.
      (1)   All uses. No fill (including fill for roads and levees), deposit,
Obstruction or other uses may be allowed as a Conditional Use that will cause
any increase in the stage of the 100-year or regional Flood or cause an
increase in Flood damages in the Reach or Reaches affected.
      (2)   Standards. All Floodway Conditional Uses shall be subject to the
procedures and standards contained in §
152.28.
      (3)   Underlying zoning district. The Conditional Use shall be
permissible in the underlying zoning district if one exists.
      (4)   Fill.
         (a)   Fill, dredge spoil and all other similar materials deposited or
stored in the Floodplain shall be protected from erosion by vegetative cover,
mulching, riprap or other acceptable method.
         (b)   Dredge spoil sites and sand and gravel operations shall not be
allowed in the Floodway unless a long-term site development plan is submitted
which includes an erosion/sedimentation prevention element to the plan.
         (c)   As an alternative, and consistent with division (D)(4)(b)
immediately above, dredge spoil disposal and sand and gravel operations may
allow temporary, on-site storage of fill or other materials which would have
caused an increase to the stage of the 100-year or regional Flood but only
after the City Council has received an appropriate plan which assures the
removal of the materials from the Floodway based upon the Flood warning time
available. The Conditional Use permit must be title registered with the
property in the office of the County Recorder.
   (E)   Storage of materials and equipment. Storage of other materials or
equipment may be allowed if readily removable from the area within the time
available after a Flood warning and in accordance with a plan approved by the
City Council. The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
Flooding, flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited.
   (F)   Structural works. City-wide structural works for Flood control
intended to remove areas from the regulatory Floodplain shall not be allowed in
the Floodway.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.42 FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (FF).
   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall be those uses of land or
Structures listed as permitted uses in the underlying zoning use districts. If
no pre-existing, underlying zoning use districts exist, then any residential or
non-residential Structure or use of a Structure or land shall be a permitted
use in the Flood Fringe District provided such use does not constitute a public
nuisance. All permitted uses shall comply with the standards for Flood Fringe
District permitted uses listed in division (B) below and the standards for all
Flood Fringe uses listed in division (E) below.
   (B)   Standards for Flood Fringe permitted uses.
      (1)   All Structures, including accessory Structures, must be elevated on
fill so that the Lowest Floor including Basement floor is at or above the
regulatory Flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for
Structures shall be no lower than one foot below the regulatory Flood
protection elevation and the fill shall extend at such elevation at least 15
feet beyond the outside limits of the Structure erected thereon.
      (2)   As an alternative to elevation on fill, accessory Structures that
constitute a minimal investment and that do not exceed 500 square feet at its
largest projection may be Floodproofed in accordance with the following
standards.
         (a)   Accessory Structures shall not be designed for human habitation.
         (b)   Accessory Structures shall be elevated on fill or structurally
dry Floodproofed in accordance with the FP-1 or FP-2 Floodproofing
classifications in the State Building Code. As an alternative, an accessory
Structure may be Floodproofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 Floodproofing classification
in the State Building Code and, for a detached garage, the detached garage must
be used solely for parking of vehicles and limited storage.
         (c)   Floodproofed accessory Structures must meet the following
additional standards:
            1.   The Structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the Structure and shall be designed
to equalize hydrostatic Flood forces on exterior walls;
            2.   Any mechanical and utility equipment in a Structure must be
elevated to or above the regulatory Flood protection elevation or properly
Floodproofed; and
            3.   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure, there
must be a minimum of two automatic openings in the outside walls of the
Structure having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to Flooding. There must be openings on at
least two sides of the Structure and the bottom of all openings must be no
higher than one foot above the lowest adjacent grade to the Structure. Using
human intervention to open a garage door prior to Flooding will not satisfy
this requirement for automatic openings.
      (3)   The cumulative placement of fill where at any one time in excess of
1,000 cubic yards of fill is located on the parcel shall be allowable only as a
Conditional Use, unless said fill is specifically intended to elevate a
Structure in accordance with division (B)(1) above.
      (4)   The storage of any materials or equipment shall be elevated on fill
to the regulatory Flood protection elevation.
      (5)   The provisions of division (E) below shall apply.
   (C)   Conditional Uses. Any Structure that is not elevated on fill or
Floodproofed in accordance with divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above and/or any
use of land that does not comply with the standards in divisions (B)(3) and (B)
(4) above shall only be allowable as a Conditional Use. An application for a
Conditional Use shall be subject to the standards and criteria and evaluation
procedures specified in divisions (D) and (E) above and §
152.28.
   (D)   Standards for Flood Fringe Conditional Uses.
      (1)   Alternative elevation methods. Alternative elevation methods other
than the use of fill may be utilized to elevate a Structure's Lowest Floor
above the regulatory Flood protection elevation. These alternative methods may
include the use of stilts, pilings, parallel walls and the like or above-grade,
enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages.
         (a)   The base or floor of an enclosed area shall be considered above-
grade and not a Structure's Basement or Lowest Floor if:
            1.   The enclosed area is above-grade on at least one side of the
Structure;
            2.   It is designed to internally Flood and is constructed with
Flood resistant materials; and
            3.   It is used solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage.
         (b)   The above-noted alternative elevation methods are subject to the
following additional standards.
            1.   Design and certification. The Structure's design and as-built
condition must be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
as being in compliance with the general design standards of the State Building
Code and, specifically, that all electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and
air-conditioning equipment and other service facilities must be at or above the
regulatory Flood protection elevation or be designed to prevent Flood water
from entering or accumulating within these components during times of Flooding.
            2. Specific standards for above-grade, enclosed areas. Above-grade,
fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages must be
designed to internally Flood and the design plans must stipulate:
               a. A minimum area of openings in the walls where internal
Flooding is to be used as a Floodproofing technique. There shall be a minimum
of two openings on at least two sides of the Structure and the bottom of all
openings shall be no higher than one-foot above grade. The automatic openings
shall have a minimum net area of not less than one square inch for every square
foot of enclosed area subject to Flooding unless a registered professional
engineer or architect certifies that a smaller net area would suffice. The
automatic openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
Flood waters without any form of human intervention; and
               b. That the enclosed area will be designed of Flood resistant
materials in accordance with the FP-3 or FP-4 classifications in the State
Building Code and shall be used solely for building access, parking of vehicles
or storage.
      (2)   Basements. Basements, as defined by §
152.10, shall be subject to the following.
         (a)   Residential Basement construction shall not be allowed below the
regulatory Flood protection elevation.
         (b)   Non-residential Basements may be allowed below the regulatory
Flood protection elevation provided the Basement is structurally dry
Floodproofed in accordance with division (D)(3) below.
      (3)   Floodproofing. All areas of non-residential Structures including
Basements to be placed below the regulatory Flood protection elevation shall be
Floodproofed in accordance with the structurally dry Floodproofing
classifications in the State Building Code. Structurally dry Floodproofing must
meet the FP-1 or FP-2 Floodproofing classification in the State Building Code
and this shall require making the Structure watertight with the walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effects of buoyancy. Structures Floodproofed to the FP-3 or FP-
4 classification shall not be permitted.
      (4)   Storage of materials and equipment.
         (a)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
Flooding, flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited.
         (b)   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a Flood warning
and in accordance with a plan approved by the City Council.
      (5)   Other provisions. The provisions of division (E) below shall also
apply.
   (E)   Standards for all Flood Fringe uses.
      (1)   Commercial uses. Accessory land uses, such as yards, railroad
tracks and parking lots may be at elevations lower than the regulatory Flood
protection elevation. However, a permit for such facilities to be used by the
employees or the general public shall not be granted in the absence of a Flood
warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation if the area would be
inundated to a depth and velocity such that when multiplying the depth (in
feet) times velocity (in feet per second) the product number exceeds four upon
occurrence of the regional Flood.
      (2)   Manufacturing and industrial uses. Measures shall be taken to
minimize interference with normal plant operations, especially along streams
having protracted Flood durations. Certain accessory land uses such as yards
and parking lots may be at lower elevations subject to requirements set out in
division (E)(1) above. In considering permit applications, due consideration
shall be given to needs of an industry whose business requires that it be
located in Floodplain areas.
      (3)   Fill. Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes shall be
properly protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable
method. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria
for removing the special Flood hazard area designation for certain Structures
properly elevated on fill above the 100-year Flood elevation. FEMA's
requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-Structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of
special Flood hazard area designation will be requested.
      (4)   Hydraulic capacity. Floodplain developments shall not adversely
affect the hydraulic capacity of the channel and adjoining Floodplain of any
tributary watercourse or drainage system where a Floodway or other encroachment
limit has not been specified on the official zoning map.
      (5)   Recreational Vehicles. Standards for Recreational Vehicles are
contained in §
152.45(B).
      (6)   Manufactured Homes. All Manufactured Homes must be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system that resists flotation,
collapse and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to
be limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.43 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Review criteria. No land shall be subdivided which is unsuitable for
the reason of Flooding, inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment
facilities. All lots within the Floodplain districts shall be able to contain a
building site outside of the Floodway District at or above the regulatory Flood
protection elevation. All subdivisions shall have water and sewage treatment
facilities that comply with the provisions of this chapter and have road access
both to the subdivision and to the individual building sites no lower than two
feet below the regulatory Flood protection elevation. For all subdivisions in
the Floodplain, the Floodway and Flood Fringe District boundaries, the
regulatory Flood protection elevation and the required elevation of all access
roads shall be clearly labeled on all required subdivision drawings and
platting documents.
   (B)   Removal of Special Flood Hazard Area designation. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for removing the
special Flood hazard area designation for certain Structures properly elevated
on fill above the 100-year Flood elevation. FEMA's requirements incorporate
specific fill compaction and side slope protection standards for multi-
Structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should be investigated
prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of special Flood hazard
area designation will be requested.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.44 UTILITIES, RAILROADS, ROADS AND BRIDGES.
   (A)   Public utilities. All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, sewer and water supply systems to be located in the Floodplain
shall be Floodproofed in accordance with the State Building Code or elevated to
above the regulatory Flood protection elevation.
   (B)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads and bridges
to be located within the Floodplain shall comply with §§
152.41 and
152.42. Elevation to the regulatory Flood protection elevation shall be
provided where failure or interruption of these transportation facilities would
result in danger to the public health or safety or where such facilities are
essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or auxiliary roads or
railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where failure or interruption
of transportation services would not endanger the public health or safety.
   (C)   On-site sewage treatment systems. Where public utilities are not
provided, new or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of Flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into Flood waters and they shall not be subject to
impairment or contamination during times of Flooding. Any sewage treatment
system designed in accordance with the state's current statewide standards for
on-site sewage treatment systems shall be determined to be in compliance with
this section.
   (D)   On-site water supply systems.
      (1)   Where properties are not connected to public utilities, on-site
water supply systems must be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of
Flood waters into the systems.
      (2)   Where public utilities are provided, connections to the municipal
water system shall be required for failing systems within the time frame set
forth in the city's comprehensive plan.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.45 MANUFACTURED HOMES/TRAVEL TRAILERS AND TRAVEL VEHICLES.
   (A)   New Manufactured Home parks. Section
157.095 prohibits Manufactured Homes in the city outside of an approved
Manufactured Home park. Section
157.095 allows Manufactured Home park development only pursuant to a
Conditional Use permit, and pursuant to the performance standards set forth in
§
157.096. Accordingly, Manufactured Homes in the Floodway or Flood Fringe
District are prohibited.
   (B)   Recreational Vehicles. Recreational Vehicles that do not meet the
exemption criteria specified in division (B)(1) below shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter and as specifically spelled out in divisions (B)(3)
and (B)(4) below.
      (1)   Exemption. Recreational Vehicles are exempt from the provisions of
this chapter if they are placed in any of the areas listed in division (B)(2)
below and further they meet the following criteria:
         (a)   Have current licenses required for highway use;
         (b)   Are highway ready meaning on wheels or the internal jacking
system are attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
commonly used in campgrounds and Recreational Vehicle parks and the
Recreational Vehicle has no permanent structural type additions attached to it;
and
         (c)   The Recreational Vehicle and associated use must be permissible
in any pre-existing, underlying zoning use district.
      (2)   Areas exempted for placement of Recreational Vehicles.
         (a)   Individual lots or parcels of record;
         (b)   Existing commercial Recreational Vehicle parks or campgrounds;
and
         (c)   Existing condominium type associations.
      (3)   Loss of exemption. Recreational Vehicles exempted in division (B)
(1) above lose this exemption when development occurs on the parcel exceeding
$500 for a structural addition to the Recreational Vehicle or exceeding $500
for an accessory Structure such as a garage or storage building. The
Recreational Vehicle and all additions and accessory Structures will then be
treated as a new Structure and shall be subject to the elevation/Floodproofing
requirements and the use of land restrictions specified in §§
152.41 and
152.42 of this chapter. There shall be no development or improvement on the
parcel or attachment to the Recreational Vehicle that hinders the removal of
the Recreational Vehicle to a Flood free location should Flooding occur.
      (4)   New parks or expansion. New commercial Recreational Vehicle parks
or campgrounds and new residential type subdivisions and condominium
associations and the expansion of any existing similar use exceeding five units
or dwelling sites shall be subject to the following:
         (a)   Any new or replacement Recreational Vehicle will be allowed in
the Floodway or Flood Fringe Districts provided said Recreational Vehicle and
its contents are placed on fill above the regulatory Flood protection elevation
and proper elevated road access to the site exists in accordance with Section
5.51 of this chapter. No fill placed in the Floodway to meet the requirements
of this section shall increase Flood stages of the 100-year or regional Flood.
         (b)   All new or replacement Recreational Vehicles not meeting the
criteria of division (B)(4)(a) above may, as an alternative, be allowed as a
Conditional Use if in accordance with the following provisions and the
provisions of §
152.28.
            (1). The applicant must submit an emergency plan for the safe
evacuation of all vehicles and people during the 100-year Flood. Said plan
shall be prepared by a registered engineer or other qualified individual, shall
demonstrate that adequate time and personnel exist to carry out the evacuation,
and shall demonstrate the provisions of divisions (B)(1)(a) and (B)(1)(b) above
will be met.
            (2). All attendant sewage and water facilities for new or
replacement Recreational Vehicles must be protected or constructed so as to not
be impaired or contaminated during times of Flooding in accordance with §
152.44(C) and (D).
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of Variances or Conditional Uses) shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable in accordance with Minnesota
Statute 609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be amended from time to time; and the cost of
prosecution may be added pursuant to Minn. Stat. §631.48..
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. Such actions
may include but are not limited to:
      (1)   In responding to a suspected chapter violation, the Zoning
Administrator and local government may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to it including but not limited to prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a
request to the national Flood insurance program for denial of Flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The city must act in good faith to enforce
these official controls and to correct chapter violations to the extent
possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the national Flood
insurance program.
      (2)   When a violation is either discovered by or brought to the
attention of the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall
immediately investigate the situation and document the nature and extent of the
violation of the official control. As soon as is reasonably possible, this
information will be submitted to the appropriate Department of Natural
Resources and Federal Emergency Management Agency regional office along with
the city's plan of action to correct the violation to the degree possible.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this chapter and all other official controls and the nature and
extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If the Structure and/or
use is under construction or development, the Zoning Administrator may order
the construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted by the city. If the construction or development is already
completed, then the Zoning Administrator may either:
         (a)   Issue an order identifying the corrective actions that must be
made within a specified time period to bring the use or Structure into
compliance with the official controls; or
         (b)   Notify the responsible party to apply for an after-the-fact
permit/development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed 30
days.
      (4)   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
Zoning Administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day
that lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this chapter and shall
be prosecuted accordingly. The Zoning Administrator shall also upon the lapse
of the specified response period notify the landowner to restore the land to
the condition which existed prior to the violation of this chapter.
CHAPTER 153: LOWER ST. CROIX RIVER BLUFFLAND
AND SHORELAND MANAGEMENT
Section
   
153.01   Title
   
153.02   Intent and purpose
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   District provisions generally
   
153.05   Uses within the St. Croix Riverway
   
153.06   General conditional provisions
   
153.07   Subdivisions
   
153.08   Administration
   
153.09   Severability
   
153.10   Enforcement
§ 153.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the Lower St. Croix
River Bluffland and Shoreland Management Ordinance, except as referred to
herein, where it shall be known as "this chapter."
§ 153.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the purposes of:
   (A)   Designating suitable land use districts along the bluffland and
shoreland of the Lower St. Croix River;
   (B)   Regulating the area of a lot, and the length of bluffland and water
frontage suitable for building sites;
   (C)   Regulating the Setback of Structures and sanitary waste treatment
facilities from Blufflines to protect the existing and/or natural scenic
values, vegetation, soils, water and bedrock from disruption by human-made
Structures or facilities;
   (D)   Regulating the Setback of Structures and sanitary waste treatment
facilities from shorelines to protect the natural scenic value, floodplain and
water quality;
   (E)   Regulating alterations of the natural vegetation and topography; and
   (F)   Conserving and protecting the natural scenic values and resources of
the river valley and maintaining a high standard of environmental quality to
comply with State Department of Natural Resources Standards and Criteria for
the Lower St. Croix National Scenic Riverway (NR 2200-2202).
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Construction.
      (1)   In the event of conflicting provisions in the text of this chapter,
and/or other ordinances, the more restrictive provision shall apply. The Zoning
Administrator shall determine which is more restrictive and appeals from such
determination may be made in the manner provided herein.
      (2)   Words used in the present tense include the past and future tense;
the singular number includes the plural and the plural includes the singular;
the word SHALL is mandatory, the word MAY is permissive.
      (3)   Unless otherwise specified, all distances shall be measured
horizontally.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use subordinate to and serving the principal use on the
same lot and customarily incidental thereto, such as vegetative cutting and
grading and filling.
   APPURTENANCE. A Structure subordinate to and serving the principal Structure
on the same lot and customarily incidental thereto such as garages, decks,
essential services, signs, docks and stairways and lifts, except that
APPURTENANCE does not include private water supply and sewage and waste
disposal systems below the ground.
   BLUFFLINE. A line along the top of a Slope connecting the points at which
the Slope, proceeding away from the river or adjoining watershed Channel,
becomes less than 12% except that Bluffline does not include the tops of Slopes
not visible from the river assuming no vegetation cover or the tops of Slopes
associated with minor undulations or roadside ditches, provided that the
construction and presence of any proposed Structure near the tops of such
Slopes will not cause erosion and that the Structure will not be visible from
the river, The location of the BLUFFLINE for any particular property shall be
certified by a registered land surveyor or the Zoning Administrator. More than
one BLUFFLINE may be encountered proceeding away from the river or adjoining
watershed Channel. All Setbacks required herein shall be applicable to each
BLUFFLINE.
   BUILDING LINE. A line measured across the width of the lot at the point
where the principal Structure is placed in accordance with Setback provisions.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent with a
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct flowing water either continuously
or periodically.
   DWELLING UNIT. A residential accommodation which is arranged, designed, used
or intended for use exclusively as living quarters for one family.
   HARBOR. A portion of a body of water along or landward of the natural
shoreline deep enough for recreational watercraft navigation, and so situated
with respect to shoreline features as to provide protection from winds, waves,
ice and currents. Natural HARBORS consist of bays and estuaries, while
artificial HARBORS are constructed by dredging.
   MARINA. An area of concentrated small craft mooring, where ancillary
facilities may be provided for some or all of such services as fueling, sewage
pumpout, boat launching, boat repair and boat storage; except that MARINA does
not mean temporary docks associated with riparian residential development if
the mooring area is of a size not to exceed the resource limitations of the
site and the needs of the residents of the development.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any use of land established before the 1974 Lower St.
Croix National Scenic Riverway, which does not conform to the use restrictions
of a particular zoning district. This should not be confused with substandard
dimensions of a conforming use.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK. A mark at 675 feet elevation delineating the
highest water level which has been maintained for a sufficient period of time
to leave evidence upon the landscape.
   RIVERWAY BOUNDARY. A legally described line delineating the landward extent
of the St. Croix Riverway.
   SCENIC EASEMENT. An interest in land, less than fee title, that limits the
use of the land for the purpose of protecting the SCENIC, recreational and
natural characteristics of areas in the St. Croix Riverway. Unless otherwise
expressly and specifically provided by mutual agreement of the parties, the
EASEMENT shall be: perpetually held for the benefit of the people of the state;
specifically enforceable by its holder or any beneficiary; and binding on the
holder of the servient estate, their heirs, successors or assigns. Unless
specifically provided by the parties, no such EASEMENT shall give the holder or
any beneficiary the right to enter on the land except for enforcement of the
EASEMENT.
   SCREENING. The presence of vegetation or topography which makes any
Structure on any property Visually Inconspicuous in summer months as viewed
from the river.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between any part of a Structure and
the Ordinary High Water Mark or a Bluffline. In areas where the Ordinary High
Water Mark is not evident, SETBACKS shall be measured from the stream bank of
the following water bodies that have permanent flow or open water: the main
Channel, adjoining side Channels, backwaters and sloughs.
   SLOPE. All lands between the Ordinary High Water Mark and the Riverway
Boundary having an angle of ascent or descent of more than 12% from the
horizontal.
   ST. CROIX RIVERWAY. All lands and public waters within the Riverway Boundary
subject to the Standards and Criteria for the Lower St. Croix National Scenic
Riverway in the state.
   STRUCTURE. Any building or Appurtenance thereto, except transmission
services.
   SUBSTANDARD STRUCTURE. Any Structure established before the effective date
of this chapter which is permitted within a particular zoning district but does
not meet the Structure Setbacks or other dimensional standards of this chapter.
   VARIANCE. Any modification or variation of the dimensional standards of this
chapter where it is determined that, because of practical difficulties, strict
enforcement of this chapter is impractical.
   VISUALLY INCONSPICUOUS. Difficult to see or not readily noticeable in summer
months as viewed from the river.
   WATERCOURSE. A Channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently. The term applies to either natural or artificially
constructed Channels.
   WETLANDS. Land which is annually subject to periodic or continual inundation
by water and commonly referred to as a bog, swamp, marsh or slough.
§ 153.04 DISTRICT PROVISIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Designation of districts.
      (1)   For the purpose of protecting the natural resources and natural
scenic values of the land within the boundaries of the Lower St. Croix Riverway
and because there is a difference in development patterns, rural and urban
districts shall be established.
      (2)   The boundaries of the Lower St. Croix Riverway and the urban and
rural zoning districts within the riverway include all of the land riverward of
the legally described boundary line in the official copy of the Lower St. Croix
National Scenic Riverway Master Plan and as shown on the map designated as the
official zoning map.
      (3)   The boundaries of the Lower St. Croix Riverway zoning districts on
the map designated as the official zoning map published herewith is made a part
of this chapter and is on file with the Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   Lake St. Croix Beach is an urban district. M.S. § 103F.351..
   (B)   Minimum district dimensional requirements.
      (1)   The following chart sets forth the minimum area, Setbacks and other
requirements of each district:
 Urban District Urban District with Public Sewer and Water
                             Urban District          Urban District with Public
                                                     Sewer and Water
Building Setback from        40 feet                 40 feet
Bluffline
Building Setback from        100 feet                100 feet
Ordinary High Water Mark
Lot width at building        150 feet                100 feet
Setback line
Lot width at water line      150 feet                100 feet
Maximum Structure height     35 feet                 35 feet
Maximum total Lot Area
covered by impervious        20% (8,700 square feet) 20% (4,000 square feet)
surface
Minimum lot size above       1 acre                  20,000 square feet
Ordinary High Water Mark
On Slopes less than 12%, the
controlled vegetative                                
cutting areas Setback are
from:
Ordinary High Water Mark     100 feet                100 feet
Blufflines                   40 feet                 40 feet
On-site sewage treatment
system Setback from          40 feet                 -
Bluffline
On-site sewage treatment
system Setback from Ordinary 100 feet                -
High Water Mark
 
      (2)   No Structures shall be placed or grading done on any Slopes greater
than 12% (12 feet vertical rise in 100 feet horizontal distance).
      (3)   No Structures shall be placed in any floodway. Structures proposed
within a floodplain shall be consistent with city and state floodplain
ordinances.
      (4)   Exceptions to the minimum dimensional requirements include the
following:
         (b)   Developments which provide service to the public and which by
their nature require a location on or adjacent to the public waters and which
also require approval of the Commissioner of Natural Resources;
         (c)   Temporary or seasonal docks which extend into the water a
minimum distance necessary for the launching or mooring of watercraft;
         (d)   Signs which are necessary for public health and safety or which
designate areas available or not available for public use;
         (e)   Visually Inconspicuous stairways and lifts enabling access to
the river from steep Slopes; and
         (f)   On a vacant bluffland or shoreland lot which has two adjacent
lots, with principal dwelling Structures on both such adjacent lots within 200
feet of the common lot line, any new Structure shall be Setback the average
Setback of said adjacent Structures plus 40 feet or the minimum standard
Setback, whichever is less.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.05 USES WITHIN THE ST. CROIX RIVERWAY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of establishing standards and criteria for uses
in the St. Croix Riverway shall be to protect and preserve existing natural,
scenic and recreational values, to maintain proper relationships between
various land use types, and to prohibit new residential, commercial or
industrial uses that are inconsistent with the National Wild and Scenic Rivers
Act (being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1271 et seq.), and the Federal and State Lower St.
Croix River Acts (being Minn. Rules 6105.0300 - 6105.0440).
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All Structures associated with the following uses are permitted in
the St. Croix Riverway, subject to the dimensional requirements of a St. Croix
Riverway Ordinance:
         (a)   Conservancy;
         (b)   Agriculture; and
         (c)   Residential.
      (2)   Accessory Uses. Accessory Uses which are incidental to the
permitted primary uses of the property are permitted.
      (3)   Existing uses. In the urban districts of this model ordinance,
existing zoning districts in effect and uses permitted on March 1, 1990, by the
existing City of Lake St. Croix Beach Zoning Ordinance may again be permitted
by the City Council of the City of Lake St. Croix Beach, provided the project
is listed in 153.05 (D)(2) has been approved in writing by the Commissioner of
Natural Resources and meets or exceeds the following standards:
         (a)   The proposed use is consistent with and complimentary to the
existing, adjacent, urban land uses and municipal plans.
         (b)   The dimensional requirements of § 4 of said model ordinance.
         (c)   The sideyard Setbacks and frontage requirements of the local
zoning ordinance.
         (d)   A parking layout and site plan which provide on-site, off-street
parking spaces for all employees of the project, an exclusive area for loading
docks where required by local ordinance, and off-street customer parking spaces
as required by local ordinance.
         (e)   An on-site grading and surface water run-off plan for the site
which minimizes soil erosion and degradation of surface water quality.
         (f)   In sewered areas, public sewer will service the proposed
project.
         (g)   A landscaping plan for the site is illustrated which minimizes
the visual impact of the proposed project as viewed from the river and which
visually screens all parking areas from the river. The applicant shall provide
the community with a performance bond for the cost of all landscaping to ensure
compliance with the landscaping plan.
         (h)   A public hearing, as per Section
153.08, and forwarding of the final action of the local community to the
Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of the final action.
         (i)   The project meets all other existing local zoning and
subdivision requirements.
         (j)   The project requires no alteration of fill of shoreline,
bluffland, or floodway, except for temporary docking and launching of
watercraft.
         (k)   No lighted or flashing signs shall face riverward.
         (l)   Detailed plans and specifications as presented at the public
hearing are sufficient to obtain all local access, building, zoning, and sewer
permits.
   (C)   Site preservation. The following standards and criteria are provided
to preserve vegetative and topographical Screening, and to retard surface run-
off, soil erosion and nutrient loss.
      (1)   Vegetative cutting. On land within 100 feet of the Ordinary High
Water Mark in urban districts and 40 feet landward of bluff lines and on Slopes
greater than 12% in all districts, there shall be no vegetative cutting of live
trees or shrubs without a vegetative cutting permit from the Zoning
Administrator. A permit may be issued only if:
         (a)   The cutting, including topping, involves trees less than six
inches in diameter at a height of four and one-half (4 ½) feet above ground;
         (b)   The cutting, including topping, involves vegetation which is not
Screening any Structure from view from the river;
         (c)   The essential character, quality and density of existing growths
is preserved and continuous canopy cover is maintained;
         (d)   Diseased trees are to be removed, and their removal is in the
public interest; or
         (e)   The cutting is necessary for the maintenance of transportation
or utility rights-of-way.
      (2)   Permit not required. A vegetative cutting permit is not required
for the following provided the existing quality, character, density and canopy
is maintained as viewed from the river:
         (a)   Clearing for a validly permitted Structure, septic system,
roadway and parking areas; and
         (b)   Maintenance trimming or pruning on a particular parcel or in
transportation or utility rights-of-way.
      (3)   Grading and filling. Grading, filling, excavating or otherwise
changing the topography landward of the Ordinary High Water Mark shall not be
conducted without a grading permit from the Zoning Administrator. A grading
permit may be issued only if:
         (a)   Slopes greater than 12% (12 feet vertical rise in 100 horizontal
feet) are preserved to the greatest extent possible;
         (b)   Earthmoving, erosion, vegetative cutting, draining or filling of
Wetlands, and the destruction of natural amenities is minimized;
         (c)   The smallest amount of ground is exposed for as short a time as
feasible;
         (d)   During construction, temporary ground cover, such as mulch, is
used and permanent ground cover, such as sod, is planted upon completion;
         (e)   Methods to prevent erosion and trap sediment are employed; and
         (f)   Fill is stabilized to accepted engineering standards.
      (4)   When separate permit not required. A separate grading and filling
permit is not required for grading, filling or excavating the minimum area
necessary for a Structure, sewage disposal system and private road and parking
area undertaken pursuant to a validly issued building permit.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Description of conditional uses. Conditional uses are uses which
normally are not permitted in the urban or rural districts of the St. Croix
Riverway unless it is determined by the City Council, after a public hearing,
that the proposed use shall:
         (a)   Preserve the scenic and recreational resources of the St. Croix
Riverway, especially in regard to the view from and use of the river;
         (b)   Maintain safe and healthful conditions; and
         (c)   Limit erosion potential of the site based on degree and
direction of Slope, soil type and vegetative cover.
      (2)   Urban district conditional uses. In urban districts of this
chapter, existing zoning districts and uses permitted on May 1, 1974, by the
city may again be permitted, provided the use has been listed in this chapter
by the City Council and has been approved in writing by the Commissioner of
Natural Resources. The following urban district uses are considered conditional
uses:
         (a)   Marinas.
         (b)   Parks, beaches and related Structures.
      (3)   Rural district conditional uses. In the rural districts of this
chapter, the following uses may be permitted as conditional uses:
         (a)   Government resource management and interpretive activities;
         (b)   Marinas between the Boomsite Highway Wayside and the northern
boundary of Stillwater; and
         (c)   Governmental highway waysides, rest areas, information areas and
scenic overlooks.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. In all districts within the St. Croix Riverway, the
following new uses or expansion of existing uses shall be prohibited:
      (1)   Sand and gravel operations;
      (2)   Junk yards;
      (3)   Manufactured home parks;
      (4)   Downhill ski areas;
      (5)   Marinas upstream from the Boomsite Highway Wayside and downstream
from Stillwater in rural districts; and
      (6)   All uses not authorized in the local zoning ordinances.
   (F)   Non-Conforming Uses. Uses which are prohibited by this chapter but
which are in existence prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be
Non-Conforming Uses and may continue as lawful, Non-Conforming Uses. Such uses
shall not be intensified, enlarged or expanded beyond the permitted or
delineated boundaries of the use, activity or reclamation plan as stipulated in
the most current permit issued prior to the adoption of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.06 GENERAL CONDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Substandard Structures.
      (1)   All Structures in existence prior to the adoption date of this
chapter which do not meet the Structure Setbacks and other dimensional
standards of this chapter shall be considered substandard Structures.
      (2)   Any extension, enlargement or alteration of an existing substandard
Structure or sanitary facility shall meet the Setback standards of this
chapter.
      (3)   Exceptions to the Setback standards for substandard Structures may
include the following.
         (a)   An extension, enlargement or alteration of an existing
substandard Structure or sanitary facility may be permitted on the side of the
Structure or facility facing away from the river and/or Bluffline.
         (b)   An improvement to an existing Structure or facility may be
allowed to extend laterally (parallel to the river or bluff) when the
improvement is in compliance with the dimensional standards of this chapter and
the side yard standards of this chapter.
         (c)   Exterior decks attached to the Structure which do not extend any
roof or foundation may be permitted to extend laterally (parallel to the river
or Bluffline) at the same Setback as the substandard Structure if said deck is
Visually Inconspicuous in summer months as viewed from the river, and provided
the deck has no roof or building foundation.
         (d)   Substandard Structures which do not meet the bluffland and/or
shoreland Setbacks shall not be raised in elevation or roof line, except in
floodplain areas and then only to protect the Structure.
      (4)   If a substandard Structure needs replacing due to destruction,
deterioration or obsolescence, such replacement shall comply with the
dimensional standards of this chapter.
   (B)   Substandard lots.
      (1)   A lot or parcel of land for which a deed has been recorded in the
office of the County Recorder on or prior to May 1, 1974, shall be deemed a
Buildable lot provided it has frontage on a maintained public right-of-way,
maintained by the city or other unit of government, or frontage on a private
road established and of record in the office of the County Recorder prior to
May 1, 1974, and it can be demonstrated that a proper and adequate sewage
disposal system can be installed; a proposed Structure can meet the sideyard
Setbacks of the zoning ordinance and the pre-existing Lot Area dimensions meet
or exceed 60% of the requirements for a new lot in the same district.
      (2)   If in a group of contiguous platted lots under a single ownership,
any individual vacant lot does not meet the minimum requirements of this
chapter, such individual vacant lot cannot be considered as a separate parcel
of land for purposes of sale or development, but must be combined with adjacent
lots under the same ownership, so that the combination of lots will equal one
or more parcels of land each meeting the full minimum requirements of this
chapter.
   (C)   Sewage disposal.
      (1)   Any premises intended for human occupancy must be provided with an
adequate method of sewage disposal. Public or municipal collection and
treatment facilities must be used where available and where feasible. Where
public or municipal facilities are not available, all on-site individual sewer
disposal systems shall conform to the minimum standards as set forth in
Chapter 52 and §
153.04. A septic tank/drainfield system shall be the only acceptable system for
installation unless it can be demonstrated that this system is not feasible on
the particular lot in question and it can be demonstrated that the system being
proposed as an alternate will not cause a pollution problem.
      (2)   No person, firm or corporation shall install, alter, repair or
extend any individual sewer disposal system without first obtaining a permit
therefor from the Zoning Administrator for the specific installation,
alteration, repair or extension.
   (D)   Color of Structures. The exterior color of new or renovated
Structures, including roofs, shall be of earth or summer vegetation tones,
unless completely screened from the river.
   (E)   Marinas.
      (1)   New and/or expanded Marinas may only be allowed:
         (a)   Between the Boomsite Highway Wayside and the City of Stillwater;
and
         (b)   Downstream from the northern city limits of Stillwater in urban
districts.
      (2)   New Marinas shall meet the design standards of Natural Resources
Regulations including NR 2201(f (2)).
      (3)   No construction or development associated with a Marina shall begin
until all of the following authorizations have been obtained by the applicant.
         (a)   Marinas shall be a conditional use in this chapter.
         (b)   For uses and Structures above the Ordinary High Water Mark
associated with a Marina, a public hearing shall be held by the City Council to
consider a Marina as a conditional use in accordance with Department of Natural
Resources Regulations including NR 2202(d (2)). The City Council may approve or
deny the Marina on said standards of the Department of Natural Resources. If
the City Council approves the Marina, final issuance of the local permit shall
be conditioned upon granting of all state and federal permits required in
Department of Natural Resources Regulations including NR 2201(f).
   (F)   Alterations in public waters. Changing the course, current or cross
section of public waters shall require state and federal permits as specified
in (g) of NR 2201 before any local permits may be issued.
   (G)   Transmission services. A permit from the Commissioner of Natural
Resources is required pursuant to M.S. §§ 84.415 or 103G.127, as they may be
amended from time to time, before transmission services may cross state-owned
lands or public waters and shall be in accordance with the Natural Resources
Regulations including NR 2201(h).
   (H)   Public roads. A permit from the Commissioner of Natural Resources is
required before construction, reconstruction, removal or abandonment of any
road or railroad crossing of public waters within the Riverway. Said permit
shall be in accordance with the Natural Resources Regulations including NR 2201
(I).
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.07 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Land suitability. No land shall be subdivided which is found by the
City Council to be unsuitable for reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, soil
and rock formations with severe limitations for development, severe erosion
potential, unfavorable topography. Inadequate water supply or sewer disposal
capabilities or any other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety or
welfare of the future residents of the proposed subdivision or the city. The
City Council, in applying the provisions of this section, shall in writing cite
the particular features upon which it bases its conclusions that the land is
not suitable for the proposed use and afford the subdivider an opportunity to
present evidence regarding such suitability at a public hearing. Thereafter the
City Council may affirm, modify or withdraw its determination of unsuitability.
   (B)   Preliminary plans.
      (1)   Preliminary plans for all plats, including planned cluster
developments shall be approved by the Commissioner of Natural Resources or
their agent in writing prior to preliminary approval by the City Council.
      (2)   All subdivisions shall comply with the applicable provisions of
Chapter 156.
   (C)   Planned cluster developments.
      (1)   A pattern of subdivision development which places Dwelling Units
into compact groupings may be allowed when the proposed clustering provides a
better means of preserving agricultural land, open space, woods, scenic views,
Wetlands and other features of the natural environment than traditional
subdivision development.
      (2)   Except for minimum Setbacks and height limits, altered dimensional
standards may be allowed as exceptions to this chapter for planned cluster
developments, provided:
         (a)   In rural districts of this chapter the number of Dwelling Units
allowed shall not exceed the total number of Dwelling Units allowed if the
development was based on the minimum lot size requirements for a single-family
residential subdivision;
         (b)   In urban districts of this chapter and only where public sewer
and water will be installed in the proposed cluster development, the number of
Dwelling Units shall not exceed 50% more than the total number of Dwelling
Units allowed if the development was based on the minimum lot size requirements
for single-family residential subdivision;
         (c)   Open space shall be preserved. At least 50% of the length of
shoreland or bluffland frontage as viewed from the river shall be kept in its
natural state.
         (d)   Temporary docks, if allowed, shall be centralized and of a size
not to exceed the needs of the residents of the development.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Administrative procedure.
      (1)   In addition to the applicable administrative procedures set forth
in the zoning ordinance, the following procedures shall be implemented with
respect to land, subject to this chapter.
         (a)   A public hearing shall be held by the local authority for all
zoning district amendments, conditional use permits, subdivision and Variances.
         (b)   No less than 20 days prior to the public hearing, the Zoning
Administrator shall send notice and copies of the applicant's information as
specified in division (C) below to the following agencies for review and
comment:
            1. Department of Natural Resources;
            2. City Planning Commission;
            3. Middle St. Croix WMO and Watershed District;
            4. Valley Branch Watershed District.
      (2)   The applicant for any permit requiring a public hearing shall
submit to the City Council at least 30 days prior to such hearing, an
abstractors certificate showing the names and addresses of all property owners
within 500 feet of the affected incorporated areas, or one-half mile in
unincorporated areas, the affected Board of Town Supervisors, and the Municipal
Council of any municipality within two miles of the affected property.
      (3)   Notice of the purpose, time and place of any such public hearing
shall be mailed to all property owners and the elected officials listed in
division (A)(2) above by the local authority at least ten days prior to the
date of the hearing.
      (4)   Notice of the purpose, time and place of any such public hearing
shall be published in the official newspaper of the affected communities at
least ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
   (B)   Forwarding of a final decision. The City Council shall forward
decisions within ten days of final action on all conditional use permits and
subdivisions to the Commissioner of Natural Resources.
   (C)   Permit process.
St. Croix Riverway Ordinance Permits Urban District
St. Croix Riverway Ordinance Permits Urban District
Amendments to district boundary      PH - CC         
Amendments to ordinance              PH - CC         
Building permits                     LP              
Conditional use permits              PH - FD         
Grading permits                      LP              
Plats and cluster developments       PH - WA - FD    
Septic permits                       LP              
Tree cutting permits                 LP              
Variances                            PH - CC         
CC - Certification by the Commissioner of Natural Resources prior to final
local approval.
- Local authority forwards any decisions to the Commissioner of Natural
Resources within ten days after taking final action
LP - Permit issued by the local authority in accordance with this chapter and
all other local permits.
PH - Public hearing necessary by the local authority giving 20 days notice of
meeting to the Commissioner of Natural Resources and other agencies listed in
division (A)(1)(b) above.
WA - The Commissioner of Natural Resources shall submit, after notice of
public hearing and before the local authority gives preliminary approval, a
written review and approval of the project.
 
   (D)   Variances.
      (1)   Variances shall only be granted where there are practical
difficulties in complying with the official control. PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES, as
used in connection with the granting of a Variance, means that the property
owner proposes to use the property in a reasonable manner not permitted by an
official control; the plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to
the property not created by the landowner; and the Variance, if granted, will
not alter the essential character of the locality. Economic considerations
alone do not constitute PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES. PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES include,
but are not limited to, inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy
systems. Variances shall be granted for earth sheltered construction as defined
in M.S. § 216C.06, subdivision 15, when in harmony with the ordinance. No
Variance may be granted that would allow any use that is not allowed in the
zoning district in which the subject property is located. The Variance, if
granted, must be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of the
ordinance and consistent with the comprehensive plan. Conditions may be imposed
in the granting of a Variance. A condition must be directly related to and must
bear a rough proportionality to the impact crated by the Variance.
      (2)   The formal public hearing for a Variance shall be held by the City
Council as set forth in the zoning ordinance.
   (E)   Requirements of the applicant for a public hearing. The applicant
shall submit sufficient copies of the following information and additional
information as requested to the local authority 30 days prior to the public
hearing on the application for a conditional use, Variance or subdivision:
      (1)   Plat of survey showing the property location, boundaries,
dimensions, elevations, Blufflines, utility and roadway corridors, the Ordinary
High Water Mark, floodway and floodplain;
      (2)   The most recent aerial photo of the property with property lines
drawn in;
      (3)   Location of existing and proposed Structures including height and
Setback dimensions;
      (4)   Location of existing and proposed alterations of vegetation and
topography;
      (5)   Stormwater management and erosion control plans and supporting
calculations as may be required by this and other city regulations;
      (6)   Adjoining water-oriented uses;
      (7)   Suitability of the area for on-site waste disposal. Type, size and
location of the system shall be indicated. If a public or municipal wastewater
collection and treatment system is to be utilized, the applicant must submit a
written agreement from the municipality or sanitary authority indicating that
the system has the capacity to handle the development;
      (8)   Water supply system; and
      (9)   An estimate of permanent and transient residents.
   (F)   Factors to be considered. When considering a proposal or zoning
amendment within the St. Croix River District, the City Council shall address
the following items in making its decisions:
      (1)   Preserving the scenic and recreational resources of the St. Croix
Riverway, especially in regard to the view from and use of the river;
      (2)   The maintenance of safe and healthful conditions;
      (3)   The prevention and control of water pollution, including
sedimentation;
      (4)   The location of the site with respect to floodways, floodplains,
Slopes and Blufflines.
      (5)   The erosion potential of the site based on degree and direction of
Slope, soil type and vegetative cover;
      (6)   Potential impact on game and fish habitat;
      (7)   Location of the site with respect to existing or future access
roads;
      (8)   The amount of wastes to be generated and the adequacy of the
proposed disposal systems;
      (9)   The anticipated demand for police, fire, medical and school
services and facilities; and
      (10)   The compatibility of the proposed development with uses on
adjacent land.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.09 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention that the several provisions of
this chapter are separable in accordance with the following.
   (A)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provisions
of this chapter not specifically included in said judgment.
   (B)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any portion of this chapter to a particular property, building
or other Structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of said
provision to any other property, building or Structure not specifically
included in said judgment.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter repeals or amends any ordinance
requiring a permit or license to engage in any business or occupation.
§ 153.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It is declared unlawful for any person to violate any of the terms and
provisions of this chapter. Violation thereof shall be a misdemeanor. Each day
that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. In
the event of a violation or a threatened violation of this chapter, the City
Council or the Commissioner of Natural Resources, in addition to other
remedies, may institute appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate such violations or threatened violations and it is
the duty of the City Attorney to institute such action.
   (B)   All misdemeanor violations shall be punishable in accordance with
Minnesota Statute 609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be amended from time to time; and
the cost of prosecution may be added pursuant to Minn. Stat. §631.48.
CHAPTER 154: RESTRICTIVE SOILS
Section
   
154.01   Legislative findings and purposes
   
154.02   District boundaries
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Restrictive soils development permit provision
   
154.05   Responsibility; effect
§ 154.01 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
   (A)   The city finds that certain areas within the city are characterized by
certain soil types, slopes and water levels which, without proper corrective
action, are unsuitable for development of any type; inappropriate development
in these areas increases the amount of soil materials entering groundwater,
encourages pollution, destroys ecological and natural resources and requires
expenditures of public funds to correct deficiencies; thereby acting to the
detriment of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city.
   (B)   Therefore, the purposes of this chapter are to provide for the
regulation of development on restrictive soils in such a way as to minimize the
risk of environmental damage and to protect private homeowners and governmental
units from incurring high maintenance and capital costs resulting from the
necessity of correcting deficiencies encountered as a result of development on
poorly suited soils.
§ 154.02 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
This chapter shall apply to areas within the city which are delineated on the
official soils maps of the county as contained in the county soil survey, and
have soil types set forth in Table I below. For purposes of determining the
application of this chapter to any particular parcel of land, the above-
referenced map shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk-Administrator,
and shall be available for inspection and copying.
Table I
Soil Loss Limits "T" for Soils in the County
Table I
Soil Loss Limits "T" for Soils in the County
Map Symbol Soil Name                                          "T" tons/ac/year
Map Symbol Soil Name                                          "T" tons/ac/year
2B         Ostrander silt loam, 2-6% slopes                   5
2C         Ostrander silt loam, 6-12% slopes                  5
7B         Hubbard loamy sand, 1-6% slopes                    5
7C         Hubbard loamy sand, 6-12% slopes                   5
7D         Hubbard loamy sand, 12-18% slopes                  5
8B         Sparta loamy sand, 2-6% slopes                     5
8C         Sparta loamy sand, 6-15% slopes                    5
12C        Emmert loamy coarse sand, 3-15% slopes             2
12D        Emmert gravelly loamy coarse sand, 12-25% slopes   2
49B        Antigo silt loam, 2-6% slopes                      4
49C        Antigo silt loam, 6-12% slopes                     4
49D        Antigo silt loam, 12-18% slopes                    4
100B       Copaston loam, 0-6% slopes                         2
100C       Copaston loam, 6-12% slopes                        2
132B       Hayden fine sandy loam, 2-6%                       5
132C       Hayden fine sandy loam, 6-12%                      5
132D       Hayden fine sandy loam, 12-25%                     5
151B       Burkhardt sandy loam, 3-9% slopes                  3
153B       Santiago silt loam, 2-6% slopes                    5
153C       Santiago silt loam, 6-15% slopes                   5
155B       Chetek sandy loam, 0-6% slopes                     3
155C       Chetek sandy loam, 6-12% slopes                    3
155D       Chetek sandy loam, 12-25% slopes                   3
158B       Zimmerman loamy fine sand, 0-6% slopes             5
158C       Zimmerman loamy fine sand, 6-12% slopes            5
158D       Zimmerman loamy fine sand, 12-25% slopes           5
159B       Anoka loamy fine sand, 3-9% slopes                 5
169B       Brahan loamy fine sand, 1-6% slopes                5
169C       Brahan loamy fine sand, 6-15% slopes               5
174C       Gale silt loam, 6-15% slopes                       4
174D       Gale silt loam, 25-50% slopes                      4
177B       Gotham loamy sand, 1-6% slopes                     5
177C       Gotham loamy sand, 6-12% slopes                    5
177D       Gotham loamy sand, 12-20% slopes                   5
259B       Grays silt loam, 2-6% slopes                       5
298B       Richwood silt loam, 2-6% slopes                    5
301B       Lindstrom silt loam, 2-4% slopes                   5
302B       Rosholt sandy loam, 1-6% slopes                    3
302C       Rosholt sandy loam, 6-15% slopes                   3
327B       Dickman sandy loam, 2-6% slopes                    3
327C       Dickman sandy loam, 6-12% slopes                   3
340B       Whalan silt loam, 1-6% slopes                      4
340C       Whalan silt loam, 6-12% slopes                     4
342B       Kingsley sandy loam, 2-6% slopes                   5
342C       Kingsley sandy loam, 6-12% slopes                  5
342D       Kingsley sandy loam, 12-18% slopes                 5
342E       Kingsley sandy loam, 18-30% slopes                 5
367B       Campia silt loam, 0-8% slopes                      5
411B       Waukegan silt loam, 2-6% slopes                    4
411C       Waukegan silt loam, 6-12% slopes                   4
453B       Demontreville loamy fine sand, 2-6%                5
453C       Demontreville loamy fine sand, 6-12%               5
453D       Demontreville loamy fine sand, 12-25%              5
454B       Mahtomedi loamy sand, 0-6% slopes                  5
454C       Mahtomedi loamy sand, 6-12% slopes                 5
454D       Mahtomedi loamy sand, 12-25% slopes                5
454F       Mahtomedi loamy sand, 25-40% slopes                5
460B       Baytown silt loam, 1-6% slopes                     4
460C       Baytown silt loam, 6-12% slopes                    4
472B       Channahon silt loam, 1-6% slopes                   2-1
472C       Channahon silt loam, 6-12% slopes                  2-1
472D       Channahon silt loam, 12-18% slopes                 2-1
488F       Brodale flaggy loam, 20-50% slopes                 2
504B       Duluth silt loam, 1-6% slopes                      5
504C       Duluth silt loam, 6-12% slopes                     5
504D       Duluth silt loam, 12-25% slopes                    5
529B       Ripon silt loam, 2-6% slopes                       4
529C       Ripon silt loam, 6-12% slopes                      4
852B       UL-Copaston complex, 0-8% slopes                   2
857C       UL-Waukegan complex, 3-15% slopes                  4
858C       UL-Chetek complex, 3-15% slopes                    3
859B       UL-Zimmerman complex                               5
860C       UL-Hayden Kingsley complex, 3-15%                  5
860D       UL-Hayden Kingsley complex, 15-25%                 5
861C       UL-Kingsley complex, 3-15% slopes                  5
861D       UL-Kingsley complex, 15-25% slopes                 5
896C       Mahtomedi-Kingsley complex, 3-12%                  5
896D       Mahtomedi-Kingsley complex, 12-25%                 5
896F       Mahtomedi-Kingsley complex, 25-40%                 5
1813B      Lino Variant loamy fine sand, 2-6%                 5
1819F      Dorerton-Rock outcrop complex, 25-65%              2
1820F      Mahtomedi Variant-Rock outcrop complex, 25-60%     5
           slopes
1827B      Waukegan Variant silt loam, 2-9% slopes            3
1848B      Sparta loamy sand, bedrock substratum, 0-6% slopes 5
 
 § 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. An individual or firm, corporation, partnership, association or
other private body or governmental entity.
   STRUCTURE. Any building which may provide shelter for any Person, animal or
item of property.
§ 154.04 RESTRICTIVE SOILS DEVELOPMENT PERMIT PROVISION.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as hereinafter provided in this chapter, no
Person shall erect any Structure within restrictive soils areas without having
first obtained a written permit from the Building Inspector authorizing the
same.
   (B)   Exceptions. The permit requirements established by this chapter shall
not apply to:
      (1)   Any public agency or its contractor or any Person performing work
within a right-of-way of any public agency pursuant to a permit issued by such
public agency;
      (2)   Emergency work necessary to preserve life or property. When
emergency work is performed under this section, the Person performing it shall
report the pertinent facts relating to the work to the Building Inspector prior
to the commencement of the work. The Building Inspector shall review the facts
and determine whether any emergency exists and shall, by written memorandum,
authorize the commencement of the emergency exception. The Person commencing
emergency work shall, within ten days following the commencement of that
activity, apply for the issuance of a restrictive soils development permit and
on the issuance thereof may be required to perform such work as is determined
to be reasonably necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter; or
      (3)   Development consisting of the corrective alteration, repair or
maintenance of any lost full use of land existing on the date of adoption of
this chapter.
   (C)   Application for and processing of permit. A separate application for a
permit shall be made to the Building Inspector for each development for which a
permit is required except that only one application need be made for two or
more such acts which are to be done on the same parcel. The application shall
include a map of the site and a delineation of the soils found in the site
along with a plan and cost estimate of the proposed development and such other
engineering data, surveys and other information and material as may be required
in order to determine the effects of such development on the affected land and
the suitability of the soils for said development. When proposed work includes
construction or alterations of Structures, such work shall be submitted with
the application, along with detailed drawings of any special foundation
Structures and/or special provisions for on-site sewage disposal.
   (D)   Issuance of permit. The following standards shall govern the issuance
of permits for development:
      (1)   General Standards. Development on restrictive soils shall not be
permitted until an investigation and subsequent report has been completed and
presented to the Building Inspector by a professional engineer or soil
scientist experienced and knowledgeable in the practice of soils and soils
mechanics, and until the recommendations thereof have been incorporated into
the design plan and specification. No permit shall be issued for development on
soils deemed by the chapter to be unsuitable.
      (2)   Restrictive soils. Set forth in § 154.02 and labeled Table I is a
grouping of restrictive soils from the soil survey of the county which are
hereby incorporated and made a part of this chapter. The soil symbols set forth
in Table I are highly restrictive for residential, commercial, industrial or
other development due to high water table (three feet or less), steep slope
conditions (18% slopes or greater), high shrink swell potential, high frost
action potential, or shallow bedrock. No development permit shall be issued
unless it has first been demonstrated by the developer that buildings shall be
constructed in accordance with the standards found in the State Building Code
for appropriate soil conditions, and that a soil absorption disposal system can
satisfactorily function in accordance with municipal regulations. Said
standards are hereby incorporated by reference into this chapter.
   (E)   Conditions. A special permit may be approved subject to compliance
with conditions reasonable and necessary to ensure compliance with the
requirements contained in this chapter which are specifically set forth in the
permits. Such conditions may, among other matters, limit the size, character of
the proposed development, require the construction of other Structures,
including special foundations and soil stabilization Structures, establish
required monitoring procedures, require such alterations of the site as may be
necessary and/or require the conveyance to the city or other public entity of
certain lands or interests therein.
   (F)   Time of permit - extensions, reviews.
      (1)   A permittee shall begin the work authorized by the permit within 60
days from the date of issuance of the permit unless a different date for the
commencement of work is set forth in the permit. The permittee shall complete
the work authorized by the permit which in no event shall exceed more than 12
months from the date of issuance. The permittee shall notify the Building
Inspector at least 24 hours prior to the commencement of work. Should the work
not be commenced as specified herein, then the permit shall become void;
provided, however, that if prior to the date established for commencement of
work, the permittee makes written request to the Building Inspector for an
extension of time to commence the work, setting forth the reasons for the
require extension the Building Inspector may grant such extension. A permit
which has become void may be renewed at the discretion of the Building
Inspector upon payment of a renewal fee. Permit for such work may be granted
only upon compliance with the procedures herein established for any original
application.
      (2)   The permittee shall notify the Building Inspector in writing of the
termination of the work authorized and no work shall be deemed to have been
completed until approved in writing by the Building Inspector following such
written notification.
      (3)   The Building Inspector may cause inspections of the work to be made
periodically during the course thereof by themself or a member of the Building
Inspector staff and shall cause a final inspection to be made following the
completion of the work.
   (G)   Variances and appeals. Variance and appeals for this chapter shall be
administered pursuant to §
157.021(B).
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.05 RESPONSIBILITY; EFFECT.
   The issuance of a permit and/or compliance with the conditions thereof, nor
with the terms therewith shall not relieve any Person from any responsibility
otherwise imposed by law for damage to Persons or property; nor shall the
issuance of any permit hereunder serve to impose any liability on the city or
its officers or agents.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 155: SOIL EROSION
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Scope
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Excessive Soil Loss prohibited
   
155.05   Agricultural activity
   
155.06   Development Activity
   
155.07   Exemptions
   
155.08   Provisions are cumulative
   
155.09   Incorporation of rules and documents
Soil Erosion Control for Agricultural Use
   
155.20   Complaint
   
155.21   District determination of Soil loss
   
155.22   Report
   
155.23   Notice of Excessive Soil Loss
   
155.24   Appointment of mediator
   
155.25   Settlement
   
155.26   Filing of settlement
   
155.27   Cost-share funds
   
155.28   Forwarding complaint to County Attorney
   
155.29   District court hearing
   
155.30   District assistance
   
155.31   Cost-share application
Soil Erosion Control for Development Activities
   
155.45   Sedimentation Control Plan for development activities
   
155.46   Minimum planning standards
   
155.47   Location violation
   
155.48   Review
   
155.49   Permit required
   
155.50   Establishment of cost-share funds
   
155.51   Variance
   
155.52   More restrictive standard controls
 
   
155.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to encourage and guide the use of land in
accordance with its capabilities to prevent the degradation of lands, streams
and rivers and to protect and promote the health, safety and general welfare of
the people of the City.
§ 155.02 SCOPE.
   This chapter and Soil Loss Limits specified within this chapter apply to all
incorporated land within the City, including, but not limited to, agricultural
land, woodland, pasture land, open space and land subject to Development
Activity.
§ 155.03 DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. Use of land for the production of livestock, dairy
animals, dairy products, poultry or poultry products, fur-bearing animals,
horticultural or nursery stock including sod, fruit, vegetables, forage and
cash grains, forestry or bees and apiary products. Wetlands, pasture and
woodlands accompanying land in AGRICULTURAL USE are also in AGRICULTURAL USE.
   CONSERVATION PLAN AND TIME SCHEDULE. CONSERVATION PLAN means a document
listing a set of practices that when implemented will decrease Soil Erosion to
the Soil Loss Limits on a particular parcel of land. The TIME SCHEDULE sets
times to implement, make satisfactory progress and complete the CONSERVATION
PLAN.
   CONSERVATION PRACTICES. Practices and standards containing a definition,
purpose and conditions under which the practice applies, including design
requirements and specifications containing a statement of details required for
installing a conservation practice, including kinds, quality and quantity of
work and materials needed to meet the standards.
      (1)   A CONSERVATION PRACTICE may be permanent or temporary, a vegetative
or structural measure that when applied to the land will contribute to the
control of wind and water Erosion and Sedimentation. CONSERVATION PRACTICES may
be used in a Development Activity area or an Agricultural Use area.
      (2)   Permanent practices are those that have an effective life of ten
years or more and include grassed waterways, terraces, field windbreaks, water
control structures, grade stabilization structures, Sediment retention
structures, stripcropping, water and Sediment control basins, and other
permanent practices approved by the State Board of Water and Soil Resources.
      (3)   Temporary practices include conservation tillage, contour farming,
grasses and legumes in rotation, emergency tillage, fabric filter barriers,
filter strips, stormwater inlet and outlet protection and any other cultural
practices approved by the State Board of Water and Soil Resources.
      (4)   The Field Office Technical Guide or other recognized technical
procedures shall be used to design, install and certify practices.
   CITY. The elected City Council, or its designated officials or agents.
Agents may include Districts, water management organizations, joint powers
boards, watershed Districts or other governmental entities responsible for
resource management within the CITY. After adopting a Soil loss ordinance, the
CITY may enter into an agreement with its agent allowing the agent to
administer the functions and perform the duties of the CITY set out in §§
155.20,
155.21,
155.23,
155.28,
155.29,
155.45 and
155.99.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. A physical disturbance, excluding Agricultural Use, of
the land associated with activities that may result in Sedimentation of
adjacent lands or waters. These activities include, but are not limited to,
clearing, grading, excavating, transporting, draining and filling lands.
Federal, state, county and municipal road construction designed and installed
according to Department of Transportation standard specifications for
construction are not DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES.
   DISTRICT. A Soil and water conservation District organized under M.S.
Chapter 103C, as it may be amended from time to time.
   EROSION. Any process that wears away the surface of the land by the action
of water, wind, ice or gravity. EROSION can be accelerated by the activities of
humans and nature.
   EXCESSIVE SOIL LOSS. Soil loss that is greater than the SOIL LOSS LIMITS set
out below in this section, or which causes Sedimentation or adjoining land or
in a body of water, watercourse or wetland.
   FIELD OFFICE TECHNICAL GUIDE. The guide developed by the United States
Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service and adopted by the
District. The TECHNICAL GUIDE contains methods and procedures by which the
various types of Erosion can be estimated and conservation practice standards
and specifications required in the application of Soil and water Conservation
Practices.
   LAND OCCUPIER. A person, firm, corporation, municipality or other legal
entity that holds title to or is in possession of any land as owner, lessee,
renter, tenant or otherwise. The term includes both the owner and the occupier
of the land if they are not the same.
   SEDIMENT. Solid mineral or organic material, that, in suspension, is being
transported, or has been moved from its original site by air, water, gravity or
ice, and has been deposited at another location.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process or action of depositing Sediment that, upon
inspection, is determined to have been caused by Erosion.
   SEDIMENTATION CONTROL PLAN; TIME SCHEDULE. A document listing a set of
practices that, when implemented, will decrease Sedimentation to the allowable
level on a particular parcel of land. A TIME SCHEDULE must set times to
implement, make satisfactory progress on and complete the SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
PLAN.
   SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the immediate
surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for growth of land plants.
   SOIL LOSS LIMIT. The maximum amount of Soil loss from water or wind Erosion,
expressed in tons per acre per year, allowed on a particular Soil. The Soil
Loss Limits for Soils found in the City are the Soil Loss Tolerances for each
Soil series as described in the Field Office Technical Guide. The United States
Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service has prepared a Soil survey
for the county that sets out the Soil Loss Tolerances, according to the Field
Office Technical Guide, for each Soil series found in the county. The official
county Soil survey is adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter. The official county Soil survey shall be on file in the offices of the
County Auditor and Zoning Administrator. The SOIL LOSS LIMIT for each Soil
series found in the City is set forth on Attachment A annexed hereto and
incorporated by reference herein. Any other Soil found in the City and not
listed herein has maximum Soil Loss Tolerance of five tons per acre per year.
   SOIL LOSS TOLERANCE. The maximum level of Soil Erosion that will permit a
high level crop productivity to be sustained economically and indefinitely.
§ 155.04 EXCESSIVE SOIL LOSS PROHIBITED.
   A person may not cause, conduct for or authorize an activity that causes
Excessive Soil Loss.
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.05 AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY.
   A Land Occupier shall:
   (A)   If engaged in an Agricultural Use, prevent Excessive Soil Loss and
ensure that proper management and Conservation Practices are being applied to
the land;
   (B)   If using wooded or open land for pasture, ensure that proper
management is used to prevent Excessive Soil Loss due to overgrazing or cattle
paths;
   (C)   If using wooded land for timber harvest, ensure that proper management
is used to prevent Excessive Soil Loss; and
   (D)   If a body of water, watercourse or wetland is located within an
Agricultural Use area, wooded or open land used for pasture, or a wooded area
used for timber harvest, ensure that proper management and Conservation
Practices are being applied to the surrounding land.
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.06 DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY.
   A person engaged in a Development Activity that will disturb land shall
submit a Sedimentation Control Plan and Time Schedule that will prevent
Excessive Soil Loss or Sediment from damaging adjacent land, bodies of water,
watercourses or wetlands, to the local government or its agent for approval.
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   An occupier of agricultural land is not violating §
155.04 if the District report, as developed through §
155.22, shows that existing farming practices and methods are being effectively
applied to control Soil loss.
   (A)   A Land Occupier engaged in federal, state, county, municipal or
township road construction and maintenance is not violating §
155.04 if the road construction and maintenance is designed and installed
according to Department of Transportation standard specifications for
construction and maintenance.
   (B)   A Land Occupier engaged in a Development Activity shall not be
required to develop a Sediment control plan and shall not be considered in
violation of §
155.06 when involved in one of the following activities:
      (1)   Minor land disturbance activities such as home gardens and
individual home landscaping, repairs and maintenance work;
      (2)   Construction, installation, maintenance of electric, telephone and
utility lines or individual service connection to utility lines;
      (3)   Septic tank lines or drainage fields unless included in an overall
plan for a land Development Activity relating to construction of a building to
be served by the septic tank system;
      (4)   Preparation for single-family residences separately built, unless
in conjunction with multiple construction in subdivision development;
      (5)   Disturbance of land areas less than 10,000 square feet for
commercial or noncommercial uses, except that the governing body of the local
unit of government may reduce this exception to a smaller area of disturbed
land or quality the conditions under which this exception applies;
      (6)   Installation of fence, sign, telephone and electric poles and other
kinds of posts or poles; and
      (7)   Emergency work or repairs to protect life, limb or property.
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.08 PROVISIONS ARE CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this chapter are cumulative to all other laws, ordinances
and regulations heretofore passed, or which may be passed hereafter, covering
any subject matter in this chapter.
§ 155.09 INCORPORATION OF RULES AND DOCUMENTS.
   Minn. Rules, parts 8400.4000 to 8400.4075 are incorporated by reference into
this chapter. The priority cost-share assistance contract is incorporated by
reference into this chapter.
SOIL EROSION CONTROL FOR AGRICULTURAL USE
§ 155.20 COMPLAINT.
   An adversely affected Land Occupier, and elected or appointed official of
the City or a District board member may submit a signed, written complaint to
the City if conditions exist that indicate there is Excessive Soil Loss from a
tract of land.
   (A)   Elements of complaint. The signed, written complaint shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the allegedly offending Land Occupier;
      (2)   The location of the tract of land with the alleged Excessive Soil
Loss;
      (3)   Other land or water that is allegedly being affected by the
Excessive Soil Loss; and
      (4)   A description of the nature of the alleged Excessive Soil Loss and
resulting Sedimentation.
   (B)   Complaint to District. The City shall submit the complaint to the
District for Soil loss determination. The local government shall notify the
alleged offending Land Occupier of the complaint and that the District will be
contacting the Land Occupier to review the site, determine the severity of the
problem, and assist the Land Occupier in correcting the problem. The local
government shall also name a contact person for further assistance.
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.21 DISTRICT DETERMINATION OF SOIL LOSS.
   (A)   The District shall determine the average annual Soil loss in tons per
acre per year for the tract of land cited in the complaint.
   (B)   The District may enter public or private land to make an inspection to
determine Soil loss or to complete the report. The Land Occupier shall be
notified of the time of the inspections and be given an opportunity to be
present when the inspection is made.
      (1)   The Land Occupier shall be notified of the time of inspection ten
days prior to the date of the inspection.
      (2)   The notice shall be delivered either by personal service or by
certified mail.
      (3)   If the owner of the property and the occupier of the residence
differ, both shall receive notification under the procedure stated above.
§ 155.22 REPORT.
   The District shall submit a report to the City that states the average Soil
loss in tons per acre per year for each tract of land and whether that Soil
loss is excessive under the applicable Soil Loss Limits.
   (A)   If the Soil loss is excessive, the report shall include identification
of existing farming practices and a preliminary Conservation Plan And Time
Schedule that will prevent Excessive Soil Loss.
   (B)   If the District report shows that Soil loss form the tract of land is
equal to or below the Soil Loss Tolerance for that Soil series, the City may
dismiss the complaint and notify the Land Occupier.
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.23 NOTICE OF EXCESSIVE SOIL LOSS.
   (A)   The City shall issue a notice of Excessive Soil Loss to the Land
Occupier.
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   Describe the land and state the extent to which Soil loss exceeds
the Soil Loss Limits;
      (2)   Be delivered by either personal service or by certified mail; and
      (3)   State a time, not more than 90 days after the date of delivery of
the order, by which mediation shall be commenced.
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.24 APPOINTMENT OF MEDIATOR.
   The City may appoint the County Soil and Water Conservation Service to act
as mediator. The City may also contract with a mediation center to provide
mediation services.
§ 155.25 SETTLEMENT.
   The Land Occupier and the City shall attempt to agree on a Conservation Plan
And Time Schedule that will reduce Soil loss to the local Soil Loss Limits.
§ 155.26 FILING OF SETTLEMENT.
   A mediated settlement shall be approved by the local government and the Land
Occupier, put in writing, and filed with the county.
§ 155.27 COST-SHARE FUNDS.
   The Land Occupier has 90 days after the settlement is filed to apply for
state cost-share funds that will provide 75% of the cost of the permanent
Conservation Practices. Only 50% cost-share may be provided if the application
is not made within 90 days after the settlement is filed. The Land Occupier
shall apply for 50% cost-share within 270 days after the mediated settlement is
filed.
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.28 FORWARDING COMPLAINT TO COUNTY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   If the City and Land Occupier do not reach a mediated settlement, or
if the Land Occupier refuses to participate in mediation, the City shall
forward the complaint to the County Attorney.
   (B)   The County Attorney may petition the District court for a hearing
under §
155.29.
§ 155.29 DISTRICT COURT HEARING.
   (A)   If the Land Occupier and the City do not reach a mediated written
agreement or if the Land Occupier has refused mediation, the County Attorney
may petition the District court for a hearing.
      (1)   The Land Occupier may present a Conservation Plan And Time Schedule
as an alternative to the City's Conservation Plan And Time Schedule.
      (2)   The court shall follow the procedure and the criteria set out at
Minn. Rules, part 8400.4055 in issuing an order for the implementation of a
Conservation Plan And Time Schedule.
   (B)   If the court orders the implementation of:
      (1)   The Land Occupier's Conservation Plan And Time Schedule, amends the
Conservation Plan And Time Schedule, or develops a new Conservation Plan And
Time Schedule, the Land Occupier is eligible to apply for 75% cost-share funds
for permanent Conservation Practices. The Land Occupier shall apply for the
cost-share within 90 days after the court order. If the Land Occupier does not
apply within 90 days after the cost share funds, the cost-share must be reduced
to 50%. The court shall establish a time when the Land Occupier is not eligible
for cost-share funds if an application is not made; or
      (2)   The Conservation Plan And Time Schedule developed by the City the
Land Occupier shall be eligible for 50% cost-share funds if the Land Occupier
applies within 90 days after the court order.
§ 155.30 DISTRICT ASSISTANCE.
   A Land Occupier who has filed a mediated written settlement under § 155.25
or who has received a court order under § 155.29 may request the District to
assist in the planning, design and application of practices necessary to reduce
Soil loss to the Soil Loss Limits set out in § 155.03. The District must give
the Land Occupier a high priority for technical and cost-share fund assistance.
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.31 COST-SHARE APPLICATION.
   The method of application and eligibility requirements for cost-share funds
shall follow Minn. Rules, parts 8400.0100 to 8400.2900. If any other state or
federal cost-share funds are used, the method of application and eligibility
requirements shall follow the current state or federal guidelines.
Penalty, see §
155.99
SOIL EROSION CONTROL FOR DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
§ 155.45 SEDIMENTATION CONTROL PLAN FOR DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES.
   The provisions of this section only apply to the City.
   (A)   A person engaged in a Development Activity that will disturb land
shall submit a Sedimentation Control Plan and Time Schedule that will prevent
Excessive Soil Loss or Sediment from damaging adjacent land, bodies of water,
watercourses, or wetlands, to the City or its agent for approval.
   (B)   A Sedimentation Control Plan and Time Schedule must specify how the
movement of Soil and damage to other lands and regions will be minimized,
during the construction process.
      (1)   These methods include, but are not limited to, the use of:
temporary and permanent seedings, fabric, plastic or straw barriers, mulch,
Sediment controls basins or other Conservation Practices adequate to prevent
Erosion and Sediment damage.
      (2)   A Sedimentation Control Plan shall not be required for the
following development activities:
         (a)   Minor land disturbance activities such as home gardens and
individual home landscaping, repairs, and maintenance work;
         (b)   Construction, installation, maintenance of electric and
telephone utility lines or individual service connection to the utility lines;
         (c)   Septic tank lines or drainage fields unless included in an
overall plan for a land Development Activity relating to construction of a
building to be served by the septic tank system;
         (d)   Preparation for single-family residences separately built,
unless in conjunction with multiple construction in subdivision development;
         (e)   Disturbance of land areas less than 10,000 square feet for
commercial or noncommercial uses, except that the governing body of the local
unit of government may reduce this exception to a smaller area of disturbed
land or qualify the conditions under which this exception applies;
         (f)   Installation of fence, sign, telephone and electric poles and
other kinds of posts or poles; and
         (g)   Emergency work and repairs to protect life, limb or property.
   (C)   The following shall be addressed in developing and implementing a
Sedimentation Control Plan:
      (1)   Stabilization of denuded areas and stockpiles;
      (2)   Establishment of permanent vegetation;
      (3)   Protection of adjacent areas;
      (4)   Timing and stabilization of Sediment trapping measures;
      (5)   Use of Sediment basins;
      (6)   Stabilization of cut and fill slopes;
      (7)   Stormwater management for controlling off-site Erosion;
      (8)   Stabilization of waterways and outlets;
      (9)   Stormsewer inlet protection;
      (10)   Working in or crossing waterbodies;
      (11)   Underground utility construction;
      (12)   Construction access roads;
      (13)   Disposition of all temporary measurers; and
      (14)   Maintenance of all temporary and permanent urban Conservation
Practices.
   (D)   The Time Schedule accompanying the Sedimentation Control Plan shall
establish deadlines for the implementation and completion of each phase or
element of the Sedimentation Control Plan.
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.46 MINIMUM PLANNING STANDARDS.
   The Minnesota Construction Site Erosion and Sediment Control Planning
Handbook shall be the minimum planning standard for a Sedimentation Control
Plan. Any other procedures shall be approved by the local unit of government
and the District prior to its use.
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.47 LOCATION VIOLATION.
   Any conservation practice developed for the Sedimentation Control Plan may
not be located in violation of any existing ordinance the City is currently
enforcing.
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.48 REVIEW.
   (A)   The City may appoint the Zoning Administrator, Building Inspector,
Engineer or District to review the Sedimentation Control Plan and Time
Schedule.
   (B)   The City shall forward the Sedimentation Control Plan and Time
Schedule to the appointed reviewer within seven days of receiving the
Sedimentation Control Plan and Time Schedule from the Land Occupier.
   (C)   The appointed reviewer shall review the Sedimentation Control Plan and
Time Schedule within 21 days of receiving the plan from the City. The City
shall notify the Land Occupier of its decision after receipt of the comments
from the reviewer and no more than 28 days after receiving the Sedimentation
Control Plan and Time Schedule from the Land Occupier.
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.49 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   If the reviewer determines that the Sedimentation Control Plan and
Time Schedule will control Sedimentation, the City shall issue a permit that
authorizes the Development Activity contingent upon the implementation and
completion of the Sedimentation Control Plan.
   (B)   If the reviewer determines that the Sedimentation Control Plan and
Time Schedule do not control Sedimentation, the City shall not issue a permit
for the Development Activity. The Sedimentation Control Plan and Time Schedule
shall be re-submitted for approval before the Development Activity begins.
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.50 ESTABLISHMENT OF COST-SHARE FUNDS.
   (A)   Except for Development Activity, a Land Occupier is entitled to apply
for cost-share funds in the amounts set in §§
155.27 and
155.29.
   (B)   If cost-share funds are not currently available, the Land Occupier and
District shall enter into a priority cost-share assistance contract for future
cost-share funds. The priority cost-share assistance contract shall state the
percentage of cost-share funds as set in §§
155.27 and
155.29.
   (C)   With the approval of the priority cost-share assistance contract, the
Land Occupier shall be in compliance with the mediated or court ordered
agreement.
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.51 VARIANCE.
   A Land Occupier may petition the City for a variance from this chapter.
   (A)   The Land Occupier must document in the variance the economic hardship
or technical infeasibility for the petition.
   (B)   Procedures for hearing such a variance petition shall be the same as
are outlined in §
157.021.
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.52 MORE RESTRICTIVE STANDARD CONTROLS.
   In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of an Erosion control ordinance adopted by the City, the more
restrictive standard prevails.
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A Land Occupier who does not comply with the provisions of the
mediated written agreement is subject to a civil penalty up to $500.
   (B)   If the Land Occupier does not comply with the provisions of the court
order as set forth in §
155.29, the Land Occupier is subject to a civil penalty up to $500.
   (C)   A person engaged in a Development Activity who does not secure a
Sedimentation Control Plan and Time Schedule or make satisfactory progress to
complete the plan and schedule or make satisfactory progress to complete the
plan and schedule is subject to a civil penalty. The City shall file the
complaint with the County Attorney.
CHAPTER 156: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Introduction
   
156.002   Purpose
   
156.003   Scope
   
156.004   Definitions
   
156.005   Platting procedure
   
156.006   Preliminary and final plat requirements
   
156.007   Protection of natural features
   
156.008   Solar access planning
   156.009   Public sites and open space
   
156.010   Planned unit development
   
156.011   Minor subdivisions
   
156.012   Resubdivision
   
156.013   Land division
   
156.014   Registered land surveys
   
156.015   Metes and bounds
   
156.016   Unapproved subdivisions
   
156.017   Variances
   
156.018   Security interest
   
156.019   Building permits
   156.020   Effective date
Minimum Design Standards
   
156.035   Conformity with the Comprehensive Development Plan
   
156.036   Land requirements
   
156.037   Street plan
   
156.038   Cul-de-sac streets
   
156.039   Street design
   
156.040   Private streets
   156.041   Alley design
   
156.042   Sidewalk design
   
156.043   Public utilities
   
156.044   Drainage
   156.045   Easements
   156.046   Street trees
   156.047   Street names
   
156.048   Block design
   
156.049   Lot requirements
Engineering Standards
   
156.060   Streets
   
156.061   Utilities
   156.062   Sanitation; sewer and water rural areas
   156.063   Water supply
   156.064   Storm water drainage
   
156.065   Street signs
   
156.066   Utilities location
   
156.067   Inspection
Required Improvements and Financial Arrangements
   
156.080   Improvements required
   
156.081   Payment for installation of improvements
   
156.082   Agreement providing for the installation of improvements
   
156.083   Financial guarantee
   
156.084   Construction plans and inspections
   
156.085   Improvements completed prior to approval of plat
   
156.086   Trunk facilities
   156.087   Alternate installation and incomplete improvements
   
156.088   Non-conforming uses, buildings and structures
 
   
156.999   Penalty
Editor's Note:
   This chapter consists of a county ordinance that was adopted by the city.
There may be some instances, particularly various procedures involving county
and city administration, where the user should refer to the city as to the
correct process to be followed.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   General introduction.
      (1)   The city is but one of the land areas making up the Saint Paul-
Minneapolis seven county Metropolitan Area. Its present land use character is
varied - as in any area, but predominantly it is made of agricultural land
units. Its proximity to the core of the metropolitan area suggests that with
the forecasted expansion of population, the land use in the city will continue
to change as it has in the last 15 years. In regard to land use, the changes
will be in the direction of smaller pieces of land for housing and commercial
uses, and finally large scale commercial use such as sales, office, multiple
dwelling or concentrated housing developments.
      (2)   During the course of such change, on a large or small scale, land
holdings are divided into lots with provision for new streets and for the basic
utilities such as power, telephone, water and sewer. This conversion of land
into building sites is a process which requires careful regulation to ensure an
attractive, efficient and safe city environment. Provision must also be made
for possible future resubdivision, for after the subdivision of a land parcel
has been approved and buildings permitted, the same standards must be met by
future resubdivision. The division, combination or resubdivision of land
parcels are the first step in shaping the physical character of a city and as
such are important processes which should be subject to public regulation.
      (3)   Adequate, up-to-date subdivision regulations, as well as good
administration and enforcement, are the tools to control the change in land
use. These subdivision regulations must reflect the desire of the city as
outlined in its comprehensive development plan. Because the city's outlook will
vary as an area progresses toward urbanization, both the comprehensive plan and
subdivision regulations need periodic review. Finally, of course, the zoning
requirements outline the actual land area usage controlled by the subdivision
regulations within the framework of the comprehensive plan.
   (B)   Why plat.
      (1)   The land use pattern of the city is changing from an agricultural
land use, which required large parcels of land, to an urban land use, requiring
much smaller parcels. Land has been bought and sold using metes and bounds
descriptions, but now with smaller parcels being bought and sold the practice
of describing them by metes and bounds is no longer practical.
      (2)   Many metes and bounds descriptions, past and present, written by
unqualified people do not properly describe conveyance of land. Overlaps and
gaps have been created by these poor descriptions and can only be corrected by
the courts. Descriptions based on a good boundary survey can be checked,
therefore the record plat is a highly desirable instrument. The underlying
description of the property to be platted can be adjusted or corrected, based
on a boundary survey. The recorded plat then becomes a legal document denoting
lots and blocks as the subdivision of the described tract of land. Clean,
simple and accurate conveyances can then be made and described as Lot, Block-
Plat Name.
      (3)   The present platting system was established to provide a simple
system for keeping records of the division and ownership of land. State
statutes give the registered land surveyor exclusive rights to prepare plats.
The statutes also set minimum standards that the surveyor must meet, and
regulate the plat itself, as to information required, size, number and kind.
The reader is referred to M.S. Chapter 505, as it may be amended from time to
time, and the standard procedures for platting in the county.
   (C)   How platting is accomplished.
      (1)   Prior to the preparation of a plat, the subdividers or owners
should meet with city officials, with the Planning Commission, and the City
Engineer in order to be made fully aware of all applicable ordinances,
regulations and plans in the area to be subdivided. At this time or at a
subsequent informal meeting, the subdivider should submit a general sketch plan
of the proposed subdivision and preliminary proposals for the provision of
water supply and waste disposal. The sketch plan can be presented in simple
form but should show any zoning changes which would be required, and should
show that consideration has been given to the relationship of the proposed
subdivision to existing city facilities that would serve it, to neighboring
subdivisions and development, and to the topography of the site. The subdivider
is urged to avail themself of the advice and assistance of the Planning
Commission and the City Council at this point in order to save time and effort
and facilitate the approval of the plat.
      (2)   The next step is for the subdivider to prepare a preliminary plat
for the area to be subdivided. The preliminary plat is a very detailed drawing
showing the proposed development and necessary accessory information. It
contains more detail than is required on the sketch plan and serves as the
basis for the public hearing. It also serves as the master plan for a
development where subdividing a piece of land is carried out stepwise, by a
series of plats, where the first plat which is approved and recorded may be
only part of the total plan, and may later be followed by other plats, all in
conformity with the overall plan.
      (3)   After the preliminary plat is approved, the subdivider will have
their licensed surveyor, engineer, and/or planner prepare a final plat covering
all or part of the land to be subdivided. The final plat is a legal document
designed primarily to record in the city offices the exact boundaries and
location of parcels of land. Before the City Council will approve the plat, it
will usually require the subdivider to agree to do certain things, such as
paved streets and stormwater management facilities. The City Council will make
sure that all such matters are agreed to by the subdivider, and are covered as
necessary by written contract, and by bond, before the plat is approved.
      (4)   The following briefly outlines the platting process for the city.
         (a)   Prepare sketch plan. Meet with city officials and the Planning
Commission to discuss zoning requirements and platting procedure.
         (b)   Prepare preliminary plat. Submit seven copies to the County
Surveyor in order to be placed on the agenda for the County Plat Commission.
         (c)   Submit preliminary plat to city. Submit preliminary plat to city
officials for review and public hearing after review by the County Plat
Commission.
         (d)   Submit preliminary plat to watershed district for review and
approval. If lakeshore property, preliminary plat must also be submitted to the
State Department of Natural Resources.
         (e)   Prepare final plat. After the County Plat Commission and City
Council has given preliminary plat approval, submit copies to the County
Surveyor and to the County Plat Commission for approval.
         (f)   Submit final plat. Submit final plat to city officials for
approval.
         (g)   Signatures and final approval. Obtain all required signatures
and final approval by the County Board.
§ 156.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The process of dividing raw land into home sites, or separate parcels
for other uses, is one of the most important factors in the growth of any city.
Few activities have a more lasting effect upon its appearance and environment.
Once the land has been subdivided into urban lots and the streets, homes and
other structures have been constructed, the basic character of this permanent
addition to the city has become firmly established. It is then virtually
impossible to alter its basic character without substantial expense. In most
subdivisions, roads and streets must be maintained and various public service
must be provided. The welfare of the entire city is thereby affected in many
important respects. It is, therefore, to the interest of the general public,
the developer and the future owners that subdivisions be conceived, designed
and developed in accordance with sound rules and proper standards.
   (B)   All subdivisions of land hereafter submitted for approval shall fully
comply, in all respects, with the regulations set forth herein.
   (C)   It is the purpose of these regulations to:
      (1)   Encourage well planned, efficient and attractive subdivisions by
establishing adequate standards for design and construction;
      (2)   Provide for the health and safety of residents by requiring
properly designed streets and adequate sewage and water service;
      (3)   Place the cost of improvements against those benefiting from their
construction;
      (4)   Secure the rights of the public with respect to public lands and
waters; and
      (5)   Set the minimum requirements necessary to protect the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare.
   (D)    In order to integrate new subdivisions with the development
objectives of the city and to contribute to an attractive, stable and wholesome
environment, adequate public services and an integrated safe road and highway
system, the subdividing of land in the city shall be required. The provisions
of this chapter shall not be in effect until the provisions of
Chapter 157, Zoning, become effective. If the city has in effect as of the
effective date of this chapter, any ordinances regulating the subdivision of
land within shorelands or floodplains, the provisions of those ordinances shall
supersede the provisions of this chapter within the areas regulated. The
provisions of this chapter shall not be in effect until a certified copy of
this chapter is filed with the County Recorder as required by M.S. § 462.36, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Legal Authority. This chapter is enacted pursuant to M.S. § 462.358,
as may be amended from time to time.
   (F)   Compliance.
      (1)   Any subdivision creating parcels, tracts, or lots which results in
one or more parcels, tracts or lots of less than five acres shall be platted,
except as provided in this chapter.
      (2)   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 505 shall prevail over any inconsistent
provisions in this chapter.
      (3)   No conveyance other than those described in division (A) above,
shall be recorded unless it meets the requirements of §
152.11 herein.
      (4)   No conveyance or other document creating a subdivision of any real
property other than by a duly approved plat, shall be recorded unless
accompanied by a registered surveyor's drawing for recording. The surveyor's
drawing shall accurately illustrate the subdivider's entire lot, parcel or
tract which is subdivided by the conveyance or other document, and shall
illustrate the location of any wetlands, lakes, rivers, streams or other public
waters on that property. No conveyance or other document shall be recorded
unless accompanied by this surveyor's drawing.
      (5)   Any surveyor performing a survey in the city shall file a copy of
that survey with the County Recorder and the Clerk.
      (6)   No deed or other document purporting to subdivide property shall be
recorded or certified for recording by the County Auditor, County Treasurer or
County Recorder unless it meets the requirements set forth in this Chapter.
§ 156.003 SCOPE.
   The rules and regulations governing plats and subdivision of land contained
herein shall apply within the city and other land as permitted by state
statutes. In the event of overlapping jurisdiction within the prescribed area,
the extent of jurisdiction shall be determined and agreed upon between the city
and the other municipality or municipalities concerned. Except in the case of
resubdivision, this chapter shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a part
of a subdivision recorded in the office of the County Recorder prior to the
1972 effective date of the county's first subdivision ordinance, nor is it
intended by this chapter to repeal, annul or in any way impair or interfere
with existing provisions of other laws or ordinances except those specifically
repealed by, or in conflict with this chapter, or with private restrictions
placed upon property by deed, covenant or other private agreement, or with
restrictive covenants governing the land. Where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon the land than is imposed or required by such existing
provisions of law, ordinance, contract or deed, the provisions of this chapter
shall control.
§ 156.004 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, certain numbers, abbreviations, terms
and words used herein shall be used, interpreted and defined as set forth in
this section. Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used
in the present tense include the future tense; words used in the plural number
include the singular. In the event of conflicting provisions in the text of
this chapter, the more restrictive shall apply.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER. The City Clerk-Administrator or another person
appointed by the City Council to administer this chapter.
   ALLEY. Any strip of land publicly or privately owned, less than 33 feet in
width between property lines, set aside for public vehicular access to abutting
property.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or their
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   ARTERIAL, MINOR. A road intended to move through and from adjacent
subregions and activity centers within subregions.
   ARTERIAL ROAD OR HIGHWAY (PRIMARY). A road or highway of considerable
continuity designed primarily to serve as an interconnection link between
sectors of the city and beyond (such as from within a city to outlying areas).
   ATTORNEY. The ATTORNEY employed by the city unless otherwise stated.
   BACKLOT. Residential lots without water frontage located in the Shoreland
Area of the city.
   BACKSLOPE. The portion of the roadway cross-section beginning at the outside
edge of the ditch bottom, sloping upward to a point where the slope intersects
the existing ground line.
   BLOCK. The enclosed area within the perimeter of roads, property lines or
boundaries of the subdivision.
   BOND. Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety BOND,
collateral, property or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory
to the City Council. All BONDS shall be approved by the City Council wherever a
BOND is required by this chapter.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of the street right-of-way between the curb line and
the property line.
   BUILDABLE LAND. Land with a slope less than 25 percent, and outside of any
required setbacks, except that on a natural environment lake where a 200 foot
structure setback is required, the buildable area calculation would be measured
from a 150 foot setback rather than the required 200 foot setback; and above
any floodway, drainageway, or drainage easement.
   BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof
supported by columns, walls, or other means of support and used or built for
the shelter or enclosure of any person, animal or property of any kind. When
any portion thereof is completely separated from every other part thereof by
area separation, each portion of such building shall be deemed as a separate
building.
   BUTT LOT. A lot at the end of a block and located between two corner lots.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A pattern of subdivision development which places
detached houses, duplexes or townhouse units into compact groupings while
providing a network of commonly owned or dedicated open space.
   COLLECTOR STREET OR ROAD. A road intended to move traffic from local roads
to secondary roads.
   COMMUNITY. This city.
   COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The policies, statements, goals and
interrelated plans for private and public land and water use, transportation
and city facilities, including recommendations for planned execution,
documented in texts, ordinance and maps which constitute the guide for the
future development of the city or any portion of the city.
   CONCEPT PLAN. A sketch preparatory to the preparation of the preliminary
plat to enable the applicant to save time and expense in reaching general
agreement with the City Council as to the form of the development and the
objectives of these regulations. The concept plan shall contain data in
accordance with Section 6.1 of this Chapter.
   CONTOUR INTERVAL. The elevation change between contour lines.
   CONTOUR MAP. A MAP on which irregularities of land surface are shown by
lines connecting points of equal elevations. CONTOUR interval is the vertical
height between CONTOUR lines.
   COPY. A print or reproduction made from a tracing.
   CORNER LOT. A lot bordered on at least two adjacent sides by using streets.
   COUNTY. Washington County, Minnesota.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Lake St. Croix Beach.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A road having but one end open to traffic and the other end
being permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
   DEDICATED STREET. A roadway designated for public use.
   DEVELOPER. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or their
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   DEVELOPMENT. The act of building structures and installing site
improvements.
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. A contract with the City in which the owner or
developer agrees to take certain specified actions in consideration of the
City's granting preliminary and final plat approval.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS. Lots which have a front line abutting on one street
and a back or rear line abutting on another street.
   DRAINAGE COURSE. A water course or indenture for the drainage of surface
water.
   DRAINAGE WAY: A natural passageway in the surface of the earth so situated
and having such a topographical nature that surface water flows through it from
other areas before reaching a final ponding area. The term also includes all
drainage structures that have been constructed or placed for the purpose of
conducting water from one place to another.
   EASEMENT. A grant by an owner of land for a specific use of said land by the
public, generally, or to a person or persons.
   ENGINEER. The City Engineer.
   ESCROW. A deposit of cash with the city government in lieu of an amount
required and still in force on a performance or maintenance bond. Such ESCROW
funds shall be deposited by the Building Inspector and Zoning Administrator in
a separate account.
   FEE SCHEDULE. A document setting forth the city's fees for permits, appeals,
variances and subdivision filings as adopted by ordinance by the City Council
as provided in §30.03. FINAL PLAT. The final map, drawing or chart on which the
subdivider's plan of subdivision is presented to the City Council for approval
and which, if approved, will be submitted to the County Recorder.
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of Lake St. Croix Beach.
   GRADE. The slope of a road, street or other public way, specified in
percentage terms.
   HEREIN. In this chapter.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A sewage treatment system or part
thereof, serving a dwelling or other establishment, or group thereof, and using
sewage tanks or advanced treatment followed by soil treatment and disposal
consisting of one or more septic tanks and a soil treatment system.
   INSLOPE. The portion of the roadway cross-section beginning at the outside
edge of the roadway shoulder, sloping downward to the inside edge of the ditch
bottom.
   LOT. A parcel of land designated by metes and bounds, registered land
survey, plat or other means, and which description is either recorded in the
office of the County Recorder or Registrar of Titles or used by the County
Treasurer or County Assessor to separate such parcel from other lands for tax
purposes. A lot must be situated and have its principal frontage on a public
street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot bordered on at least two (2) adjacent sides by
intersecting streets.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions,
including but not limited to subdivisions of four or more lots, or any size
subdivision requiring any new street or extension of the local government
facilities, or the creation of any public improvements.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET (SERVICE ROAD). A minor street parallel to and
adjacent to high volume arterial streets and highways, which provide access to
abutting properties and protection of through traffic.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A description of real property which identifies a parcel
of land by its shapes and boundaries, starting at a known point and describing
the bearing and distances of lines forming the boundaries of the property or
delineating a fractional portion of a section, lot or area by described lines
or portions thereof. .
   MINIMUM SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS. The guides, principles and
specifications for the preparation of subdivision plans indicating among other
things, the minimum and maximum dimensions of the various elements set forth in
the plan.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any SUBDIVISION containing not more than three lots
fronting on an existing street, not involving any new street or road, or the
extension of municipal facilities, or the creation of any public improvements,
and not adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property,
and not in conflict with any provisions or portion of the master plan, official
map, zoning ordinance, or this chapter.
   NATURAL WATER WAY. A natural passageway in the surface of the earth so
situated and having such a topographical nature that surface water flows
through it from other areas before reaching a final ponding area. The term also
includes all drainage structures that have been constructed or placed for the
purpose of conducting water from one place to another.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. A SUBDIVISION whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or industrial. Such SUBDIVISION shall comply
with the applicable provisions of these regulations. OUTLOT. A lot remnant or
any parcel of land included in a plat, which is not Buildable at the time of
platting. Such OUTLOT may be a large tract that could be subdivided in the
future or may be too small to comply with the minimum size requirements of
zoning and subdivision ordinances or otherwise unsuitable for development and
therefore not usable as a building site.
   OWNER. Includes all persons interested in a property as fee simple OWNER,
life estate holder, encumbrancer or otherwise.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public right-of-way across or within a block, to be used
by pedestrians and/or non-motorized vehicles.
   PERSON. Any person, corporation or association including governmental
agencies and political entities.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The duly appointed planning and zoning advisory
commission of the city.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary map, drawing, or chart indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision to be submitted to the Planning Commission
and City Council for approval. PRELIMINARY PLAT shall contain data required as
outlined in § 156.006.
   PRIVATE STREET. A street that is owned by one or more private parties, not
dedicated to the public and which provides vehicular access to more than two
(2) parcels of land.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts, agreements, or declarations entered into
between private parties and constituting a restriction on the use of all
private property within a subdivision for the benefit of the property owners.
   PUBLIC ROAD OR STREET. A particularly described and identified right-of-way,
at least 33 feet in width, dedicated to public use for road or highway purposes
and to provide right-of-way beneath it for sewer, water and storm drainage
pipes.
   RESERVE STRIPS. A narrow strip of land placed between lot lines and streets
to control access.
   RESUBDIVISION. A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat
if such change affects any street layout on such map or area reserved thereon
for public use, or any lot line; or if it affects any map or plan legally
recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The land covered by a public road or land dedicated for public
use or for certain private use such as land over which a power line passes.
   ROAD, DEAD-END. A road or a portion of a street with only one vehicular-
traffic outlet.
   SERVICE ROAD. A public road having a traveled surface of at least 24 feet in
width lying parallel to and adjacent to an ARTERIAL ROAD OR HIGHWAY and which
provides access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
   SHALL. Is always mandatory.
   SKETCH PLAN. A drawing showing the proposed subdivision of property. This
PLAN is not necessarily drawn to scale and exact accuracy is not a requirement.
   SKETCH PLAT. A sketch preparatory to the preparation of the preliminary plat
(or subdivision plat in the case of minor subdivisions) to enable the
subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general agreement with the
local city and Planning Department as to the form of the plat and the
objectives of these regulations.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the lines delineating the
roadway including shoulders or parking lanes of a street. On urban designed
streets it is face to face of curbs.
   STRUCTURE. Any building or appurtenance, including but not limited to,
vision obstructing fences, decks, retaining walls, satellite dishes, except
aerial or underground utility lines, such as sewer, electric, telephone,
telegraph, gas lines, tower poles, and other supporting facilities. Includes
any part thereof.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person commencing proceedings under this chapter to affect a
subdivision of land for themself or for another
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land after the effective date of
this chapter into two or more lots or parcels, for the purpose of transfer of
ownership or building development. The term includes resubdivision and, when
appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process of subdividing or to
the land subdivided.
   SURVEY, LAND. The process of determining boundaries and areas of tracts of
land. Also called property survey or boundary survey.
   SURVEYOR. A land SURVEYOR registered under state laws.
   THESE REGULATIONS. This subdivisions chapter.
   THOROUGHFARE. A street primarily designated to carry large volumes of
traffic and provide for vehicular movement between and among large areas.
   USED OR OCCUPIED. As applied to any land or building shall be construed to
include the words "intended, arranged or designed to be USED OR OCCUPIED."
   VICINITY MAP. A MAP drawn to comparatively small scale which definitely
shows the area proposed to be platted in relation to known geographical
features, such as town centers, lakes, roads.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. A ZONING ORDINANCE or resolution controlling the use of
land as adopted by the city.
§ 156.005 PLATTING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Generally. The following procedures shall be followed in the
administration of this section and no real property within the jurisdiction of
this section shall be subdivided and offered for sale or a plat recorded until
a pre-application meeting has been held, a preliminary plat has been reviewed
and approved and until a final plat has been reviewed and approved as set forth
in the procedures provided herein.
   (B)   Pre-Application meeting. Prior to the submission of any plat for
consideration by the Planning Commission, under the provisions of this chapter,
the subdivider may meet with the Administrative Officers to introduce themself
as a potential subdivider and learn the relevant requirements of the city's
code.
   (C)   Preliminary plat.
      (1)   Submission of plat. The subdivider shall submit to the
Administrative Office ten copies of a preliminary plat of their proposed
subdivision, the requirements of which are set forth in this chapter. They
shall be filed at least 30 days prior to a regularly scheduled Planning
Commission meeting, or a Council meeting, and shall be accompanied by the fees
set forth in the fee schedule.
      (2)   Notice procedure.
         (a)   Notice of the public hearing at which the Planning Commission,
will consider the preliminary plat shall be made by the Administrative Officer
pursuant to M.S. § 462.358, Subd. 3b, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (b)   The owner or subdivider shall also be notified as to the time
and place of the public hearing.
         (c)   As required by M.S. § 505.03, as it may be amended from time to
time, at least 30 days prior to taking final action on a preliminary plat, the
proposed preliminary plat must be presented by the Administrative Officer to
the Commissioner of Transportation for review if the plat includes or borders
on a trunk highway or state rail bank property. Within five days after
receiving a preliminary plat that includes or borders on an existing or
proposed county road or state rail bank property, the Administrative Officer
must submit it to the County Engineer for review. The Commissioner of
Transportation and the County Engineer must report to the city within 30 days
with any comments and recommendations they may have. No preliminary plat may be
approved by the city until these comments and recommendations are received and
considered. Within ten days after approval of the preliminary plat, notice must
be sent to the Commissioner and the County Board explaining how their comments
and recommendations have been met.
            1.   A legible preliminary drawing or print of a proposed
preliminary plat shall be acceptable for purposes of review by the Commissioner
of Transportation or the County Highway Engineer. To such drawing or print
there shall be attached a written statement describing:
               a.   The outlet for and means of disposal of surface waters from
the proposed platted area;
               b.   The land use designation or zoning category of the proposed
platted area;
               c.   The locations of ingress and egress to the proposed platted
area; and
               d.   A preliminary site plan for the proposed platted area, if
one has been prepared.
      (3)   Public hearing. At the public hearing set for consideration of the
preliminary plat, the Planning Commission, or the City Council shall consider
comments to the notice of plat, and it shall also review the preliminary plat
from the standpoint of environmental impact, compatibility with surrounding
area, suitability of area for subdividing, public health and welfare, crowding
potential, the compatibility with the city Comprehensive Plan and overall city
planning.
      (4)   Planning Commission action. At the conclusion of the public hearing
set forth in the preceding division, the Planning Commission, shall either
recommend approval, conditional approval or denial of the preliminary plat. The
Planning Commission may also table the preliminary plat for future
consideration. The Planning Commission shall not recommend approval of a
preliminary plat unless the presentation requirements set forth in §
152.08 have all been met. No lot on the preliminary plat shall be recommended
for approval if, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, a lot does not have
dedicated road access, an adequate building site, or sufficient area for an on-
site individual sewage treatment system in areas where public services are not
available, meeting the requirements of all rules and regulations in this
chapter and the code of the city. The action of the Planning Commission shall
be stated in writing setting forth the conditions of approval, reasons for
approval or the reasons for denial. The Planning Commission's recommendation
shall then be submitted to the City Council.
      (5)   City Council action. The City Council shall consider the Planning
Commission's action, if the city has a Planning Commission, at their next
regularly scheduled meeting, and shall either approve, approve with conditions,
deny or table for future consideration the application. As required by M.S. §
462.358, Subd. 3b, as it may be amended from time to time, the Council must
either approve or deny the application for a preliminary plat within 120 days
after the application has been submitted, unless an extension of time has been
agreed to in writing by the subdivider. The 120-day period does not begin to
run until the application contains all of the information required by §§
152.08(B) and
152.09. Failure to comply with the time limits for approval in M.S. § 462.358,
Subd. 3b, as it may be amended from time to time, may result in automatic
approval of a preliminary plat. The Council shall not approve a preliminary
plat unless the presentation requirements set forth in §
152.08 have all been met. No lot on the preliminary plat shall be approved if,
in the opinion of the Council, a lot does not have dedicated road access, an
adequate building site, or sufficient area for an on-site individual sewage
treatment system in areas where public services are not available, meeting the
requirements of all rules and regulations in this chapter and the code of the
city. The action of the Council shall be stated in writing, setting forth the
conditions of approval, reasons for approval or the reasons for denial.
Approval shall mean the acceptance of the design as a basis for preparation of
the final plat, and the submission of such final plat for approval. Approval by
the City Council of all engineering proposals presented in the preliminary plat
which pertain to such things as water supply, sewage disposal, storm drainage,
gas and electric service, road gradients and widths and the surface of roads is
required prior to the approval of the final plat. The Council may, after
notifying the subdivider, employ qualified persons to check and verify each
proposal, the costs of such services shall be paid by the subdivider.
         (a)   The City Council may require modifications, changes and
revisions of the preliminary plat, as it deems necessary to protect the health,
safety, morals, comfort, convenience and general welfare of the city.
         (b)   If the preliminary plat is not approved by the City Council, the
reasons for such action shall be recorded in the proceedings and transmitted to
the applicant.
         (c)   Should the subdivider desire to amend the plat as approved they
may submit an amended plat which shall follow the same procedure as a new plat,
except for the public hearing and fee unless the amendment is in the opinion of
the City Council of such scope as to constitute a new plat, then it shall be
re-filed.
   Any plat proposed in a Lower St. Croix Riverway district must have approval
of the State Department of Natural Resources. If a watershed district or
watershed management organization exists in the area of the proposed platted
property, approval must be obtained from the watershed district or watershed
management organization.
   (D)   Final Plat.
      (1)   Filing the final plat.
         (a)   The owner or subdivider shall file with the Administrative
Officer within one year of the date of the approval of the preliminary plat the
final plat which shall substantially conform to the preliminary plat as
approved (see §
152.08(C) for filing document requirements) and all applicable city regulations
and ordinances, state and federal rules, regulations and laws.
         (b)   Final plat approval shall not be granted to any plat which is
not filed within the time herein specified, unless an extension is requested in
writing and for good cause, granted by the City Council. The final plat shall
be presented to the City Council at a scheduled meeting which is at least two
weeks after the date of filing with the Administrative Officer.
         (c)   The subdivider shall submit, with the final plat, an opinion of
title by the subdivider's attorney.
         (d)   The City Engineer shall prepare final engineering drawings for
the construction of all public improvements including but not limited to
streets, sidewalks, trails, water systems, sanitary sewer systems, stormwater
management systems, etc. The subdivider shall provide electronic versions of
the preliminary plat drawings and design files in an industry standard Computer
Aided Design (CAD) format without limitation for this purpose.
      (2)   Contents. The subdivider may file a final plat limited to such
portion of the preliminary plat which the subdivider proposed to record and
develop at one time, provided that such portion must conform to all
requirements of this chapter. Lots which have received preliminary approval but
are not included on the final plat must be considered as a new subdivision.
      (3)   Review. The Administrative Officer shall check the final plat to
see that it is in substantial conformity with the preliminary plat as approved
by the City Council and that it meets all applicable city regulations and
ordinances, state and federal rules, regulations and laws.
      (4)   City Council action.
         (a)   Final plat approval shall not be granted unless all presentation
requirements of §
152.08 have been met and the plat conforms to all applicable city regulations
and ordinances, state and federal rules, regulations and laws. The City Council
shall approve, deny or table the final plat, and the Clerk shall notify the
owner or subdivider of the Board's actions within 60 days of the submittal of
the final plat, as required by M.S. § 462.358, Subd. 3b, as it may be amended
from time to time, unless an extension of time has been agreed to in writing by
the subdivider. Failure to meet the time limit requirements of M.S. § 462.358,
Subd. 3b, as it may be amended from time to time, may result in automatic
approval of the final plat. The final plat, if approved, shall then be recorded
with the County Recorder by the subdivider. If any irregularity prevents
recording of the final plat, the County Auditor shall notify the owner or
subdivider. Any approval of the final plat by the Council shall be null and
void if the plat is not recorded with the County Recorder within 90 days after
the date of approval unless application for an extension of time is made, in
writing, during said 90-day period, to the City Council and for good cause
granted by the Council.
§ 156.006 PLATTING PRESENTATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    Lot suitability. Each lot created through subdivision must be
suitable in its natural state for the proposed use with minimal alteration.
Suitability analysis by the city shall consider susceptibility to flooding,
existence of wetlands, soil and rock formations with severe limitations for
development, severe erosion potential, steep topography, inadequate water
supply or sewage treatment capabilities, near-shore aquatic conditions
unsuitable for water-based recreation, important fish and wildlife habitat,
presence of significant historic sites or any other feature of the natural land
likely to be harmful to the health, safety or welfare of future residents of
the proposed subdivision or of the community.
   (B)   Preliminary Plat.
      (1)   Preliminary plat must be prepared by a Minnesota Registered Land
Surveyor and certified as such. Plats must conform to the technical
requirements of M.S. § 505.021, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Scale: 1 inch equals 100 feet, if possible, but not smaller than 1
inch equals 200 feet.
      (3)   Identification and description:
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision, which name shall not duplicate or
be alike in pronunciation of the name of any plat theretofore recorded in the
city;
         (b)   Location by section, township, range or by other identifying
description
         (c)   Name and address of the record owner, and any agent having
control of the land, subdivider, land surveyor, engineer and designer of the
plan;
         (d)   Graphic scale not less than one inch to 100 feet;
         (e)   North point and vicinity map of area showing well known
geographical points for orientation within a one-half mile radius;
         (f)   List of adjoining property owners within 350 feet of the
proposed plat;
         (g)   Date of preparation; and
         (h)   A dedication statement as required by M.S. § 505.021, Subd. 2,
as it may be amended from time to time, describing what part of the subdivision
land is dedicated, to whom and for what purpose.
      (4)   Existing conditions in tract and in surrounding area to a distance
of 300 feet:
         (a)   Boundary lines shall be shown clearly and to such a degree of
accuracy that conforms to the plat in that no major changes are necessary in
preparing said plat;
         (b)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision, clearly outlined and
dimensioned;
         (c)   Existing zoning classifications for land in and abutting the
subdivision;
         (d)   Total acreage and total water frontage (shoreland areas) and
water boundaries;
         (e)   Platted roads, rights-of-way and utility easements
         (f)   Existing buildings and structures
         (g)   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts,
wells, septic systems or other underground facilities within the preliminary
plat area and to a distance of 100 feet beyond. Such data as grades, and
locations of catch basins, manholes, hydrants and street pavement width and
type, shall also be shown;
         (h)   Boundary lines of adjoining unsubdivided or subdivided land,
within 100 feet, identified by name and ownership, but including all contiguous
land owned or controlled by the subdivider;
         (i)   Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of
not more than two feet except where the horizontal contour interval is 100 feet
or more, a one foot vertical interval shall be shown. Water courses, marshes,
wooded areas, rock outcrops, power transmission poles and lines and other
significant features shall also be shown. National Geodetic Vertical Datum 1929
adjustment shall be used for all topographic mapping;
         (j)   A copy of all proposed private restrictions shall be submitted;
         (k)   Plans for the provision of potable water, sewage disposal,
drainage, and flood control;
         (l)   Summary of soil and vegetation types (terrestrial and aquatic);
         (m)   Lakes, water courses and wetlands and such other information as
soil tests, location of the ordinary high water level and contours at vertical
intervals of not more than ten feet. All elevation data shall be mean sea level
or some other assumed, workable datum;
         (n)   Evidence that the ground water level is at least three feet
below the level of finished grades or plans for resolving any ground water
problems; and
         (o)   All other information required by M.S. § 505.021, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (5)   In areas where public sewer is not available, two soil borings
shall be completed on each lot with results being submitted to the City
Planning Commission. If it appears soil may not be suitable on any lot for the
installation of an on-site septic system, additional borings and percolation
tests may be required;
         (a)   Soil types and location of limits of each soil type as shown in
the soil survey of the county;
         (b)   All slopes in excess of 12% shall be delineated by shading or
hatching;
         (c)   If severe soil limitations for the intended use are noted in the
soil handbook on file in the Planning Commission and the County Soil and Water
Conservation District Office, a plan or statement indicating the soil
conservation practice or practices to be used to overcome said limitation shall
be made part of the permit application; and
         (d)   On all lakes, ponds and wetlands, all water surface elevations,
natural ordinary high elevation, and present and proposed 100-year flood
elevations shall be denoted;
      (6)   Subdivision design features.
         (a)   Layout of proposed road rights-of-way and utility easements
showing road names, approximate lot dimensions, parks, and other public areas.
All roads must be identified along with proposed names of streets. The name of
any street shall conform to the county uniform street naming and property
numbering system as applicable. The road wright-of-way layout shall include all
contiguous land owned or controlled by the subdivider;
         (b)   Statement of the proposed use of all parcels stating type of
residential buildings with number of proposed dwelling units; type of business
or industry so as to reveal the effect of the development on traffic, fire
hazards and congestion of population;
         (c)   Gradients of proposed streets, sewer lines and water mains and
drainage plans on a copy of the contour map. Plans and profiles showing
locations and typical cross-sections of street pavement including curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, drainage easements, servitude rights-of-way, manholes and
catch basins;
         (d)   Locations and widths of proposed alleys and pedestrian ways;
         (e)   Lot and block numbers and preliminary dimensions of lots and
blocks and area of each lot;
         (f)   Proposed front, side and rear building setback lines;
         (g)   Location and size of proposed sanitary sewer lines and water
mains or proposed city sewer and water systems;
         (h)   Areas, other than streets, alleys, pedestrian ways and utility
easements, intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use, including the
size of such area or areas in acres;
         (i)   Statement of proposed protective covenants;
         (j)   Grading and drainage plan for entire subdivision. If any fill or
excavation is proposed in a wetland or lake, approval must be obtained from the
State Department of Natural Resources and Army Corps of Engineers; and
         (k)   Erosion and sediment control plan.
         (l)   Source of water supply;
         (m)   Provisions for sewage disposal, surface water drainage and flood
control;
         (n)   Easement dedications must be provided over natural drainage or
ponding areas for management of stormwater;
         (o)   If any zoning changes are contemplated, the proposed zoning plan
for the areas, including dimensions;
         (p)   Such other information as may be requested by the City,
Engineer, or Planning Commission; and
         (q)   Where the subdivider owns property adjacent to that which is
being proposed for the subdivision, the Planning Commission may require that
the subdivider submit a sketch plat of the remainder of the property so as to
show the possible relationships between the proposed subdivision and future
subdivision. In any event, all subdivisions must be shown to relate well with
existing or potential adjacent subdivisions and land use.
      (7)   Preliminary Title Opinion. The subdivider shall provide a
Preliminary Title Opinion, prepared by an attorney of the subdivider's
choosing, in substantial conformity with the form set forth as Appendix I to
this chapter.
      (8)   On-site. Within 14 days of submitting the preliminary plat, the
subdivider must clearly stake and identify the tentative proposed lot corners
and the proposed center line of the road serving the proposed subdivision.
   (C)   Final Plat. The final plat shall include the following:
      (1)   Such information as was found necessary for review and requested by
the Planning Commission, if the city has a Planning Commission, or City
Council;
      (2)   Data requirements as set forth in M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (3)   All interior and exterior boundary lines shall be correctly
designated on the plat and shall show bearings on all straight lines, or angles
at all angle points, and central angle and radii and arc lines for all curves.
Durable iron monuments shall be set at each angle and curve point on the
interior and exterior boundary lines and at all block corners and at all
intermediate points on the block or lot lines indicating a change of direction
in the lines. The plat shall indicate that the monuments have been set;
      (4)   An identification system for all lots and blocks. All lots shall be
numbered consecutively;
      (5)   The area (in square feet) and dimensions of all lots in feet;
      (6)   The subdivider shall submit two hardshells, one transparency copy
and six duplicate copies of the final plat;
      (7)   All signatures on the plat must be in black ink;
      (8)   Certification by a registered land surveyor to the effect that the
plat represents a survey made by them and that monuments and markers shown
thereon exist as located and that all dimensional and geodesic details are
correct;
      (9)   Notarized certification by the fee owner, any contract for deed
vendees and by any mortgage holder of record, of the adoption of the plat and
the dedication of roads and other public areas as required by M.S. § 505.021,
Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (10)   Certification showing that all taxes, special assessments and
utility charges currently due on the property to be subdivided have been paid
in full for the calendar year in which the plat is filed;
      (11)   Form for approval by Registered Land Surveyor:
         I hereby certify that I have reviewed this plat and found it to be in
compliance with the surveying requirements of the Subdivision Control Ordinance
of the City and Minnesota Statutes Ch. 505.
      (12)   The subdivider shall provide the County Auditor's Office with a
Final Title Opinion prepared by the attorney who prepared the Preliminary Title
Opinion in substantial conformity with the form set forth as Appendix II to
this chapter, within 14 days of the final plat being recorded. The attorney
shall also sign the following statement on the face of the plat prior to
filing:
         I hereby certify that proper evidence of title has been presented to
and examined by me, and I hereby approve this plat as to form and execution.
      (13)   Form for Mortgage Statement:
         I hereby attest to the fact that there are no mortgages, other than
shown, outstanding against any of the property in this subdivision.
         Signed_________________________________________ Dated_____________.
            Subdivider
      (14)   Form for comparison by Administrative Officer:
         Comparison with Preliminary Plat made this______ day
of______,________.
         Signed______________________________
            City Administrative Officer
      (15)   Form for approval by City Council:
         Accepted and approved by the City Council of the city of , Minnesota,
this__________day of,_____, _____.
         Signed______________________________
            Mayor Signed
         Signed______________________________
            City Clerk-Administrator
      (16)   Form for approval by County Treasurer:
         I hereby certify that the taxes for the year__________for the lands
described within are paid.
         Signed______________________________ Dated__________
            County Treasurer
      (17)   Form for approval by County Auditor:
         No delinquent taxes and transfer entered. Dated__________
         Signed______________________________
            County Auditor Signed
         Signed______________________________
            Deputy Auditor
      (18)   Form for approval by County Recorder:
         I hereby certify that the within instrument was filed in this office
for record on the__________day of__________, at__________o'clock_____.M., and
was duly recorded in Book of____________________on page__________.
         Signed ______________________________
            County Recorder Signed
         Signed ______________________________
            Deputy Recorder
§ 156.007 PROTECTED AREAS AND TREE PRESERVATION.
   (A)   Protected Areas.
      (1)   The City Council reserves the right to decline approval of a
subdivision if due regard is not shown for the preservation of all natural
features such as large trees, water courses, scenic points, historical spots
and similar city assets which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and
stability to the proposed development of the property.
      (2)   Where land proposed for subdivision is deemed environmentally
sensitive by the city due to the existence of wetlands, drainageways,
watercourses, floodable areas, significant trees, steep slopes or wooded areas,
the design of said subdivision shall clearly reflect all necessary measures to
ensure against adverse environmental impacts. Based upon the necessity to
control and maintain certain sensitive areas, the city shall determine whether
said protection will be accomplished through lot enlargement and redesign or
dedication of those sensitive areas in the form of outlots. In general,
measures of protection shall include design solutions that allow for
construction and grading involving a minimum of alteration to sensitive areas.
Such measures, when deemed appropriate by the city, may include, but shall not
be limited to, the following:
         (a)   The establishment of buffers designed consistent with adopted
management plans, if any, easements and/or outlots over wetlands, drainageways
and watercourses as approved by the City Engineer.
         (b)   The implementation of flood control measures, including ponding
and infiltration design standards as specified in adopted management plans, if
any, and approved by the City Engineer.
         (c)   The enlargement of lots or redesign of the subdivision.
         (d)   The submission of a tree preservation plan subject to the
approval of the City Council.
         (e)   The utilization of appropriate erosion control measures subject
to approval by the City Engineer.
         (f)   Soil testing to determine the ability of the proposed
subdivision to support development.
         (g)   The limitation of development on slopes steeper than three to
one (3:1).
         (h)   Structure conformance to the natural limitations presented by
the topography and soil so as to create the least potential of soil erosion, as
determined by the City Engineer.
      (3)   Subdivision review shall be coordinated with the requirements and
procedures for environmental assessment and impact statements contained in the
zoning ordinance. Any mandatory environmental assessment worksheet or impact
statement as required by the State Environmental Quality Board regulations
shall be submitted as part of the application for preliminary plat approval.
   (B)   Tree preservation. The following process for preserving significant
trees shall be required of subdividers. Subdividers shall preserve, where
feasible, all healthy trees of significant value even if the trees are less
than six inches in diameter.
      (1)    Definitions. The following words and terms, whenever they occur in
this section, are defined as follows:
         (a)    DIAMETER. The measurement of a tree's trunk measured four and
one-half feet above the ground.
         (b)    DRIP LINE. The farthest distance away from the trunk of a tree
that rain or dew will fall directly to the ground from the leaves or branches
of the tree or one foot per one inch of diameter, whichever is greater.
         (c)    SIGNIFICANT TREE. A healthy tree measuring six inches in
diameter or greater.
         (d)    TREE CERTIFICATION. A certified inventory of trees on the site
after work is complete listing all trees and their final disposition, which is
signed by a licensed forester or landscape architect.
         (e)    TREE PRESERVATION PLAN. A plan and inventory certified by a
forester or landscape architect indicating all of the significant trees and
their locations in the proposed development or on the lot. The tree
preservation plan shall include the size, species, tag numbers, and location of
all significant trees proposed to be saved and removed on the area of
development, and the measures proposed to protect the significant trees to be
saved.
         (f)    TREE PROTECTION. Snow fencing or polyethylene laminar safety
netting placed at the drip line of the significant trees to be preserved. The
tree protection measures shall be shown on tree preservation plan drawings and
remain in place until all grading and construction activity is terminated.
      (2)   Subdivider responsibilities. Subdividers shall:
         (a)   Prepare a tree preservation plan. Such plan shall be
superimposed on the grading plan, if any.
         (b)   Ensure the tree preservation plan is followed during the plan
development including any mass grading.
      (3)   The tree preservation plan must be certified by a forester or
landscape architect. The forester or landscape architect shall indicate on the
plan the following items:
         (a)   Graded areas and proposed grades.
         (b)   Size, species, tag numbers, and location of all significant
trees.
         (c)   Identification of all significant trees proposed to be saved and
significant trees proposed to be removed.
         (d)   Measures proposed to protect significant trees shall include,
but are not limited to:
            1.   Installation of snow fencing or polyethylene- laminar safety
netting at the drip line.
            2.   Placing fill against the trunk of the tree, on the root crown,
and under the drip line of the tree shall be prohibited.
            3.   Installation of erosion control measures.
            4.   Prevention of change in soil chemistry due to concrete washout
and leakage or spillage of toxic materials such as fuels or paints.
            5.   Pruning of oak trees must not take place from April 15 through
July 1. If wounding of oak trees occurs, a nontoxic tree wound dressing must be
applied immediately. Excavators must have a nontoxic tree wound dressing with
them on the development site.
      (4)   During preliminary plat review, the tree preservation plan will be
reviewed according to the best available layout to preserve significant trees
and the efforts of the subdivider to mitigate damage to significant trees.
      (5)   The subdivider shall provide a financial guarantee as part of the
development contract in an amount necessary to guarantee replacement of all
significant trees which were to have been saved but were actually destroyed or
damaged.
      (6)    After grading has been completed and streets and utilities
installed, the forester or landscape architect shall:
         (a)   Certify in writing to the city the status of all trees indicated
as save trees in the approved plan.
         (b)   Certify in writing to the city whether tree protection measures
were installed.
         (c)   Certify the status of any remove designated trees that were
saved.
      (7)   If a significant tree indicated to be saved on the tree
preservation plan is destroyed or damaged, tree replacement as required by this
chapter will be enforced by the city.
      (8)   The financial security required in division (5) above will be
released upon certification in writing by the forester or landscape architect
indicating the tree protection measures were installed on graded lots and tree
replacement is completed, if necessary;
      (9)    Removal of tree preservation measures shall require written
approval from the City Engineer. Tree preservation measures shall not be
removed from the site until the City Engineer has approved the grading as built
plans for a mass graded site nor prior to the release of financial securities
held by the city.
      (10)   Tree Replacement Policy. Subdividers shall be required to replace
the significant trees which were indicated on the tree preservation plan to be
saved but ultimately were destroyed or damaged. The subdivider and builder
shall be required to replace each of the significant trees destroyed or damaged
with two replacement trees. Replacement trees must consist of nursery stock and
be no less than the following sizes:
         (a)   Deciduous trees. No less than two and one-half-inches in
diameter.
         (b)   Coniferous trees. No less than six feet high.
      (11)   Replacement trees shall be species similar to the trees which were
destroyed or damaged and shall comply with the requirements of §
152.10.
      (12)   Replacement trees shall not be placed on easements or street
rights of way. The city shall determine the locations of tree replacement for
subdivider's tree plans. Street trees shall not be less than 80 feet apart with
a minimum of one per lot. They shall be placed six to 20 feet inside the
property line and not in the boulevard.
§ 156.008 SOLAR ACCESS PLANNING.
   All new subdivisions should be designed to accommodate extensive use of
passive and active solar energy systems with special attention given to street,
lot and building orientation.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.009 Public sites and open space
Missing Text
§ 156.010 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   Upon receiving a report from the Planning Commission, the City Council may
grant a variance from the provisions of these regulations in the case of a
planned unit development, as defined in the zoning ordinance, provided that the
City Council shall find that the proposed development is fully consistent with
the purpose and intent of this chapter. This provision is intended to provide
the necessary flexibility for new land planning and land development trends and
techniques.
§ 156.011 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   In the case of a subdivision resulting in three or less parcels,
situated in a locality where conditions are well defined, the City Council may
exempt the subdivider from complying with some of the requirements of this
chapter.
      (1)   In the case of a request to subdivide a lot which is a part of a
recorded plat, or where the subdivision is to permit the adding of a parcel of
land to an abutting lot or to create not more than three new lots, and the
newly created property lines will not cause any resulting lot to be in
violation of this chapter or the zoning ordinance, the division may be approved
by the City Council after submission of a survey by a registered land surveyor
showing the original lot and the proposed subdivision.
      (2)   The newly created parcels shall meet all requirements of the zoning
ordinance.
      (3)   Topographic data at two-foot contour intervals, driveway access
points, drainage plans and soil tests for the installation of an on-site septic
system shall be submitted for minor subdivision review.
      (4)   A certificate of survey shall be prepared by a registered land
surveyor showing the boundaries of the newly created lots.
      (5)   Prior to approval of a minor subdivision, the City Council reserves
the right to require the dedication of streets, utility easements or public
park land or cash in lieu of land.
      (6)   A maximum of three lots in a five-year period are permitted
utilizing the minor subdivision procedure.
      (7)   In cases where the new lot and resulting lots created exceed 20
acres and have 500 feet of frontage on a public road, subdivision approval is
not required.
   (B)   Any proposed minor subdivision which includes land abutting upon any
existing or established trunk highway or proposed highway which has been
designated by a centerline order filed in the office of the County Recorder
shall first be presented to the Commissioner of Transportation for their
written comments and recommendations.
      (1)   Where any minor subdivision includes land abutting upon an existing
or established county or county state aid highway, it shall first be submitted
to the County Engineer for their written comments and recommendations.
      (2)   Minor subdivision involving both a trunk highway and a highway
under county jurisdiction shall be submitted to the Commissioner of
Transportation and the County Highway Engineer. Plats shall be submitted for
review at least 30 days prior to the city taking final action on the minor
subdivision. The Commissioner of Transportation and/or the County Highway
Engineer shall submit the written comments and recommendations to the city
within 30 days after receipt by them of such a plat. Final action on such plat
by the city shall not be taken until after these required comments and
recommendations have been received or until the 30-day period has elapsed.
      (3)   A legible preliminary drawing or print of a proposed minor
subdivision shall be acceptable for purposes of review by the Commissioner of
Transportation or the County Highway Engineer. To such drawing or print there
shall be attached a written statement describing:
         (a)   The outlet for and means of disposal of surface waters from the
proposed subdivided area;
         (b)   The land use designation or zoning category of the proposed
subdivided area;
         (c)   The locations of ingress and egress to the proposed subdivided
area; and
         (d)   A preliminary site plan for the proposed subdivided area, if one
has been prepared.
      (4)   Failure to obtain the written comments and recommendations of the
Commissioner of Transportation or the County Highway Engineer shall in no
manner affect the title to the land included in the plat or the platting of
said lands. A certificate or other evidence shall be required to or upon the
plat for filing in the office of the County Recorder or Registrar of Titles as
to the submission of or the obtaining of such written comments and
recommendations. The city shall provide the certificate or other evidence to
the County Recorder or Registrar of Titles.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.012 RESUBDIVISION.
   In the case of a request to divide a lot which is a part of a recorded plat,
where the division is to permit the adding of a parcel of land to an abutting
lot or to create two lots, and the newly created property line will not cause
the other remaining portion of the lot to be in violation with this chapter or
the zoning ordinance, the division may be approved by the City Council after
submission of a survey by a registered land surveyor showing the original lot
and the proposed subdivision.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.013 LAND DIVISION.
   (A)   In any case where the division of land into two or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building improvement is not
specifically provided for in the provision of these regulations, a description
of such land division shall be filed with the City Clerk-Administrator. No
building permit shall be issued for any construction, enlargement, alteration
or repair, demolition or moving of any building or structure on any lot or
parcel resulting from such division, until such division has been approved by
the City Council. Prior to the consideration of such division by the City
Council, it shall require that a certified survey be submitted.
   (B)   In cases where adjoining contiguous property owners wish to exchange
or otherwise divide land with the intent of enlarging one of the parcels and as
a result of such division neither parcel will be non-conforming in accordance
with the zoning ordinance, approval must be obtained from the City Council
following the minor subdivision process. Some of the requirements for minor
subdivision approval may be waived, however, the newly acquired land must be
combined on the deed for recording purposes as the remainder of the owner's
property.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.014 REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS.
   All registered land surveys shall be filed subject to the same procedure as
required for the filing of a plat for platting purposes. The standards and
requirements set forth in this chapter shall apply to all registered land
surveys.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.015 METES AND BOUNDS.
   No subdivision of real property in which the divided tract is described by
metes and bounds shall be permitted, unless all tracts meet the following
standards:
   (A)   Each lot, located in a shoreland area or containing a wetland area
must be a minimum of five acres in size; and all other lots must be a minimum
of two and one-half acres in size;
   (B)   Each Lot, part of a minor subdivision on parcels at least 20 acres in
area with no less than 500 feet of frontage on a public road;
   (C)   Certification of public road access;
   (D)   All roads must be identified on the surveyor's drawing;
   (E)   Sufficient suitable area for the installation of two standard on-site
sewage treatment systems;
   (F)   A registered surveyor's drawing accompanies the document creating the
subdivision for recording, as required by this Chapter; and
   (G)   The surveyor's drawing contains the following form for signature by
the property owner: I hereby certify that the subdivided property described in
this survey meets the city requirements for public road access and sewage
treatment systems.
§ 156.017 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may grant a variance in any particular case
where the subdivider can show that by reason of the exceptional topography or
other physical conditions the strict compliance to this chapter could cause an
exceptional and undue hardship on the enjoyment of a substantial property
right. Such relief may be granted provided there is no detriment to the public
welfare and no impairment of intended purpose of this regulation. The Planning
Commission may permit a variance therefrom upon such conditions as it may
prescribe consistent with the general purposes of this chapter and the intent
of this and all other applicable State and local regulation.
   (B)   Application for any such variance shall be made in writing by the
subdivider at the time when the plat is filed for consideration.
      (1)   Such application shall state fully all facts relied upon by the
subdivider, and shall be supplemented with maps, plans or other additional data
which may aid the Board of Adjustment and Appeals in the analysis of the
proposed project.
      (2)   Such variances shall be considered at the next regular meeting held
by the Board of Adjustment and Appeals.
      (3)   The plans for such development shall include any covenants,
restrictions or other legal provisions necessary to guarantee the full
achievement of the proposed plat.
      (4)   Any variance or modifications thus granted shall be recorded and
entered in the minutes setting forth the reasons for granting the variance.
   (C)   Appeals. The Planning Commission shall hear and decide appeals from
and review any order, requirements, decisions or determinations made by any
city Administrative Officer charged with enforcing any provision of this
chapter.
§ 156.018 SECURITY INTEREST.
   Creation of a security interest in a portion of a parcel less than the
entire parcel does not entitle the property to subdivision even in the event of
foreclosure of the security interest, unless otherwise approved by the City
Council and the parcel is in conformance with this chapter and the zoning
ordinance.
§ 156.019 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for any construction, enlargement,
alteration or repair, demolition or moving of any building or structure on any
lot or parcel until all the requirements of this chapter have been fully met.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued for any structure on any parcel of
land less than 20 acres in area and having a width of less than 500 feet on an
improved public road until a subdivision has been approved by the City Council
in accordance with the regulations of this chapter and the zoning ordinance and
the parcel is recorded with the County Recorder.
   (C)    When a conveyance is made by metes and bounds, no building permit
shall be issued until a survey is submitted and the parcel is recorded with the
County Recorder's office. A survey is not required for parcels in excess of 20
acres.
MINIMUM PLAT DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 156.035 CONFORMITY WITH THE COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The proposed subdivision shall conform to the comprehensive development plan
and policies as adopted by the city.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.037 STREETS.
   (A)   Proposed streets shall conform to the state road and county highway
plans or preliminary plans as have been prepared, adopted and/or filed as
prescribed by law.
   (B)   Streets shall be logically related to the topography so as to produce
usable lots and reasonable grades.
   (C)   Access shall be given to all lots and portions of the tract in the
subdivision, and to adjacent unsubdivided parcels unless the topography clearly
indicates that such connection is not feasible. Reserved strips and land-locked
areas shall not be created.
   (D)   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provisions
for the appropriate continuation of the existing streets in adjoining areas.
   (E)   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, but may be subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in a new subdivision shall make provision for the proper
projection of streets into adjoining areas by carrying the new streets to the
boundaries of the new subdivision at appropriate locations. Streets must be
rough graded or documented that grading can be accomplished within the right-
of-way. Where new roads extend existing adjoining roads, their projections
shall be at the same or greater width, but in no case, less than the minimum
required width.
   (F)   Minor streets shall be laid out to discourage their use by through
traffic. Thoroughfares shall be reserved for through traffic by providing
marginal access streets, interior streets for serving lots, or other means.
   (G)   Half or partial streets will not be permitted, except where essential
to reasonable subdivision of a tract in conformance with the other requirements
and standards of this chapter and where, in addition, satisfactory assurance
for dedication of the remaining part of the street can be secured.
   (H)   Wherever a tract to be subdivided adjoins an existing half, or partial
street, the part of the street within such tract shall be platted.
   (I)   Dead-end streets shall be prohibited, except as stubs to permit future
street extension into adjoining tracts, or when designed as cul-de-sac streets.
   (J)   Private streets and reserve strips shall be prohibited and no public
improvements shall be approved for any private street. All streets shall be
dedicated for public use except in cluster developments or planned unit
developments.
   (K)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or planned major
thoroughfare or a railroad right-of-way, a street approximately parallel to and
on each side of such thoroughfare and right-of-way may be required for adequate
protection of residential properties and separation of through and local
traffic. Such service streets shall be located at a distance from the major
thoroughfare or railroad right-of-way suitable for the appropriate use of the
intervening land, as for park purposes in residential districts, or for
commercial and industrial purposes in appropriate districts. Such distances
shall also be determined with due regard for the requirements of approach
grades and future grade separations.
   (L)   The street arrangements shall not be such as to cause hardship to
owners of adjoining property in platting their own land and providing
convenient access to it.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.038 CUL-DE-SAC STREETS.
   (A)   Cul-de-sac streets, permanently designed as such, shall not exceed 600
feet in subdivisions in which lots are less than two and one-half acres in
size. In subdivisions where lots are two and one-half acres in size or greater,
cul-de-sacs shall not exceed one-quarter mile in length. A variance may only be
granted to this requirement if it can be clearly shown that by reason of
unfavorable land form, or the irregular shape of the land from which the
subdivision is being made, a normal street pattern cannot be established, or
that land would be wasted by not granting such a variance. Lots with frontage
at the end of the cul-de-sac shall have a minimum of 60 feet of road frontage
and meet the lot width requirement at the building setback line for the zoning
district in which the property is located.
   (B)   Unless future extension is clearly impractical or undesirable, the
turnaround right-of-way shall be placed adjacent to a property line and a
right-of-way of the same width as the street shall be carried to said property
line in such a way as to permit future extension of the street into the
adjoining tract. At such time as such a street is extended, the acreage covered
by the turnaround outside the boundaries of the extended street shall revert in
ownership to the property owner fronting on the temporary turnaround. To assure
such streets can be constructed according to this code, the street shall be
rough graded or typical sections shall be submitted and approved by the City
Engineer.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.039 STREET DESIGN.
   (A)   All construction of roads dedicated for public use shall be in
compliance with the Minnesota Department of Transportation State Aid Design
Standards for Roads as well as the following minimum standards. In the case of
conflict between provisions of this subchapter and the Minnesota Department of
Transportation State Aid Design Standards for Roads, the strictest provisions
shall apply.
   (B)   Minimum widths. Minimum right-of-way widths and pavement widths (face
to face of curb) for each type of public street or road shall be as follows:
Type of Street Right-of-Way Width Roadway Width Including Shoulders
Type of Street            Right-of-Way Width        Roadway Width Including
                                                    Shoulders
Collector                 80 feet minimum           44 feet
Commercial/industrial     80 feet minimum           44 feet
street
Cul-de-sac                120 feet diameter minimum 100 feet diameter minimum
                                                    traveled surface
Local street              60 feet minimum           32 feet
Minor arterial            120 feet minimum          As determined by traffic
                                                    needs
Alley - Industrial or     24 feet                   20 feet
commercial
Alley - Residential (one- 20 feet                   16 feet
way)
Alley - Residential (two- 20 feet                   20 feet
way)
 
   (C)   All dedicated roadways have a bituminous surface.
   (D)   Existing street with inadequate width. Where a subdivision abuts or
contains an existing street or inadequate width, sufficient additional width
shall be provided to meet the above standards.
   (E)   Additional width. Additional right-of-way and roadway widths may be
required to promote public safety and convenience when special conditions
require it or to provide parking space in areas of intensive use.
   (F)   Restriction of access. Access of local streets onto state, county
state aid highways and county highways shall be discouraged at intervals of
less than 500 feet.
   (G)   Street jog. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 150 feet
shall not be allowed.
   (H)   Deflection. When connecting street lines deflect from each other at
any one point by more than ten degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with
a centerline radius of not less than 200 feet.
   (I)   Grades. Centerline gradients shall be at least 0.5% and grades shall
not exceed 8%.
   (J)   Vertical curves. Different connecting street gradients shall be
connected with vertical curves. Minimum length, in fact, of these curves shall
be 30 times the algebraic difference in the percent of grade of the two
adjacent slopes.
   (K)   Angle of intersection. The angle formed by any intersecting of streets
shall not be less than 70 degrees with 90-degree intersections preferred.
   (L)   Size of intersection. Intersections of more than four corners shall be
prohibited.
   (M)   Corner radii. Roadways of street intersections shall be rounded by a
radius of not less than 15 feet. Roadways of alley-street intersections shall
be rounded by a radius of not less than six feet. Corners at the entrances of
the turn-around portions of the cul-de-sacs shall be rounded by a radius of not
less than 15 feet.
   (N)   Curb and gutter. Curb and gutter shall be included as part of the
required street surface improvement and shall thus be designed for installation
along both sides of all roadways for urban design.
   (O)   When necessary for drainage, ditches along the roadbed shall not be
less than two feet deep.
   (P)   Except in the case of a planned unit development, either a public or
private alley shall be provided in a block where commercially zoned property
abuts a major thoroughfare or a major street. Alleys in residential areas other
than those zoned for multiple-family use shall not be permitted.
   (Q)   All centerline gradients shall be at least 0.5% and shall not exceed
8%.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.040 PRIVATE STREETS.
   Private streets generally are not permitted. In planned unit developments
and cluster developments, private streets may be permitted provided the roads
are built to the same specification as public roads.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.042 SIDEWALK DESIGN.
   (A)   Widths. All sidewalk widths shall, when installed, conform to the
following minimum standards:
 
Classification                                 Width
Commercial areas                               10 feet
Industrial areas                               6 feet
Multiple-family area and public building sites 6 feet
Single-family area                             4 feet
 
   (B)   Grades. Sidewalks shall slope one-quarter inch per foot away from the
property line and the profile grade shall not exceed 8%.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.036 LAND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Land shall be suited to the purpose for which it is to be subdivided.
No plan shall be approved if the site is not suitable for purposes of the kind
proposed by reason of potential flooding, topography or adverse earth or rock
formations.
   (B)   Land subject to hazards to life, health or property shall not be
subdivided for residential purposes until all such hazards have been eliminated
or unless adequate safeguards against such hazards are provided by the
subdivision plan.
   (C)   Erosion and sedimentation control plans in accordance with the
technical standards and specifications of the Soil Conservation Service as
provided by the Water Conservation District Office, are required on slopes with
grades of 18% or steeper.
   (D)   Proposed subdivisions shall be coordinated with existing nearby
municipalities or neighborhoods so that the city as a whole may develop
harmoniously.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.043 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   Water supply. Extensions of the public water supply system shall, when
available, be designed so as to provide public water service to each lot.
   (B)   Sewage disposal. Extensions of the public sanitary sewer system shall,
when available, be designed so as to provide public sewer service to each lot.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.044 DRAINAGE.
   A complete and adequate drainage system design shall be required for the
subdivision and may include a storm sewer system or a system of open ditches,
culverts, pipes and catch basins and ponding areas, or both systems and
submitted to the City Engineer for approval.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.048 BLOCK DESIGN.
   (A)   Block length and width or acreage within bounding streets shall be
such as to accommodate the size of residential lots required in the area by the
zoning ordinance and to provide for convenient access, circulation control and
safety of street traffic.
   (B)   In residential areas, other than water frontage, blocks shall not be
less than 600 feet nor more than 1,800 feet in length measured along the
greatest dimension of the enclosed block area, unless minor variances are
necessitated by topography or conformance with an adjoining plat.
   (C)   In blocks over 900 feet long, ten-foot wide pedestrian crosswalks may
be required through the blocks in locations deemed necessary to public health,
convenience and necessity. Suitable paving and fencing shall be provided.
   (D)   Blocks for commercial and industrial areas may vary from the elements
of design contained in this section if the nature of the use requires other
treatment. In such cases, off-street parking for employees and customers shall
be provided along with safe and convenient limited access to the street system.
Space for off-street loading shall also be provided with similar access.
Extension of roads, railroad access right-of-way and utilities shall be
provided as necessary.
   (E)   Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two tiers of lots with a minimum
depth as required by zoning ordinance except adjoining a lake, stream, railroad
or thoroughfare or where one tier of lots is necessary because of topographic
conditions.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.049 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Side lot lines. Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles
to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines or radial to lake or
stream shores unless topographic conditions necessitate a different
arrangement.
   (B)   Frontage. Each lot shall front upon a public street.
   (C)   Area and width. No lot shall have less area or width than is required
by zoning regulations applying to the area in which is it located, except as
herein provided.
   (D)   Commercial and industrial lots. Lots designed for commercial or
industrial purposes shall provide adequate off-the-street service, loading and
parking facilities.
   (E)   Corner lots. Corner lots shall be platted at least 20 feet wider than
interior lots.
   (F)   Butt lots. Butt lots in any subdivision are to be discouraged. Where
such lots must be used to fit a particular type of design, they shall be
platted at least five feet wider than the average width of interior lots in the
block.
   (G)   Through or double frontage lots. Such lots shall not be permitted
except where such lots abut a thoroughfare or major highway. Such lots shall
have an additional depth of ten feet for screen planting along the rear lot
line.
   (H)   Water courses. Lots abutting upon a water course, drainageway, channel
or stream shall have an additional depth or width, as required to assure
building sites that are not subject to flooding.
   (I)   Lakeshore frontage. Lots with lakeshore frontage shall be designed so
that the lot lines extended shall maintain the closest approximation to
riparian right.
   (J)   Natural features. In the subdividing of any land, regard shall be
shown for all natural features, such as tree growth, water courses, historic
spots or similar conditions, which if preserved will add attractiveness and
stability to the proposed development.
   (K)   Lot remnants. All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after
subdividing of a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots, or a plan shown
as to future use rather than allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
   (L)   Access to major arterials. In the case where a proposed plat is
adjacent to a major or minor arterial there shall be no direct vehicular access
from individual lots to such streets and roads. In the platting of small tracts
of land fronting on limited access highways or thoroughfares where there is no
other alternative, a temporary entrance may be granted; as neighboring land
becomes subdivided and more preferable access arrangements become possible,
such temporary access permits shall become void. Driveway access on collector
streets must be a minimum of 300 feet apart and meet appropriate safety
standards.
   (M)   Political subdivision lines. No lot shall extend over a political
subdivision boundary. No building shall extend over a school district line.
   (N)   Large lot planning. In any area where lots are platted in excess of
24,000 square feet or 160 feet in width at the building setback line, a
preliminary resubdivision plan may be required showing a potential and feasible
way in which the lot or lots may be resubdivided in future years for more
intensive use on the land. The placement of buildings or structures upon such
lots shall allow for potential resubdivision.
ENGINEERING STANDARDS
§ 156.060 STREETS.
   (A)   Street grading. Streets shall be graded in accordance with a plan
approved by the City Engineer. In the case of an urban street design the
grading shall include the entire width of the right-of-way and shall provide a
boulevard section, in addition to the minimum pavement width.
   (B)   Street pavement. The design of street pavement for all streets covered
by this chapter shall be in accordance with the State Highway Department Road
Design Manual No. 5-291 for flexible pavements. The designed thickness of the
surfacing elements shall be in accordance with the flexible pavement design
standard for road classifications as shown below. However, a minimum of six
inches of class 5 and three and one half inches of bituminous pavement is
required. More stringent design may be required by the Engineer.
 
Classification              Pavement Design: Axle Load
Arterials, collector street As determined by traffic needs
Local streets               7 ton minimum
 
   (C)   Gravel surface. Gravel surfaces are not allowed.
   (D)   Soil tests. To determine subgrade soil classifications, soil samples
shall be collected and analyzed by a reputable testing laboratory. Reports of
the soil analysis shall be submitted to the Engineer with the pavement plans.
Soil samples shall be taken along the center line of the proposed road at
intervals not exceeding 300 feet.
   (E)   Curb and gutter. Concrete curb and gutter shall be constructed on both
sides of urban designed streets. The construction shall be in accordance with
the latest edition of the Minnesota Department of Transportation Standard
Specification for Highway Construction.
   (F)   Boulevards. All boulevards shall have six inches of top soil (black
dirt) placed on them and then be seeded or sodded.
   (G)   Sidewalks and pedestrian ways. All required walks shall be concrete
four inches thick placed on a four-inch gravel base or other standard
established by the City Engineer. Grades shall be as approved by the City
Engineer. Sidewalks shall be placed in the public right-of-way.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.061 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Trunk facilities. Where a larger size water main, sanitary sewer,
storm drain or similar facility is required to serve areas outside the
subdivision, the larger facility required must be constructed. Additional cost
is to be borne by the benefiting properties, and the assessments are to be
determined by the City Council.
   (B)   Sewer and water - urban areas.
      (1)   Sewer lines. No public sanitary sewer facilities shall be extended
which are not in conformance with the utility staging plan of the city's
comprehensive plan.
         (a)   Where trunk line sanitary sewer facilities are available, the
subdivider shall install sanitary sewers and connect such sanitary sewers to
such trunk line sewers. Extensions of the public sewer system shall be designed
to provide public sewer service to each lot.
         (b)   All sanitary sewers shall be inspected by the municipality by
means of televising, at the subdivider's expense, prior to their acceptance by
the municipality. In the event that such facilities are not available but, in
the opinion of the City Council, can be made available within a reasonable
period of time, such sewers and all necessary laterals extending from the main
sewer to the street curb shall be installed and capped for future connection as
service becomes available.
         (c)   Unless otherwise required, a sanitary sewer of eight-inch
polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe or approved equivalent shall be installed as the
minimum size, placed at grades approved by the City Engineer. Mains over eight
inches in size may be required, and the additional cost may be borne by the
city. Service wyes shall be four inches, rubber or plastic compression
         (a)   Extensions of the public water supply system shall, when
available, be designed to provide public water service to each lot.
         (b)   A minimum water main of eight-inch ductile iron pipe (DIP) or
other approved pipe shall be required. Mains over eight inches in size may be
required, and the additional cost may be borne by the city.
      (3)   House services. Each house shall be run from the main to the
property line where a cap or plug shall be placed until the service is extended
to the structure. A one-inch Type K copper water service, corporation cock,
curb box and stop, and four-inch standard weight case iron soil pipe sewer
service shall be the minimum requirements and may be placed in a common trench.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.065 STREET SIGNS.
   All street signs shall be provided and installed by the city at the expense
of the subdivider.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.066 UTILITIES LOCATION.
   When practicable and feasible, all utilities shall be placed underground.
All groundwork shall be completed prior to street surfacing. All utility lines
for telephone and electrical service shall be placed in rear line easements
when carried on overhead poles.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.067 INSPECTION.
   All required improvements shall be inspected by the City Engineer during
construction at the expense of the subdivider.
Penalty, see §
156.999
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
§ 156.080 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   Prior to the approval of a plat by the City Council, the subdivider shall
have agreed, in the manner set forth below, to install, in conformity with
approved construction plans and in conformity with all applicable standards and
ordinances, the following improvements on the site. All required improvements
shall be installed by the subdivider except that the city reserves the right to
elect to install all or part of the improvements required under the provisions
of this title pursuant to M.S. Ch 429, as it may be amended from time to time.
If the city elects to install the improvements the city may require the
developer to post a cash escrow or letter of credit guaranteeing payment of the
assessments.
   (A)   Survey monuments. All subdivision boundary corners, block and lot
corners, road intersection corners and points of tangency and curvature shall
be marked with survey monuments meeting the minimum requirements of state law.
All U.S., state, county and other official bench marks, monuments or
triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in
precise position unless a relocation is approved by the controlling agency.
   (B)   Roads. All roads shall be improved in accordance with the road design
standards as specified in the Chapter.
      (1)   Trees and boulevard sodding shall be planted in conformance with
the standards and specifications as required by the City Council
      (2)   Street signs of the design approved by City Council shall be
installed at each street intersection.
      (3)   Driveway approaches of a standard design or pedestrian pathways as
may be requiring by the City Council shall be installed.
      (4)   Street lighting fixtures as may be required by the City Council
shall be installed.
   (C)   Grading. The full width of the right-of-way of each street and alley
dedicated in the plat shall be graded for an urban design roadway.
   (D)   Pavement. All streets and alleys shall be improved with concrete or
bituminous surface except as may be approved by action of the City Council.
   (E)   Curb and gutter. Along both sides of an urban designed street, curb
and gutter shall be installed. Concrete curb and gutter is recommended,
however, bituminous curbing would be permitted if approved by the City Council.
   (F)   Sidewalks. These may be required along both sides of all streets in
areas where residential density equals or exceeds three dwelling units per net
acre of residentially used land or in commercial areas.
   (G)   Water supply.. In the case where mains from a public water system are
available, the subdivider shall be required to install water mains in the plat
and connect the same to such public water system. In other cases, individual
wells shall be used, either shall be provided in accordance with state and city
regulations.
   (H)   Public sanitary sewer. In all cases where trunk line sanitary sewer
facilities are available, the subdivider shall be required to install sanitary
sewers in the plat and connect the same to such trunk line sewers. If such
facilities are not available but it is expected they will be within five years,
the City Council may require that such sewers, together with all necessary
laterals extending from the main sewer to the street curb shall be installed
and capped for future connection as service becomes available. In that event
the subdivider may also install on-site disposal units provided they are so
located as to permit easy and the least expensive connection to the sewer when
it becomes available and usable in accordance with the city sanitary sewer
ordinance, the State Department of Health, and the State Pollution Control
Agency. Where such on-site units are installed, the subdivider shall provide
underground plumbing to extend three feet beyond the footing which plumbing
shall be plugged. The area around the stack shall be scored so that the septic
tank line can be disconnected and connection can be made with the public
sanitary sewer system. Either shall be provided in accordance with state and
city regulations.
      (1)    Any subdivision or lot not provided with off-site sewer facilities
shall be subject to soil and percolation tests to determine whether the lot
size proposed will meet minimum standards of health and sanitation due to
limitations of soils as shown on existing soils maps. The Lot Area and
topography must be such that it will accommodate an adequate disposal system to
serve the residence for the estimated unsewered years, as determined by the
City Council. Such test shall be made at the expense of the subdivider, and a
sketch map shall be submitted to identify the specific locations where tests
were made. Two soil borings shall be performed on each proposed lot by a
certified soil tester. Additional testing may be required if serious
limitations for the installation of an on-site septic system are found.
   (I)   Drainage facilities. Such facilities and easements shall be installed
as will adequately provide for the drainage of surface waters; a storm sewer
system may be required. Drainage way easements or land dedication may be
required when such easements or land is needed in the public interest for
purposes of floodplain management, proper drainage, prevention of erosion,
pedestrian access to water bodies, or other public purpose. If there is a
watershed district, that Board must approve all surface water drainage.
      (1)   When possible, existing natural drainageways, wetlands and
vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter and retain
stormwater runoff before discharge to public waters.
      (2)   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that will
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion potential
and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be stabilized and
protected as soon as possible and facilities or methods used to retain sediment
on the site.
      (3)   When development density, topographic features, and soil runoff
using natural features, and vegetation, various types of constructed facilities
such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes, waterways and
ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs using surface drainage,
vegetation and infiltration rather than buried pipes and man-made materials and
facilities.
      (4)   If there is a watershed district, that Board must approve all
surface water drainage.
   (J)   Landscaping. All developments shall be landscaped with a combination
of overstory trees, understory trees, shrubs, flowers and ground cover
materials. All areas not covered by buildings, streets, sidewalks, parking
lots, driveways or similar hard surface materials shall be covered with sod or
an equivalent ground cover approved by the city. This requirement shall not
apply to site areas retained in a natural state. All new landscape trees and
shrubs must meet the American Standard for Nursery Stock and American National
Standard relating to planting guidelines, quality of stock and appropriate
sizing of the root ball. Landscape trees must be balled and burlapped or moved
from the growing site by tree spade. Deciduous trees will be not less than one
and one quarter inches but not more than three inches caliper for balled and
burlapped trees, and not less than three inches but not more than six inches
caliper for spade-moved trees. Coniferous trees will not be less than six feet
in height but no more than eight feet for balled and burlapped trees, and not
less than eight feet in height but not more than fourteen feet for spade-moved
coniferous trees. The city may allow larger balled and burlapped or spade moved
trees if these trees are accompanied with a three year guarantee.
   (K)   Erosion and sediment control. The development shall conform to the
natural limitations presented by topography and soil so as to create the least
potential for soil erosion. If determined necessary by the City Engineer, the
subdivider shall be required to submit an erosion and sediment control plan.
Erosion and sediment control measures shall be consistent with best management
practices (BMPs) for erosion and sedimentation control as specified in the
"Minnesota Stormwater Manual" (MPCA, 2005), as amended, and shall be sufficient
to retain sediment on site. Erosion and sediment controls shall meet the
standards for the general permit authorization to discharge stormwater
associated with construction activity under the national pollutant discharge
elimination system/state disposal system permit program permit MN Rl00001
(NPDES general construction permit) issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency, as amended. Final stabilization of the site must be completed in
accordance with the NPDES construction permit requirements.
   (L)   Miscellaneous facilities. Tree planting, street name signs, traffic-
control signs, oversized utility trunk lines, pedestrian ways and other
improvements may be required.
   (M)   It is hereby the announced policy of the city that full and complete
utility systems be installed in all needed areas as soon as is practicable and
feasible. Accordingly, the city shall proceed as soon as it is practicable
after final approval of a subdivision with installation within the subdivision
of such improvements as may be determined to be necessary. In the event of
small subdivisions or in subdivisions in which development may proceed slowly,
or in other events in which the construction of surfaced streets, sidewalks,
utility lines or other improvements is clearly not feasible immediately
following the approval of the plat, the City Council may elect to commence
assessment proceedings, utilize funds of a cash escrow agreement or otherwise
move to finance and install improvements when the subdivision is developed to
the point of warranting the improvements. Such improvements are required in
order to provide greater assurance of public health, assure reliability of
water supply, provide for economy of installation, provide more effective fire
fighting through hydrants, and otherwise protect the public health, safety,
convenience and general welfare.
§ 156.081 PAYMENT FOR INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The required improvements as listed elsewhere are to be furnished and
installed at the sole expense of the subdivider. However, if the cost of an
improvement would by general policy be assessed only in part to the improved
property and the remaining cost paid out of general tax levy, provision may be
made for the payment of a portion of the cost by the city. Further, if any
improvement installed within the subdivision will be of substantial benefit to
lands beyond the boundaries of the subdivision, provision may be made for
causing a portion of the cost of the improvements, representing the benefit to
such lands, to be assessed against the same. In such a situation, the
subdivider will be required only to pay for such portion of the whole cost of
said improvement as will represent the benefit to the property within the
subdivision.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.082 AGREEMENT PROVIDING FOR THE INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to the installation of any required improvements and prior to
approval of the plat, the subdivider shall enter into a Development Agreement
in writing with the city requiring the subdivider to furnish and construct said
improvements at their sole cost and in accordance with plans and specifications
and usual contract conditions. This shall include provisions for final design
and supervision of details of construction by the City Engineer and shall grant
to the Engineer authority to correlate the work to be done under said contract
by any subcontractor authorized to proceed thereunder and with any other work
being done or contracted by the city in the vicinity. The agreement shall
require the subdivider to make an escrow deposit or, in lieu thereof, to
furnish a performance bond, the amount of the deposit or penal amount of the
bond to be equal to 125% of the Engineer's estimate of the total cost of the
improvements to be furnished under the contract, including the cost of
inspection. On request of the subdivider, the contract may provide for
completion of part or all of the improvements covered thereby prior to
acceptance of the plat. In such event the amount of the deposit or bond may be
reduced in a sum equal to the estimated cost of improvements so completed prior
to the acceptance of the plat. The time for connection of the work and the
several parts thereof shall be determined by the City Council upon
recommendation of the Engineer after consultation with the subdivider. It shall
be reasonable with relation to the work to be done, the seasons of the year,
and proper correlation with construction activities in the plat and
subdivision.
   (B)   No subdivider shall be permitted to start work on any other
subdivision without special approval of the City Council if they have
previously defaulted on work or commitments.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.083 FINANCIAL GUARANTEE.
   The financial guarantee required as part of the Development Agreement shall
be one of the following:
   (A)   Escrow deposit. A cash escrow deposit may be made with the City
Treasurer in a sum equal to 125% of the total costs, as estimated by the
Engineer, of all the improvements to be furnished and installed by the
subdivider pursuant to the Development Agreement. The total costs shall include
costs of inspection by the City Engineer. The city shall be entitled to
reimburse itself out of such deposit for any cost or expense incurred by the
city for completion of the work in case of default of the subdivider under such
contract, and for any damages sustained on account of any branch thereof.
   (B)   Performance bond. The subdivider may furnish a performance and payment
bond with corporate surety, in a penal sum equal to 125% of the total cost, as
estimated by the Engineer, of all the improvements to be furnished and
installed by the subdivider pursuant to the Development Agreement. The total
costs shall include costs for inspection by the City Engineer. The bond shall
be approved as to form by the City Attorney and filed with the City Clerk-
Administrator.
   (C)   Letter of credit. The subdivider may deposit with the city, from a
state or federally chartered bank or savings and loan association, insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, that has an office in the state of
Minnesota or a subsidiary of such bank or savings association with an office in
the state of Minnesota subject to the approval of the City Council, an
irrevocable letter of credit which shall certify the following:
      (1)   The creditor does guarantee funds in an amount equal to 125% of the
total cost as estimated by the City Engineer, or completing all required
improvements;
      (2)   In the case of failure on the part of the subdivider to complete
the specified improvements within the required time period, the creditor shall
pay to the city immediately, and without further action, such funds as are
necessary to finance the completion of those improvements, up to the limit of
credit stated in the letter; and
      (3)   This letter of credit may not be withdrawn, or reduced in amount,
until released by the City Council.
   (A)   (3) The city shall require of a subdivider submission of a warranty/
maintenance bond in the amount equal to the original cost of the improvements
or such lesser amount as agreed to by the City Engineer. The required warranty
period for materials and workmanship from the utility contractor installing
public sewer and water mains shall be two years from the date of final
acceptance or one year following final acceptance of the final bituminous
wearing surface as approved by the City Engineer. The required period for sod,
trees and landscaping is one growing season.
   (B)   No final plat shall be approved by the Council without first receiving
a report from the City Engineer that the improvements described therein
together with the agreements and documents required under this section, meet
the requirements of the city.
   (C)   No final plat shall be approved by the Council without first receiving
certification from the City Clerk-Administrator or Finance Officer that all
fees required to be paid to the city in connection with the plat have been paid
or that satisfactory arrangements have been made for payment.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.084 CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Construction plans for the required improvements conforming in all
respects with the standards and ordinances of the city shall be prepared at the
subdivider's expense by the City Engineer, and said plans shall contain their
certificate. Such plans together with the quantities of construction items
shall be prepared along with an estimate of the total costs of the required
improvement. Upon approval, such plans shall become a part of the required
contract. Two hard copies of the plans approved by the engineer be furnished to
the city to be filed as a public record.
   (B)   All required improvements on the site that are to be installed under
the provisions of this chapter shall be inspected during the course of
construction by the City Engineer with postconstruction record plans prepared
at the subdivider's expense, and acceptance by the city shall be subject to the
Engineer's certificate of compliance with the contract.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.085 IMPROVEMENTS COMPLETED PRIOR TO APPROVAL OF PLAT.
   Improvements within a subdivision which have been completed prior to
application for approval of the plat or execution of the contract for
installation of the required improvements shall be accepted as equivalent
improvements in compliance with the requirements only if the engineer shall
certify that they are satisfied that the existing improvements conform to
applicable standards.
§ 156.086 TRUNK FACILITIES.
   Improvements within a subdivision which have been completed prior to
application for approval of the plat or execution of the contract for
installation of the required improvements shall be accepted as equivalent
improvements in compliance with this chapter only if the City Engineer shall
certify that they are satisfied that the existing improvements conform to
applicable standards.
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.088 NON-CONFORMING USES, BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Definition of non-conforming uses, buildings and structures.
      (1)   NON-CONFORMING USE means any lawful use of land or any lawful use
of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this chapter, or
any other amendment thereto, which use does not conform with the regulations
for the district in which it is located after the effective date of this
chapter or such amendment.
      (2)   SUBSTANDARD BUILDING or SUBSTANDARD STRUCTURE means any building or
structure lawfully existing on the effective date of this chapter or any
amendment thereto which building or structure does not conform with the
regulations, including dimensional standards, for the district in which it is
located after the effective date of this chapter or such amendment.
   (B)   Preservation of non-conforming uses. Except as hereinafter provided in
this section, the lawful use of land or the lawful use of a building or
structure existing on the effective date of this chapter or
§ § 156.089 DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   As a condition of subdivision approval, subdividers shall dedicate a
portion of any proposed subdivision for conservation purposes or for public use
as parks, recreational facilities as defined and outlined in M.S. § 471.191,
playgrounds, trails, wetlands or open space; provided that the city may choose
to accept an equivalent amount in cash for part or all of the portion required
to be dedicated based on the fair market value of the land following the
criteria of M.S. § 462.358, Subd. 2b, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Land shall be reasonably suitable for its intended use and shall be at
a location convenient to the people to be served. Factors used in evaluating
the adequacy of proposed park and recreation areas shall include size, shape,
topography, geology, hydrology, tree cover, access and location. Land with
trash, junk, pollutants, flooding or wetlands and unwanted structures is
generally not acceptable.
   (C)   The Planning Commission, if the city has a Planning Commission, and
the City Council, shall determine the land and/or cash contribution
requirements for proposed subdivisions.
   (D)   Any increase in density of subdivisions shall be reviewed for
reconsideration of park land and/or cash contribution requirements.
   (E)   When a proposed park, playground, recreation area or other public
ground has been indicated in the city's official map or comprehensive plan and
is located in whole or in part within a proposed subdivision, it shall be
designated as such on the plat and shall be conveyed to the city such sites
shall be reserved and no action taken towards approval of a plan or plat for a
period not to exceed 90 days to allow the proper governmental agency the
opportunity to consider and take actions towards acquisition of such public
ground or park by purchase or other methods. If the subdivider elects not to
dedicate an area in excess of the land required hereunder for such proposed
public site, the city may consider acquiring the site through purchase or
condemnation.
   (F)   Land area conveyed or dedicated to the city shall not be used in
calculating density requirements of the city zoning ordinance and shall be in
addition to and not in lieu of open space requirements for planned unit
developments.
   (G)   Where private open space for park and recreation purposes is provided
in a proposed subdivision, these areas may be used for credit, at the
discretion of the City Council, against the land or cash dedication requirement
for park and recreation purposes, provided the City Council finds it is in the
public interest to do so.
   (H)   The dedication requirements are presumptively appropriate. A
subdivider may request a deviation from the presumptive requirements based upon
the anticipated impact of that particular subdivision. The request must be made
before final subdivision approval by the city.
   (I)   
      (a)   In residential subdivisions where a land dedication is required,
the following formula will be used to determine the dedication requirement:
 
Density:       Land Dedication
Units Per Acre Percentage
0                             2.5     10%
2.5                           4       11%
4+                            6       13%
6+                            8       15%
8+                            10      17%
10+                           17%-20%  
 
         (b)   In commercial or industrial subdivisions where a land dedication
is required, the following formula will be used to determine the dedication: 5%
of the gross area of land being platted.
   (J)   In lieu of land dedication the city may require cash fees established
pursuant to M.S. § 462.358, Subd. 2b, as it may be amended from time to time,
for commercial, industrial, multi-family dwelling units and single-family
dwelling units, in amounts established in a separate ordinance or in the
Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.03 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time.
   (K)   The city may elect to receive a combination of cash, land and
development of the land. The fair market value of the land the city wants and
the value of the development of the land shall be calculated. That amount shall
be subtracted from the cash contribution required by division (J) of this
section. The remainder shall be the cash contribution requirement.
   (L)   Fair market value shall be determined as of the time of final
subdivision approval in accordance with the following:
      (a)   The city and the developer may agree as to the fair market value;
or
      (b)   The fair market value may be based upon a current appraisal
submitted to the city by the subdivider at the subdivider's expense. The
appraisal shall be made by appraisers who are approved members of the SREA or
MAI, or equivalent real estate appraisal societies.
      (c)   If the city disputes such appraisal the city may, at the
subdivider's expense, obtain an appraisal of the property by a qualified real
estate appraiser, which appraisal shall be conclusive evidence of the fair
market value of the land.
   (M)   Planned developments with mixed land uses shall make cash and/or land
contributions in accordance with this section based upon the percentage of land
devoted to the various uses.
   (N)   Cash contributions are to be calculated at the time of final
subdivision approval. The council may require the payment at the time of final
subdivision approval or at a later time under terms agreed upon in the
development agreement. Delayed payment shall include interest at a rate set by
the city.
   (O)   Cash contributions shall be deposited in the park dedication fund and
shall only be used for the acquisition of land for the purposes set forth in
division (A) of this section, and the planning and development of land for such
purposes.
   (P)   Property being subdivided without an increase in the number of lots
shall be exempt from park and trail dedication requirements if similar
requirements were satisfied in conjunction with an earlier subdivision. If the
number of lots is increased, then the dedication shall be based on the
additional lots created.
§ 156.090 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   All plats approved under this chapter are approved for city purposes only
and shall not release the subdivider from any liability or obligation imposed
by Minnesota Statutes or Federal Law. In the event provision of this chapter
shall be found contrary to law by a Court of competent jurisdiction from whose
final judgment no appeal has been taken, such provision shall be considered
void. All other provisions of this chapter shall continue in full force and
effect as though the voided provision had never existed.
§ 156.091 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The division of a surveyed lot, parcel or tract for the purpose of
attachment to contiguous lots where no residual plot or lot or real property is
left unattached is exempted from the provisions of this chapter, as are
subdivisions conveying property to a public utility for such things as
substations, poles, towers, telephone booths, and the like.
   (B)   If the parcel can be described as a rectangular portion of a parcel of
the government rectangular survey system, a surveyor's drawing will not be
required.
   (C)   Metes and bounds subdivisions of less than five acres, as provided in
§
152.03(A), that will be permanently attached to an adjacent contiguous parcel
will be exempt from the minimum size requirements provided all other conditions
of this chapter are complied with.
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   Any firm, person or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter, or who sells, leases or offers for sale or lease any lot, block or
tract of land herewith regulated before all the requirements of this chapter
have been complied with shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof be subject to fine and/or imprisonment in accordance with Minnesota
Statute 609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be amended from time to time; and the cost of
prosecution may be added pursuant to Minn. Stat. §631.48. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 157: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
157.001   Title
   
157.002   Intent and purpose
   
157.003   Definitions
   
157.004   Application
   
157.005   Minnesota Accessibility Code
   
157.006   Contractor’s License Required
   
157.007   Manufactured Homes
   
157.008   Amateur Radio Support Towers
   
157.009   Non-Conforming Uses, Buildings and Structures
   
157.010   Compliance with Code
   
157.011   Supremacy and Effective Date
Administration
   
157.020   Administrator; duties
   
157.021   Consistency with State Law
   
157.022   Board of Appeals and Adjustments
   
157.023   Applications
   
157.024   Public Notice and Hearings
   
157.025   Final Actions
   
157.026   Notice of Decision
   
157.027   Land Use Permit Required
   
157.028   Conditional Use Permits
Zoning Districts, Permitted Uses and Dimensional Standards
   
157.040   Districts
   
157.041   Minimum requirements
   
157.042   Zoning district map
   
157.043   Uses in conservancy, agricultural, residential, commercial and
industrial districts
   
157.044   Floodplain Overlay District
   
157.045   Planned Unit Development Overlay District
   157.046   Airport Overlay District
   
157.047   St. Croix River Overlay District
   
157.048   Reserved
   157.049   Commercial Food Production Overlay District
   157.050   Mississippi River Overlay District
Design and Performance Standards, Restrictions
on Nuisance and Hazardous Activities
   
157.065   Minimum standards; purpose
   
157.066   Principal building
   
157.067   Accessory buildings and structures
   
157.068   Public convenience structures
   
157.069   Fences
   
157.070   Exterior storage
   
157.071   Environmental pollution
   
157.072   Screening
   
157.073   Landscaping
   
157.074   Reasonable maintenance required
   
157.075   Lighting, lighting fixtures and glare
   157.076   Parking
   
157.077   Off-Street loading and unloading areas
   
157.078   Traffic control
   
157.079   Storage of hazardous materials
   
157.080   Explosives
   157.081   Reserved.
   
157.082   Guest houses
   
157.083   Dwelling units in commercial and industrial districts
   
157.084   Drive-In business
   157.085   Radiation and electrical interference prohibited
   
157.086   Environmental nuisances
   
157.087   Miscellaneous nuisances
   
157.088   Property maintenance code
   
157.089   Coin operated machines
   
157.090   Swimming pools
   
157.091   Signs
   
157.092   Interim Uses and structures
   
157.093   Automobile sales and show rooms
   
157.094   Reserved
   
157.095   Manufactured homes
   
157.096   Manufactured home parks
   
157.097   Recreation vehicle or trailer regulations
   
157.098   Recreation Vehicle or trailer park regulations
   
157.099   Service stations
   
157.100   Apartments and other Multiple-family Uses
   
157.101   Townhouse developments
   
157.102   Cluster Developments
   
157.103   Shopping centers
   
157.104   Drainage
   
157.105   Land reclamation and land grading
   
157.106   Soil conservation plans
   
157.107   Mining
   
157.108   Agricultural operations
   
157.109   Access drives and access
   
157.110   Private roads
   
157.111   Tennis courts
   
157.112   Vegetative cutting
 
   
157.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.001 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the Lake St. Croix Beach Zoning Ordinance,
referred to herein as “this chapter.”
§ 157.002 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   General purposes. The general purposes of this chapter are to provide
for the orderly growth and renewal of the city, to protect and conserve its
natural resources, its ecological systems and its economic stability by
fostering appropriate land Use, so as to preserve and promote the public
health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Specific purposes. It is hereby determined by the City Council that in
order to accomplish the general purposes of this chapter as set forth in
division (A) above, it is necessary and proper to establish and enforce the
regulations contained in this chapter for the following specific purposes:
      (1)   To stage Development and Redevelopment to coincide with the
availability of necessary public services;
      (2)   To divide the City into districts, providing for and regulating
therein the location, construction, reconstruction, alteration and Use of
Buildings, Structures and land for residential, Business, Commercial,
Industrial and other specified Uses;
      (3)   To protect the character and maintain the stability of residential,
Business, Commercial and Industrial areas within the City, and prohibit Uses,
Buildings or Structures which are incompatible with the character of
Development in such areas;
      (4)   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access
to property;
      (5)   To limit congestion in public Streets and to foster public safety
and convenience in travel and transportation;
      (6)   To provide protection against fire, explosions, obnoxious fumes and
other hazards in the interest of public health, safety and comfort;
      (7)   To prevent environmental pollution;
      (8)   To prevent the destruction or improvident exploitation of City
resources;
      (9)   To preserve the value of land and buildings throughout the City;
      (10)   To provide for the gradual and equitable elimination of those Uses
of land, buildings and Structures, and of those buildings and Structures which
do not conform to the standards for the area in which they are located and
which may adversely affect the development and the value of property in such
areas;
      (11)   To provide for the condemnation of such non- conforming Buildings
or Structures and of land as is necessary or appropriate for the rehabilitation
of the area blighted thereby;
      (12)   To provide for the enforcement of this chapter and to define and
limit the powers and duties of the administrative officers and bodies
responsible therefor;
      (13)   To protect and preserve economically viable agricultural land; and
      (14)   To provide for the wise Use and conservation of energy resources.
   (C)   Interpretation and construction.
      (1)   Interpretation. In the application of this chapter, the provisions
thereof shall be interpreted to be the minimum requirements necessary to
accomplish the general and specific purposes of the chapter.
      (2)   Rules of construction. The words and phrases used in this chapter
shall be construed in their plain ordinary and usual sense, except that
technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law
shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (3)   Masculine, feminine or neuter. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, the use of either masculine, feminine or neuter gender shall include
the other genders.
      (4)   Singular or plural. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
the use of either singular or plural numbers shall include the other number.
      (5)   Past, present or future. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, the use of either past, present or future tense shall include the
other tenses.
      (6)   Joint authority. Words importing joint authority to three or more
Persons shall be construed as authority to a majority of such Persons.
      (7)   Computation of time. The time within which an act shall be done
shall be computed by excluding the first and including the last day. If the
last day is a Sunday or legal holiday, such date shall be excluded.
      (8)   Deputies. Whenever this chapter requires an act to be done, which
act may legally be done by an agent or employee as well as by the principal,
such requirement shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an
authorized agent or employee.
      (9)   Conjunctions. The words “or” and “and” may be read interchangeably
in situations where the context requires it.
      (10)   State rules of construction to apply. Unless clearly in conflict
with the provisions of this chapter or otherwise clearly inapplicable, rules of
construction established for the state by statute or case law shall apply in
the construction of this chapter.
      (11)   No consent or permit implied. Nothing contained in this chapter
shall be deemed to be a consent, license or permit to Use any property or to
locate, construct or maintain any Building, Structure or facility or to carry
on any trade, industry, occupation or activity.
      (12)   Provisions cumulative. Except as herein provided, the provisions
of this chapter are cumulative and in addition to the provisions of other laws
and ordinances, heretofore passed or which may be passed hereafter, governing
the same subject matter as this chapter.
§ 157.003 DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
ACCESSORY APARTMENT. A smaller secondary Dwelling Unit located within or
connected to a primary single family residential Structure built as a Single
family Dwelling, which secondary Dwelling includes provisions for sleeping,
cooking and sanitation independent of the principal Dwelling Unit. This
definition includes secondary Dwelling Units that have exterior entrances
separate from the principal Dwelling Unit and secondary Dwelling Units that are
accessed only through the principal Dwelling Unit. See Zoning Section 703.19
for additional details.
ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building, or a portion of the main building,
which is located on the same Lot as the principal building and the purpose of
which is clearly incidental to that of the principal building. (See §
157.067.)
ACCESSORY USE. A Use incidental or subordinate to the Principal Use or
Structure of the same Lot.
ADMINISTRATOR. The City Zoning Administrator.
AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A Structure on agricultural land as defined in FARM/
RURAL of this section, designed, constructed and used to house farm implements,
livestock or agricultural produce or products used by the Owner, lessee or
sublessee of the building and members of their immediate families, their
employees and Persons engaged in the pickup or delivery of agricultural produce
or products.
AGRICULTURAL USE. Use of land that consists of the production of horticulture
and nursery stock, fruit, vegetables, forage, grains, bees, apiary products and
raising domestic farm animals. This Use does not need to be the principal
source of income to be considered Agricultural Use.
ANIMALS, DOMESTIC PETS. Dogs, cats, birds and similar animals commonly kept in
a residence. Animals considered wild, exotic or non-domestic, such as bears,
lions, wolves, ocelots, and similar animals shall not be considered domestic
pets.
ANIMALS, DOMESTIC FARM. Cattle, hogs, horses, bees, sheep, goats, chickens and
other animals commonly kept for commercial food producing purposes.
ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measure used to compare differences in the production of
animal wastes which has a standard as the amount of waste produced on a regular
basis by a slaughter steer or heifer.
APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms with cooking facilities designed to be
occupied as a residency by a single family.
AREA, NET DEVELOPABLE. Those lands within a development parcel remaining after
the deletion of floodplains, wetlands, slopes greater than 12% and unbuildable
easements or rights-of-way.
ATTORNEY. The City Attorney.
AUTO OR MOTOR VEHICLE REDUCTION YARD. A Lot or Yard where one or more
unlicensed motor Vehicles, or the remains thereof, are kept for the purpose of
dismantling, wrecking, crushing, repairing, rebuilding, sale of parts, sale as
scrap, Storage or abandonment. (See also “Junk Yard”).
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. The replacement of any part or repair of any part which does
not require the removal of the engine head or pan, engine, transmission or
differential; incidental body and fender work, minor painting and upholstering
service when said service above stated is applied to passenger automobiles and
trucks not in excess of 7,000 pounds gross Vehicle weight.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION – (GAS STATION). A place where any motor fuel,
lubricating oil or grease for operating motor Vehicles is offered for sale to
the public and deliveries are made directly into motor Vehicles. This
definition includes greasing, oiling or sale of automobile accessories on the
premises. This definition also includes minor repairs and replacement of parts
and motor services to passenger automobiles and trucks not exceeding one and
one-half tons capacity. This definition shall not include major repair,
rebuilding or reconditioning of engines, motor Vehicles or trailers, collision
service, including body, frame or fender straightening or repair; overhaul,
painting or paint job, Vehicle steam cleaning or automatic car or Vehicle
washing devices.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE USES. Those Uses catering to the traveling public. These
include auto and truck laundry, Drive-In Business, service station, Repair
Garage, public garage, motel, Hotel, seasonal produce sales, motor Vehicle
sales, trailer sales and rental, boat sales, rental services and Restaurants.
BASEMENT. A portion of a building between floor and ceiling, located partly
above and partly below grade, and having one-half or less of its floor to
ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining ground. Earth sheltered
houses that meet all other requirements of the Building Code shall not be
considered Basements. A crawl space is a BASEMENT.
BOARDING HOUSE. A Building other than a motel or Hotel where, for compensation
and by pre-arrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging are provided for
three or more unrelated Persons, but not to exceed eight Persons.
BUILDING. Any Structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof supported
by columns, walls, or other means of support used or built for the shelter or
enclosure of any Person, animal or property of any kind. When any portion
thereof is completely separated from every other part thereof by area
separation, each portion of such Building shall be deemed as a separate
Building.
BUILDING CODE. The Minnesota State Building Code.
BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance between the grade level at the Building
line and the uppermost line of the roof. This excludes chimneys, antennas and
the like.
BUILDING OFFICIAL. The designated authority charged with the administration and
enforcement of the State Building Code.
BUILDING SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the Building or
Structure and the Lot line, right of way line, bluffline, or high water line.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line within a Lot parallel to a public right-of-way
line, a Side or Rear Lot line, a bluffline or a high water mark or line, behind
which Buildings or Structures must be placed from those lines.
BUSINESS. Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold, or where services are offered for compensation.
CARPORT. An automobile shelter having one or more sides open.
CELLAR. The portion of the Building having more than one-half of the clear
floor to ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
Underground Buildings that meet all other requirements of the Building Code
shall not be considered CELLARS.
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. See §
157.023.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. See §
157.027.
CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse with definite bed and banks to
confine and conduct continuously or periodically flowing water, including but
not limited to streams, rivers, creeks, ditches, drainageways, canals,
conduits, culverts, waterways, gulleys, ravines or washes; and including any
area adjacent thereto which is required to carry and discharge the regional
flood. (See
Chapter 152.)
CHANNEL FLOW. That water which is flowing within the limits of a Channel.
CHURCH. A Building, together with its Accessory Buildings and Uses, where
Persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which Building, together
with its Accessory Buildings and Uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship.
CITY. The governmental unit which has adopted this chapter, except where
otherwise indicated.
CLUB OR LODGE. A non-profit association or Persons who are bona fide members
paying annual dues, Use of premises being restricted to members and their
guests.
CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A pattern of Subdivision development which places Detached
houses, Duplexes or Townhouse units into compact groupings while providing a
network of commonly owned or dedicated open space.
COMMERCIAL. See §
157.043 for permitted Uses. The Principal Use of land or Buildings for the
sale, lease, rental or trade of products, goods and services and other
activities carried out for financial gain.
COMMERCIAL FOOD PRODUCING FARM OPERATIONS. See FARM/RURAL and §
157.108.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The policies, statements, goals and interrelated plans for
private and Public Land and water use, transportation and City facilities,
including recommendations for planned execution, documented in texts, ordinance
and maps which constitute the guide for the future development of the City or
any portion of the City.
CONDITIONAL USE. A land Use or development as defined by ordinance that may not
be appropriate generally, but may be allowed with appropriate restrictions as
provided by Official Controls upon a finding that certain conditions as
detailed in the zoning ordinance exist, the Use or development conforms to the
comprehensive land Use plan of the City and is compatible with the existing
neighborhood. The City may impose additional conditions in specific instances
to protect the health, safety, and welfare.
CONDOMINIUM. – An estate in real property consisting of an undivided interest
in common with other purchasers in a portion of a parcel of real property,
together with a separate interest in space in a residential Building.
COUNCIL. The Governing Body of the City.
CURB LEVEL. The grade elevation of the curb in front of the center of a
Building. Where no curb has been established, the City Engineer shall determine
a Curb Level or its equivalent for the purpose of this chapter.
DECIBEL. The unit of sound measured on the “A” weighing scale of a sound level
meter, set on slow response, the weighing characteristics of which are
specified in the Standards on Sound Level Meters of the USA Standards
Institute.
DEPTH OF LOT. The horizontal distance between the Frontage right-of-way line
and rear Lot line. On a Corner Lot, the side with the largest Frontage is its
DEPTH, and the side with the lesser Frontage is its Width.
DEPTH OF REAR YARD. The horizontal distance between the rear Building line and
the rear Lot line.
DISPOSAL AREA, ON-SITE SEWAGE TREATMENT. See
Chapter 52, Sanitary Sewer Disposal Ordinance.
DREDGING. The process by which soils or other surface materials, normally
transported by surface water erosion into a body of water, are removed for the
purpose of deepening the body of water.
DRIVE-IN. Any Use where products and/or services are provided to the customer
under conditions where the customer does not have to leave the car or where
service to the automobile occupants is offered regardless of whether service is
also provided within a Building.
DWELLING. A Building or one or more portions thereof occupied exclusively for
human habitation, but not including rooms in Hotels, motels, Nursing Homes,
Boarding Houses, nor trailers, tents, cabins or trailer coaches. (Also see
DWELLING UNIT.)
DWELLING – ATTACHED. A Dwelling which is joined to another Dwelling at one or
more sides by a party wall or walls.
DWELLING – DETACHED. A Dwelling which is entirely surrounded by open space on
the same Lot.
DWELLING – DUPLEX OR TWO-FAMILY. A residential Building containing two complete
Dwelling Units being Attached by common walls and each unit equipped with
separate sleeping. Cooking, eating, living, and sanitation facilities
DWELLING – MULTIPLE OR APARTMENT BUILDING. A residential Building, or portion
of a Building, containing three or more Dwelling Units served by a common
entrance.
DWELLING – SEASONAL. A residential Building not capable of year-round occupancy
due to non-winterized construction or inadequate non-conforming year-round On-
Site Sewage Treatment systems.
DWELLING – SINGLE. A residential Building containing one Detached Dwelling Unit
used exclusively for occupancy by one family.
DWELLING – TOWNHOUSE. A residential Building containing two or more Dwelling
Units with at least one common wall, each unit so oriented as to have all exits
directly to the out-of-doors.
DWELLING UNIT. A residential accommodation including complete kitchen and
bathroom facilities, permanently installed, which is arranged, designed, used
or intended for Use exclusively as living quarters for one family.
ENGINEER. The City Engineer.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES – GOVERNMENTAL USES, BUILDINGS AND STORAGE. Governmental
services such as office Buildings, garages, temporary open space, Open Storage
when not the Principal Use, fire and police stations, recreational areas,
training centers, correctional facilities or other essential Uses proposed by
federal, state, county, local, special districts and school districts, except
that schools shall not be permitted under this provision.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES – (PUBLIC UTILITY USES). Underground or overhead gas,
electrical, steam or water distribution systems; collection, communication,
supply or disposal system, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers,
pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants or other similar equipment and accessories; but not including
Buildings or transmission services.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES – (PUBLIC UTILITY USES, TRANSMISSION SERVICES, BUILDINGS AND
STORAGE). Transmission service such as electrical power lines of a voltage of
35 kv or greater, or bulk gas or fuel being transferred from station to station
and not intended for enroute consumption or other similar equipment and
accessories.
EXTERIOR STORAGE (INCLUDES OPEN STORAGE). The Storage of goods, materials,
equipment, manufactured products and similar items not fully enclosed by a
Building.
EXISTING LOT. A Lot or parcel of land which was of record as a separate Lot or
parcel in the office of the County Recorder or Registrar of Titles, on or
before 1974.
FAMILY. An individual, or two or more Persons each related by blood, marriage,
adoption or foster care arrangement, living together as a single housekeeping
unit, or a group of not more than four Persons not so related, maintaining a
common household, exclusive of servants.
FARM, RURAL. A Commercial food producing Use on ten or more contiguous acres
and is defined under a portion of the State Agricultural Property Tax Law
(Green Acres Law) § 273.111 Agricultural Property Tax, subd. 6, to wit: real
property shall be considered to be in Agricultural Use provided that annually
it is devoted to the production for sale of livestock, dairy animals, dairy
products, poultry and poultry products, fur bearing animals, horticultural and
nursery stock, fruit of all kinds, vegetables, forage, grains, bees, apiary
products.
FARM, SUBURBAN. A Suburban Farm is a non-Commercial food producing Use
primarily intended for the use of the residents, and usually on less than ten
contiguous acres. Suburban Agricultural Uses may include production of crops
such as fruit trees, shrubs, plants, flowers, vegetables and domestic pets.
FEED LOT. The place of housing or feeding of livestock or other animals for
food, fur, pleasure or resale purposes in Yards, Lots, pens, Buildings or other
areas not normally used for pasture or crops and in which substantial amounts
of Manure or related other wastes may originate by reason of such feeding of
animals.
FENCE. A partition, Structure, wall or gate erected as a dividing marker,
visual or physical barrier, or enclosure.
FILL. Any act by which soil, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any similar material
is deposited, placed, pushed or transported and shall include the conditions
resulting therefrom.
FINAL PLAT. A drawing or map of an approved Subdivision, meeting all
requirements of the Subdivision ordinance (see
Chapter 156), and in such form as required by the City for purposes of
recording.
FLOOR AREA. The gross area of the main floor of a residential Building measured
in square feet and not an attached Garage, breezeway or similar attachment.
FLOOR AREA – GROSS. The sum of the gross area of the various floors of a
Building measured in square feet. The Basement Floor Area shall not be included
unless such area constitutes a Story.
FLOOR AREA RATIO. The numerical value obtained through dividing the Gross Floor
Area of a Building or Buildings by the net area of the Lot or parcel of land on
which such Building or Buildings are located.
FLOOR PLAN – GENERAL. A graphic representation of the anticipated use of the
Floor Area within a Building or Structure.
FRONTAGE. The boundary of a Lot which abuts a public Street or private road.
GARAGE – PRIVATE. A Detached one-Story Accessory Building, or portion of the
principal Building, including a Carport, which is used primarily for the
storing of passenger Vehicles, trailers or farm trucks.
GARAGE – REPAIR. A Building or space for the REPAIR or maintenance of motor
Vehicles, but not including factory assembly of such Vehicles, auto wrecking
establishments or Junk Yards.
GARAGE – STORAGE. Any premises, except those described as a private or public
GARAGE used exclusively for the Storage of power-driven Vehicles.
GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of Lake St. Croix Beach.
HOME OCCUPATION. Any gainful occupation or profession engaged in by an occupant
only of a Dwelling Unit which is an Accessory Use that is clearly incidental to
the Use of the Dwelling Unit for residential purposes, when conducted on the
premises and does not change the nature of the Principal Use.
HOTEL. A Building having provision for nine or more guests in which lodging is
provided with or without meals, for compensation, and which is open to
transient or permanent guests or both, and where no provision is made for
cooking in any guest room, and which ingress and egress to and from all rooms
is made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a Person in charge.
INDUSTRIAL USE. The Use of land or Buildings for the production, manufacture,
Warehousing, Storage or transfer of goods, products, commodities or other
wholesale items.
INSTITUTIONAL HOUSING. Housing for students, mentally and physically
handicapped and similar housing of a specialized nature.
JUNK VEHICLE. Any of the following: any type of Vehicle requiring a license to
operate on any public highway or Street, but without a current license attached
thereto. Any type of Vehicle that is not in operable condition. Any type of
Vehicle that is partially dismantled and is Used for sale of parts, or source
for replacement parts for repair of other Vehicles. Any type of Vehicle that is
kept for salvage or scrap of any sort.
JUNK YARD. Land and Structures Used for the Storage or keeping of junk,
including scrap metals, or for the dismantling or wrecking of automobiles or
other machinery, other than the Storage of materials which is incidental or
accessory to any Business or Industrial Use on the same Lot. Storage of such
material in conjunction with a permitted Manufacturing process when within an
enclosed area or Building shall not be included.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any place where four or more of any type of domestic pets,
over four months of age, are boarded, bred, trained or offered for sale.
KENNEL, PRIVATE. Any place where three domestic pets, over six months of age,
are owned by any member or members of the household.
LAND ALTERATION. The excavation or grading of land involving movement of earth
and materials in excess of 50 cubic yards.
LAND RECLAMATION. The reclaiming of land by depositing material so as to
elevate the grade. Depositing a total of more than 50 cubic yards of material
per Lot or parcel, either by hauling in or regrading the area.
LANDSCAPING. Planting trees, shrubs and turf covers such as grasses and shrubs.
LOADING SPACE. A space, accessible from a Street, alley or way, in or outside
of a Building, for the Use of trucks while loading and unloading merchandise or
materials.
LODGING ROOM. A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities. In a suite of rooms without cooking facilities, each room
which provides sleeping accommodations shall be counted as one LODGING ROOM.
LOT. A parcel of land designated by metes and bounds, registered land survey,
plat or other means, and which description is either recorded in the office of
the County Recorder or Registrar of Titles or used by the County Treasurer or
County Assessor to separate such parcel from other lands for tax purposes. A
Lot must be situated and have its principal Frontage on a public Street.
LOT AREA. The AREA of a horizontal plane within the LOT lines.
LOT AREA, MINIMUM PER DWELLING UNIT. The minimum number of square feet or acres
of LOT AREA required per Dwelling Unit.
LOT – BUILDABLE. A LOT which meets or exceeds all requirements of the City land
Use and development ordinances without the necessity of Variances.
LOT – CORNER. A LOT situated at the intersection of two or more Streets, or
bounded on two or more adjacent sides by Street lines.
LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lines of a
LOT.
LOT – INTERIOR. A LOT other than a Corner LOT, including Through LOTS.
LOT LINE. A line of record bounding a Lot which divides a Lot from another Lot,
a public Street or any other public or private space.
LOT LINE – FRONT. A Lot line abutting a dedicated public right-of-way.
LOT LINE – REAR. The Lot line opposite and most distant from the front Lot
line. In the case of Corner Lots, the rear Lot line shall be determined by the
zoning Administrator based upon characteristics of the surrounding
neighborhood.
LOT LINE – SIDE. Any boundary of a LOT which is not a front Lot line or a rear
Lot line.
LOT – THROUGH. Any Lot other than a Corner Lot which abuts more than one
Street. On a THROUGH LOT, all the Street lines shall be considered the front
lines for applying this chapter.
LOT – THROUGH OR DOUBLE FRONTAGE. As defined in Chapter 156, Subdivision Code,
and referring to a lake or stream Frontage Lot having a public road as one Lot
line and a water body at the opposite Lot line.
LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side Lot lines of a Lot measured
at the Setback Line.
MANUFACTURED HOME. A Structure, transportable in one or more sections which in
the traveling mode is eight feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in
length, or when erected on-site is 320 or more square feet, and which is built
on a permanent chassis and designed to be Used as a Dwelling with or without
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating and air conditioning and electrical systems contained
therein, and which meets all the requirements established under M.S. § 327.31,
as it may be amended from time to time, the Manufactured Home Building Code.
MANUFACTURING – GENERAL. All MANUFACTURING, compounding, processing, packaging,
treatment or assembly of goods or materials which would involve a risk of
offensive or dangerous noise, odor or pollution beyond the Lot on which the Use
is located. Such Uses include, but are not limited to the following: sawmill;
refineries; Commercial feedlots; acid, cement; explosives; flour, feed and
grain milling or Storage; meat packing; slaughter houses; coal or tar asphalt
distillation; rendering of fat, grease, lard or tallow; alcoholic beverages;
poisons; exterminating agents; glue; lime; gypsum; plaster of paris; tanneries;
automobile parts; paper and paper products including Storage; electric power
generation facilities; vinegar works; Junk Yards, Auto Reduction Yards;
foundry; forge; casting of metal products; rock, stone and cement products.
MANUFACTURING – LIMITED. All compounding, processing, packaging, treatment or
assembly of goods and materials, provided such Use will not involve the risk of
offensive odors, glare, smoke, dust, noise, vibrations or other pollution
extending beyond the Lot on which the Use is located. Such Uses include, but
are not limited to the following: lumber yard, machine shops, products
assembly, sheet metal shops, plastics, electronics, general Vehicle Repair
(Repair Garage), bodywork and painting, contractor shops and Storage yard, food
and non-alcoholic beverages, Signs and displays, printing, publishing,
fabricated metal parts, appliances, clothing, textiles and used auto parts.
MANURE. Any solid or liquid containing animal excreta.
MEDICAL USES. Those USES concerned with the diagnosis, treatment and care of
human beings. These include: hospitals, dental services, medical services or
clinics, nursing or convalescent home, orphan’s home, rest home and sanitarium.
MEAN FLOW LEVEL. The average FLOW elevation of a stream or river computed as
the mid-point between extreme low and extreme high water.
MINING. The extraction of sand, gravel, rock, soil or other material from the
land and the removal thereof from the site. For the purposes of this chapter,
MINING shall not include the removal of materials associated with the
construction of a Building, the removal of excess materials in accordance with
approved plats or utility highway construction, minor agricultural and sod
removal.
MOTOR COURTS, MOTOR HOTEL OR MOTEL. A Building or group of Buildings other than
a Hotel Used primarily as a temporary residence of a motorist.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL. A Building or area in which FREIGHT brought by motor
truck is transferred and/or stored for movement by motor truck.
NOISE – AMBIENT. The all-encompassing noise associated with a given
environment, being either a composite of sounds transmitted by any means from
many sources near and far or a single predominant source.
NOMINAL FIVE-ACRE PARCEL. A FIVE-ACRE PARCEL not reduced by more than 10% due
to road right-of-way dedication.
NON-CONFORMING USE OR LOT. Any lawful Use of land or any lawful Use of a
Building or Structure existing on the effective date of this chapter, or any
amendment thereto, which Use does not conform with the regulations for the
district in which it is located after the effective date of this chapter or
such amendment.
NONCONFORMITY. Any legal Use, Structure or parcel of land already in existence,
recorded, or authorized before the adoption of Official Controls or amendments
thereto that would not have been permitted to become established under the
terms of the Official Controls as now written, if the Official Controls had
been in effect prior to the date it was established, recorded or authorized.
NOXIOUS MATTER. Material which is capable of causing injury or is in any way
harmful to living organisms or is capable of causing detrimental effect upon
the physical or mental health of human beings.
NURSERY – DAY. A Use where care is provided for three or more children under
kindergarten age for periods of four hours or more per day for pay.
NURSERY – LANDSCAPE. A Business growing and selling trees, flowering and
decorative plants, and shrubs which may be conducted within a Building or
without.
NURSING HOME. A Building with facilities for the care of children, the aged,
infirm or place of rest for those suffering bodily disorder.
OFFICE USES. Those Commercial activities that take place in OFFICE Buildings,
where goods are not produced, sold or repaired. Including, but not limited to
banks, professional offices, governmental offices, insurance offices, real
estate offices, telephone exchanges, utility offices, radio broadcasting and
similar USES.
OFFICIAL CONTROL. Legislatively defined and enacted policies, standards,
precise detailed maps, and other criteria, all of which CONTROL the physical
development of a municipality or a county, or any part thereof, or any detail
thereof, and the means of translating into ordinances all or any part of the
general objectives of the Comprehensive Plan. Such OFFICIAL CONTROLS may
include, but are not limited to ordinances establishing zoning, Subdivision
controls, site plan regulations, sanitary codes, Building Codes, housing codes
and Official Maps.
OFFICIAL MAP. A map adopted in accordance with the provisions of M.S. §
462.359, as it may be amended from time to time.
OPEN SALES LOT. Lands devoted to the display of goods for sale, rent, lease or
trade where such goods are not enclosed within a Building.
OPEN STORAGE. STORAGE of any material outside of a Building.
OWNER. Includes all Persons interested in a property as fee simple OWNER, life
estate holder, encumbrancer or otherwise.
PARKING SPACE. A suitably surfaced and permanently maintained area on privately
owned property either within or outside of a Building of sufficient size to
store one standard automobile.
PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way across or within a block or
tract, to be used by PEDESTRIANS and/or non- motorized Vehicles.
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS. The minimum development STANDARDS as adopted by the City
Council and on file in the office of the Building Inspector.
PERSON. Any Person, firm, corporation, association, company, organization,
including governmental agencies and political entities.
PLANNING ADVISORY COMMISSION or PLANNING COMMISSION. The duly appointed
planning and zoning advisory commission of the City.
PLANNING AGENCY. A Planning Commission or department, however created, or the
office of the Planning or Zoning Director or Inspector or the office of any
official designated as Such Planning or Zoning Director or Inspector, together
with any staff members, employees or consultants of such commission,
department, director, inspector or official, and the Planning Commission and
its employees or staff.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS. Include all developments having two or more
Principal Uses or Structures on a single parcel of land; and may include
Townhouses, Apartment projects involving more than one Building, residential
Subdivision submitted under cluster zoning provisions, multi-use Structures
such as an Apartment Building with retail at ground floor level, Commercial
type developments, industrial type developments, mixed residential and
Commercial type developments and similar projects.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, COMMERCIAL. Typically include Uses that provide
transient, short-term lodging spaces, rooms or parcels, and their operations
are essentially service-oriented. For example: Hotel/motel accommodations,
Resorts, recreational Vehicle and camping parks, and other primarily service-
oriented activities are Commercial Planned Unit Developments.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, RESIDENTIAL. A Use where the nature of residency is
nontransient, and major or primary focus is not service-oriented. For example:
residential Apartments, Manufactured Home parks, Townhouses and full-fee
ownership residences would be considered as Residential Planned Unit
Developments. To qualify as a Residential Planned Unit Development, a
development must contain at least five Dwelling Units or sites.
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE OR USE. One which determines the predominant Use as
contrasted to Accessory Use or Structure.
PROTECTIVE OR RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. A contract entered into between private
parties which constitutes a restriction of the Use of a particular parcel of
property.
PUBLIC LAND. Land owned and/or operated by a governmental unit, including
school districts.
RACE TRACK. Any area where one or more animals or power driven Vehicles are
raced for profit or pleasure.
RECREATION EQUIPMENT. Play apparatus such as swing sets and slides, sandboxes,
poles for nets, unoccupied boats and trailers not exceeding 25 feet in length,
picnic tables, lawn chairs, barbecue stands and similar equipment or
Structures, but not including tree houses, swimming pools, play houses
exceeding 25 square feet in Floor Area or sheds utilized for Storage of
equipment.
RECREATION VEHICLE. A Vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400 square
feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is designed to
be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty truck and is primarily
designed not for Use as a permanent Dwelling but as temporary living quarters
for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal Use.RECREATION VEHICLE PARKS. A
park, court, campsite, Lot, parcel or tract of land designed, maintained or
intended for the purpose of supplying the location or accommodations for any
Recreation Vehicles as defined herein, and upon which said Recreation Vehicles
are parked. The term RECREATION VEHICLE PARK shall include all Buildings Used
or intended for Use as part of the equipment thereof, whether a charge is made
for the use of the park and its facilities or not.
RESEARCH. Medical, chemical, electrical, metalurgical or other scientific
RESEARCH and quality control, conducted in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. See §
157.043 for permitted Uses.
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL, SHORT-TERM. Any rental or lease of a Dwelling by its Owner
to someone other than the Owner for purposes of transient lodging for a fee or
other renumeration, with a lease or rental term of less than 30 days, and
regardless of whether the Owner resides at the property or not
RESORT. Any Structure or group of Structures containing more than two Dwelling
Units or separate living quarters designed or intended to serve as Seasonal or
temporary Dwellings on a rental or lease basis for profit with the primary
purpose of said Structure or Structures being recreational in nature. Uses may
include a grocery for guests only, fish cleaning house, marine service, boat
landing and rental, recreational area and equipment and similar Uses normally
associated with a RESORT operation.
RESTAURANT. An establishment in which food and/or drink is offered or prepared
and served for public consumption and is served to customers at tables by
employees. Restaurants may include incidental take-out service.
RETAIL BUSINESS USES. Stores and shops selling personal services or goods for
final consumption.
ROADSIDE SALES STAND. A Structure Used only for the display and sale of
products with no space for customers within the Structure, on a seasonal basis.
RUNWAY. A surface of an airport landing strip.
RUNWAY INSTRUMENT. A Runway equipped with air navigation facilities suitable to
permit the landing of aircraft by an instrument approach under restricted
visibility conditions.
SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA. Any dish antenna having a diameter in excess of 30
inches utilized for the purpose of receiving or transmitting radio, telephone,
television, or satellite transmissions or communications
SCREENING. Screening includes earth mounds, berms or ground forms; Fences and
walls; Landscaping (plant materials) or landscaped fixtures (such as timbers);
Used in combination or singularly, so as to block direct visual access to an
object throughout the year.
SETBACK. The minimum distance from any Lot line or other reference point, such
as a bluff, that an improvement may be placed, measured perpendicularly from
the Lot line to the closest point of the improvement.
SETBACK LINE. The line which is the specified Setback -distance from and
parallel to any Lot line, or other specified line, such as the ordinary high
water level, edge of wetland, floodplain, or top of bluff.
SHOPPING CENTER. Any grouping of two or more principal retail Uses whether on a
single Lot or on abutting Lots under multiple or single ownership.
SIGN. A display, illustration, Structure or device which directs attention to
an object, produce, place, activity, Person, institution, organization or
Business. (Also see §
157.091.)
STORAGE. Goods, materials or equipment placed or left in a location on a
premises.
STORY. The portion of a Building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above. A Basement shall be counted as a STORY and
a Cellar shall not be counted as a STORY.
STREET. A public right-of-way which affords a primary means of access to
abutting property.
STREET – COLLECTOR. A STREET which serves or is designed to serve as a
trafficway for a neighborhood or as a feeder to a major road.
STREET – INTERMEDIATE OR MINOR ARTERIAL. A STREET which serves or is designed
to serve heavy flows of traffic and which is Used primarily as a route for
traffic between communities and/or other heavy traffic generating areas.
STREET – LOCAL. A STREET intended to serve primarily as an access to abutting
properties.
STREET PAVEMENT. The wearing or exposed surface of the roadway Used by
vehicular traffic.
STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the lines delineating the roadway
including shoulders or parking lanes of a Street. On urban designed Streets it
is face to face of curbs
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change, other than incidental repairs, which would
affect the supporting members of a Building, such as bearing walls, columns,
beams, girders or foundations.
STRUCTURE. Any Building or appurtenance, including but not limited to, vision
obstructing Fences, decks, retaining walls, satellite dishes, except aerial or
underground utility lines, such as sewer, electric, telephone, telegraph, gas
lines, tower poles, and other supporting facilities. Includes any part thereof.
STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL. The Building in which is conducted the primary Use of the
Lot on which the Building is located.
SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land after the effective date of this
chapter into two or more Lots or parcels, for the purpose of transfer of
ownership or Building development. The term includes resubdivision and, when
appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process of subdividing or to
the land subdivided
SUBSTANDARD BUILDING or SUBSTANDARD STRUCTURE. Any Building or Structure
lawfully existing on the effective date of this chapter or any amendment
thereto which Building or Structure does not conform with the regulations,
including dimensional standards, for the district in which it is located after
the effective date of this chapter or such amendment.SUPPER CLUB. A Building
with facilities for the preparation and serving of meals and where meals are
regularly served at tables to the general public. The Building must be of
sufficient size and design to permit the serving of meals to not less than 50
guests at one time. Intoxicating liquors may be sold on-sale and live
entertainment and/or dancing shall be permitted.
TAVERN or BAR. A Building with facilities for the serving of beer, 3.2% malt
liquor, wine, set-ups and short order foods.
TRANSPORTATION TERMINAL. Truck, taxi, air, bus, train and mass transit TERMINAL
and Storage area, including Motor Freight (solid and liquid) TERMINAL.
TRUCK STOP. A motor fuel station devoted principally to the needs of tractor
trailer units and trucks, and which may include eating and/or sleeping
facilities.
USE. The purpose or activity for which a premises is designed, arranged or
intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
USE - ACCESSORY. A USE subordinate to and serving the Principal Use or
Structure on the same Lot and customarily incidental to such Principal Use.
USE - CONDITIONAL. See CONDITIONAL USE.
USE - NON-CONFORMING. See §
157.005.
USE - OPEN. The USE of land without a Building or including a Building
incidental to the OPEN USE.
USE - PRINCIPAL. See PRINCIPAL USE.
USE - SUBSTANDARD. See §
157.005.
VARIANCE. A modification or variation of the strict provisions of this chapter
as applied to a specific piece of property in order to provide relief for a
property Owner because of undue hardship or practical difficulty imposed upon
the property by this chapter. A VARIANCE shall normally be limited to height,
bulk, density and Yard requirements. A modification in the allowable Uses
within a district shall not be considered a VARIANCE. (See §
157.021(B).)
VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power, designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and used
to transport Persons or property, pull machinery, and shall include without
limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, snowmobiles, and
tractors.
VEHICLE REPAIR. General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of engines, motor
Vehicles or trailers, including body work, framework, welding and major
painting services.
VETERINARY. Those Uses concerned with the diagnosis, treatment and medical care
of animals, including animal or pet hospitals.
WAREHOUSING. The Storage, packing and crating of materials or equipment within
an enclosed Building or Structure.
WATERFRONT USES (RESIDENTIAL). Boat docks and Storage, fish house, fish
cleaning, water Recreation Equipment and other Uses normally incidental to a
lakeshore residence, provided such Uses are for the exclusive Use of the
occupants and non-paying guests.
WHOLESALING. The selling of goods, equipment and materials by bulk to another
Person who in turn sells the same to customers.
YARD. The open space on an occupied Lot which is not covered by any Structure.
YARD - FRONT. The area between the front Lot line and the front Setback Line.
YARD - REAR. The area between the rear Lot line and the rear Setback Line.
YARD - REQUIRED. A YARD area which may not be built on or covered by Structures
because of the dimensional Setbacks for said Structures within the Zoning
District.
YARD - SIDE. A space extending from the Front Yard to the Rear Yard along a
side Lot line measured perpendicularly from the side Lot line to the closest
point of a Structure.
ZONING DISTRICT. An area or areas within the City in which the regulations and
requirements of this chapter are uniform.
§ 157.004 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application generally. Except as hereinafter provided, no Building or
Structure shall be erected, moved, altered or extended, and no land, Building
or Structure, or part thereof, shall be occupied or Used unless in conformity
with regulations specified in this chapter for the district in which it is
located.
   (B)   Application to existing Structures. This chapter shall not apply to
existing Buildings and Structures, nor to the existing Use of any Building,
Structure or land to the extent of such Use on the effective date of this
chapter. However, this chapter shall apply to any change in Use, alteration,
extension or movement of a Building or Structure, and to any change in the Use
of land subsequent to the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   Use defined. For the purpose of this chapter, the word Use shall mean:
      (1)   Any purpose of which a Building or other Structure or a tract of
land may be designed, arranged, intended, maintained or occupied; or
      (2)   Any activity, occupation, Business or operation carried on, or
intended to be carried on, in a Building or other Structure, or on a tract of
land.
§ 157.005 MINNESOTA ACCESSIBILITY CODE.
   The Minnesota Accessibility Code, established pursuant to M.S. §§ 326B.–1 -
326B.998, as they may be amended from time to time, and as provided for in
Minn. Rules Ch. 1341, as it may be amended from time to time, is adopted as the
Building Code for accessibility in this City. M.S. § 326B.16 provides that a
City which has not adopted the State Building Code is nevertheless responsible
for the enforcement of the Minnesota Accessibility Code, and this section is
intended to comply with that requirement.
   No Building subject to the provisions of the Minnesota Accessibility Code
shall be constructed, reconstructed or substantially altered, or undergo a
change in Use within the City unless the Building will comply with the
Minnesota Accessibility Code after the construction or alteration is completed
or the change in Use occurs.
   Any Person who constructs, reconstructs or substantially alters any Building
subject to the Minnesota Accessibility Code, or changes the Use of any such
Building shall, before construction or alteration begins, certify to the City
Clerk-Adminstrator that the applicable provisions of the Minnesota
Accessibility Code will be complied with.
   No Person shall be issued a Building, zoning or land Use permit unless they
certify that any Structure to be located on the property shall be constructed
or reconstructed in compliance with the handicapped accessibility provisions,
if they apply to the Structure to be constructed, substantially altered or
reconstructed.
   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punished as provided for in §
10.99.
§ 157.006 CONTRACTORS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No residential Building contractor, residential remodeler, or other Person
who is required to be licensed by the state under the provisions of M.S. §§
326B.805 – 326B.89, as they may be amended from time to time, and no Person
employing a residential contractor, who is required to be licensed, shall be
issued a Building, zoning or land Use permit unless that contractor is
licensed. Any Person applying for a permit who is required to have a state
license but who does not have a state license shall be reported to the State
Commissioner of Commerce, who may begin an action against the Person.
§ 157.007 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   After the date of the adoption of this code, only Manufactured Homes which
comply with the Manufactured Home Building Code established by M.S. § 327.31
may be located in and Used as a Dwelling within the City. A Manufactured Home,
Manufactured Home, house trailer or other Manufactured Dwelling which does not
comply with the Manufactured Home Building Code and which is Used as a
residence after the date of the adoption of this code is a nonconforming Use as
defined by M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 1e, as it may be amended from time to time,
and this nonconforming Use may be continued, including through repair,
maintenance, replacement, restoration or improvement but if the Nonconformity
or occupancy is discontinued for a period of more than one year, or the
nonconforming Use is destroyed by fire or other peril to the extent of greater
than 50% of its market value and no Building permit is applied for within 180
days of when the property is damaged, any subsequent Use or occupancy of the
land or premises shall be a conforming Use or occupancy.
§ 157.008 AMATEUR RADIO SUPPORT TOWERS.
   Amateur radio support Structures (towers) shall not exceed a height above
ground level of 70 feet, unless a Conditional Use permit has been granted by
the City Council. They shall be mounted on the roof of a Dwelling or other
Building or located in the Rear Yard unless there is not sufficient space to
erect them in those locations. They shall be installed in accordance with the
instructions furnished by the manufacturer of that tower model. Because of the
experimental nature of the amateur radio service, antennas mounted on a tower
may be modified and changed at any time so long as the published allowable load
on the tower is not exceeded and the Structure of the tower remains in
accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.
§ 157.009 NON-CONFORMING USES, BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   As required by M.S. § 462.357, as it may be amended from time to time, any
Nonconformity, including the lawful Use or occupation of land or premises
existing at the time of the adoption of these zoning regulations, may be
continued, including through repair, replacement, restoration, maintenance or
improvement, but not including expansion, unless the Nonconformity or occupancy
is discontinued for a period of more than one year, or any nonconforming Use is
destroyed by fire or other peril to the extent of greater than 50% of its
market value, and no Building permit has been applied for within 180 days of
when the property is damaged. In this case, the City Council may impose
reasonable conditions upon a Building permit in order to mitigate any newly
created impact on adjacent property. A subsequent Use or occupancy of the land
or premises shall be a conforming Use or occupancy.
   Notwithstanding division (A), the City may regulate the repair, replacement,
maintenance, improvement, or expansion of nonconforming Uses and Structures in
floodplain areas to the extent necessary to maintain eligibility in the
National Flood Insurance Program and not increase flood damage potential or
increase the degree of obstruction of flood flows in the floodwall.
   Nonconforming shoreland Lots of record are subject to the provisions of M.S.
§ 462.357, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 157.010 COMPLIANCE WITH CODE.
   No Person shall erect, alter or replace any Structure within the City unless
the Structure complies with the applicable requirements of this code and the
Person has obtained a land Use permit from the City Clerk-Administrator
certifying compliance with all of the applicable requirements of this code. No
Person shall Use any Structure or premises for any purpose other than as
permitted by this code, except that lawful nonconforming Uses as of the date of
the adoption of this code may continue only as provided in M.S. § 462.357,
Subd. 1e, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 157.011 SUPREMACY AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Separability. Every section, provision or part of this chapter or any
permit issued pursuant to this chapter is declared separable from every other
section, provision or part thereof to the extent that if any section, provision
or part of this chapter or any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, it shall not invalidate any
other section, provision or part thereof.
   (B)   Supremacy. When any condition imposed by any provision of this chapter
on the Use of land or Buildings or on the bulk of Buildings is either more
restrictive or less restrictive than similar conditions imposed by any
provision of any other City ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive
conditions shall prevail.
   (C)   More restrictive provisions. This chapter is not intended to abrogate
any easements, restrictions or Covenants relating to the Use of land or imposed
on lands within the City by private declaration or agreement, but where the
provisions of this chapter are more restrictive than any such easement,
restriction or Covenant or provision of any private agreement, the provisions
of this chapter shall prevail.
ADMINISTRATION
§ 157.020 ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   Administrator. The office of the Zoning Administrator is hereby
established. The Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by the City Council
and serve at its pleasure.
   (B)   Duties of the Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter as provided herein.
      (2)   In addition to the duties and powers of the Zoning Administrator
under this chapter, express or implied, they shall have the duty and power to:
         (a)   Issue permits required by this chapter;
         (b)   Conduct inspections of land, Buildings or Structures at
reasonable times, to determine compliance with and enforce the provisions of
this chapter;
         (c)   Maintain all records necessary for the enforcement of this
chapter, including, but not limited to, all maps, amendments and special Use
permits, Variances, appeal notices and applications therefor;
         (d)   Receive, file and forward all appeals, notices, applications for
Variances, special Use permits or other matters to the appropriate officials or
boards;Notify in writing Persons responsible for violations indicating the
nature of the violation and the action necessary to correct it.
         (e)   Institute in the name of the City, any appropriate actions or
proceedings to enforce this chapter;
         (f)   Serve as ex-officio, non-voting member of the Planning
Commission Collect fees in accordance with the current City fee schedule, as
amended, for all applications, permits, or other matters covered under the
provisions of this chapter; a Issuing stop work order for violations of this
chapter Zoning administration summary.
                  Property     Application Appeal Would  Public
Action When       Owner Should Will Be     be Considered Hearing  Reference
       Applicable Apply To     Approved or By            Required
                               Denied By
                          Property Owner Application    Appeal     Public
Action       When         Should Apply   Will Be        Would be   Hearing  Reference
             Applicable   To             Approved or    Considered Required
                                         Denied By      By
             Petition of                 Review and
             property                    recommendation Board of
Amendment of Owner or                    by Planning    Adjustment
zoning       initiative   City Zoning    Commission,    and        Yes      §
ordinance    of Planning  Administrator* final approval Appeals             157.025
             Commission                  by City        and Court
             or City                     Council
             Council
                                                        Board of
Building     City         City Building  City Building  Adjustment          State
permits      Building     Inspector      Inspector      and        No       Building
             Inspector                                  Appeals             Code
                                                        and Court
             Certify                                    Board of
Certificate  compliance                                 Adjustment
of           with more    City Zoning    City Zoning    and        No       §
Compliance   unusual Uses Administrator* Administrator  Appeals             157.026
             or zoning                                  and Court
             requirements
             Certifies
             Building or                                Board of
             Structure    Issued upon                   Adjustment
Certificate  meets        approved       City Building  and        No       §
of Occupancy current      completion of  Inspector      Appeals             157.027
             codes and    Structure                     and Court
             can now be
             occupied
             May allow                   Review and
             for Uses not                recommendation Board of
Conditional  normally     City Zoning    by Planning    Adjustment          §
Use permit   permitted in Administrator* Commission,    and        Yes      157.022
             a specific                  final approval Appeals
             Zoning                      by City        and Court
             District                    Council
Permits      Generally,                                                     State
(Signs,      to protect   City Zoning                   Board of            Building
septic,      health,      Administrator/ City Zoning    Adjustment          Code
grading,     safety and   C ity Building Administrator  and        No       Zoning
soil         welfare of   Inspector                     Appeals             Ordinance
conservation occupants                                  and Court           Septic
)            and public                                                     Ordinance
                                         Review and
             Two or more                 recommendation Board of
Planned Unit Principal    City Zoning    by Planning    Adjustment          §
Development  Uses or      Administrator* Commission,    and        Yes      157.024
             Buildings on                final approval Appeals
             one parcel                  by City        and Court
                                         Council
                                         Review and
                                         recommendation Board of
             Creating new City Zoning    by Planning    Adjustment          Chapter
Subdivision  Lots         Administrator* Commission,    and        Yes      156
                                         final approval Appeals
                                         by City        and Court
                                         Council
             Difficulties
             with                        Board of
Variance     dimensional  City Zoning    Adjustment and Court      Yes      §
             provisions   Administrator* Appeals and                        157.021
             of zoning                   Court
             ordinance
* Fees shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
 
§ 157.021 CONSISTENCY WITH STATE LAW.
   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, the provisions of
M.S. § 15.99 as it may be amended from time to time, and the following sections
shall govern the process for making decisions under this chapter. To the extent
to which these sections conflict with the provisions of M.S. § 15.99, as it may
be amended from time to time, the provisions of that statute shall apply.
§ 157.022 BOARD OF APPEALS AND ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council shall be the Board of Appeals and Adjustments for
this City, and have the powers granted under M.S. §§ 462.357, Subd. 6 and
462.359, Subd. 4, as they may be amended from time to time.
§ 157.023 APPLICATIONS
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, all applications
for any site plan, Conditional Use permit, land Use permit, Variance, or for
any other City approval required by this chapter, or to amend this chapter,
shall be made in writing on a form provided by the City, if the City has a
form, to the City Clerk-Administrator or other Person appointed by the City
Council to administer this chapter.
   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to reject in writing any incomplete
application within 15 business days of receipt if the application is
incomplete, stating the reasons for its rejection, including what information
is missing. This rejection shall be sent by first-class mail to the applicant.
Every application shall contain the legal description of the property and a
statement of the specific permit or action being sought. Nothing in this
section shall be deemed to prevent the City from requesting additional
information from the applicant upon which to base a decision.
§ 157.024 PUBLIC NOTICE AND HEARINGS.
   As required by M.S. § 462.357 and M.S. § 462.3595 a public hearing shall be
held by the City Council or the Planning Commission, if a Planning Commission
exists in the City, before any Conditional Use permit, Variance, or zoning
amendment may be granted. A notice of the time, place and purpose of the
hearing shall be published in the official newspaper of the City at least ten
days prior to the day of the hearing. In the case of an amendment to the zoning
code which involves changes in district boundaries affecting an area of five
acres or less, and in the case of an application for a Conditional Use permit
or a Variance, a similar notice shall be mailed at least ten days before the
day of the hearing to each Owner of affected property and property situated
wholly or partly within 350 feet of the property to which the zoning code
amendment, Conditional Use or Variance relates. The applicant shall provide a
list of the Owners of affected property and property situated wholly or partly
within 350 feet of the property to which the hearing relates. The Clerk or
other Person appointed by the City Council to administer this chapter may use
any appropriate records to determine the names and addresses of Owners. A copy
of the notice and a list of the Owners and addresses to which the notice was
sent shall be attested to by the Clerk or other Person appointed by the City
Council to administer this chapter and shall be made a part of the records of
the proceedings. The failure to give mailed notice to individual property
Owners, or defects in the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided
a bona fide attempt to comply with the mailed notice requirements has been
made.
§ 157.025 FINAL ACTIONS.
   As required by M.S. § 15.99 as it may be amended from time to time, commonly
called the 60-day rule, all approvals and denials of applications for a zoning
amendment, site plan, Conditional Use permit, land Use permit, Variance or any
other application which requires a City approval under this chapter must be
made within the timeline and following the process of M.S. § 15.99. Failure to
follow the requirements of the statute may result in automatic approval of
applications.
§ 157.026 NOTICE OF DECISION.
   As required by M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to time,
commonly called the 60-day rule, notice of approvals and denials of
applications for a zoning amendment, site plan, Conditional Use permit, land
Use permit, Variance or any other application which requires a City approval
under this chapter must be provided within the timeline and following the
process of M.S. § 15.99. Failure to follow the requirements of the statute may
result in automatic approval of applications.
§ 157.027 LAND USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No Structure or Fence subject to §
157.069 shall be constructed until a land Use permit has been obtained from the
City Clerk- Administrator or other Person appointed by the City Council to
administer this chapter. The application shall contain a plan showing the
location on the Structure or Fence on the property that demonstrates that all
requirements of this code will be met. The application shall also contain the
plans for the Structure to be built that demonstrates that the Structure will
meet all of the standards established by this zoning code. If an application
requires a zoning amendment, Conditional Use permit or Variance, no land Use
permit shall be issued by the Clerk or other Person appointed by the City
Council to administer this chapter until any application for a zoning
amendment, Conditional Use permit or Variance has been acted upon by the City
Council. A decision by the Clerk or other Person appointed by the City Council
to administer this chapter not to issue a land Use permit may be appealed to
the Board of Appeals and Adjustments as provided for in § 151.60. No
residential contractor who is required to be licensed by the state, and no
Person employing a residential contractor who is required to be licensed, shall
be issued a land Use permit unless that contractor is licensed. Any Person
applying for a permit who is required to have a state license, but who does not
have a state license, shall be reported to the State Commissioner of Commerce.
§ 157.028 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.3595, as it may be amended from time to time,
Conditional Uses may be approved by the City Council by a showing by the
applicant that the standards and criteria stated in this zoning code, and any
conditions imposed by the City Council, will be satisfied. A public hearing on
the granting of a Conditional Use permit shall be held in the manner provided
in § 151.51. A Conditional Use permit shall remain in effect as long as the
conditions agreed upon are observed, but the Council may enact or amend the
zoning code to change the status of Conditional Uses. A Conditional Use permit
shall not become effective until a certified copy is filed by the applicant
with the County Recorder, which shall include the legal description of the
property included.
   (A)   Hearing.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall refer the application to the
Planning Commission for consideration at its next regular meeting, provided
however, if the next regular meeting of the Planning Commission is within seven
days of the date of filing, then such consideration may be at the second
regular meeting after said filing. At that meeting, the Planning Commission
shall set a date for a public hearing in the manner provided in §
157.024 on said application. The public hearing shall be no more than 60 days
after the date of filing of the application with the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   The applicant or their representative may appear at the public
hearing in order to answer questions concerning the proposed Use.
   (B)   Planning Commission report.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall make its report on the application to
the City Council, in writing, within 60 days after the public hearing, unless
the applicant consents to extended consideration by the Planning Commission.
The report shall recommend that the Conditional Use permit be granted or denied
and shall include the Planning Commission’s recommendation as to any conditions
to be imposed if the Conditional Use permit is granted, including time limits
or provisions for periodic review and shall state the reasons therefor.
      (2)   The Planning Commission’s report shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator who shall refer the same to the City Council for consideration at
its next regular meeting; provided however, if the next regular meeting of the
City Council is within seven days of the date of filing, then such
consideration may be at the second regular meeting after said filing. At the
same time, the Zoning Administrator shall mail to the applicant a copy of the
Planning Commission’s report and a notice of the time and place of the meeting
at which the report will be considered by the City Council.
      (3)   If the Planning Commission fails to file a report with the Zoning
Administrator within the time provided by this section, the application shall
be referred to the City Council as herein provided, without report, after the
time for filing the report has expired.
   (C)   City Council action on application.
      (1)   The City Council shall make its decision on the application within
60 days of the filing of the Planning Commission’s report with the Zoning
Administrator or after the last day for filing the same if no report is filed.
The City Council shall make written findings and shall state therein the
reasons for its decision. Any such order shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator who shall immediately mail a copy thereof bearing the notation of
the filing date, to the applicant.
      (2)   The City Council may impose such conditions and restrictions,
including time limits on the Conditional Use or periodic review as appears to
be necessary and proper to protect adjacent property and comply with the intent
and purposes of this chapter and the Comprehensive Plan.
   (D)   A Conditional Use permit shall remain in effect as long as the
conditions agreed upon are observed, but the Council may enact or amend the
zoning code to change the status of Conditional Uses.
   (E)   A Conditional Use permit shall not become effective until a certified
copy is filed by the applicant with the County Recorder, which shall include
the legal description of the property included.
   (F)   Re-application. No application for a Conditional Use permit shall be
resubmitted for a period of six months from the date of the denial of a
previous application.
   (G)   Periodic review. If a periodic review is imposed as a condition of the
granting of a Conditional Use permit, the Conditional Use permit shall be
reviewed by the Planning Commission at a public hearing, in the manner provided
in §
157.024, at least 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. It shall be
the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to schedule such public hearing
and notify the permit holder, by certified mail, at least ten days prior to the
hearing.
   (H)   Compliance with permit; violation of conditions.
      (1)   Any Use permitted under the terms of a Conditional Use permit shall
be established and conducted in accordance with all of the terms, conditions
and restrictions of such permit. The violation of any term, condition or
restriction of a Conditional Use permit shall be a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   In the event of the violation of any term, condition or restriction
of a Conditional Use permit, the City may institute an appropriate action or
proceeding in District Court for such equitable relief as may be appropriate
including cancellation of the permit or appropriate orders preventing,
restraining, correcting or abating such violations or threatened violations.
   (I)   Expiration and suspension of Conditional Use permit. A Conditional Use
permit shall expire one year after it has been issued unless the Planning
Commission has set some other time limitation or unless the Use for which the
permit has been granted has commenced within such year, except that upon
written application of the Owner of the affected land for which the Conditional
Use permit was granted prior to the end of such year, the Planning Commission
may extend the expiration date of such permit for an additional period, not to
exceed one year. If under said Conditional Use permit, Building is commenced
and subsequently determined by the Zoning Administrator to be abandoned for a
period of 120 days, the Conditional Use permit shall be suspended at the end of
said 120 days. Before said construction may be recommenced, a Conditional Use
permit can be reinstated by the Planning Commission provided that no changes or
alterations in the original plan have been made. If the Building permit for the
construction that was determined to be abandoned became invalid prior to the
recommencement of such construction, the suspended Conditional Use permit shall
expire at the time said Building permit became invalid.
   (J)   Amended permit. An amended Conditional Use permit application may be
administered in a manner similar to that required for a new Conditional Use
permit. Amended Conditional Use permits shall include reapplications for
permits that have been denied or permits that have expired, requests for
changes in conditions and as otherwise described in this chapter.
   (K)   Inclusion. All Uses permitted by this chapter by Conditional Use
permit in existence prior to the adoption date of this chapter shall be
automatically issued a Conditional Use permit by the Zoning Administrator. Any
changes in the existing Use after the adoption date of this chapter shall
require an amended Conditional Use permit.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 151.57 VARIANCES.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time,
the City Council, acting as a Board of Appeals and Adjustments, may issue
Variances from the provisions of this zoning code. A Variance is a modification
or variation of the provisions of this zoning code as applied to a specific
piece of property. A Variance from the literal provisions of this zoning code
may be granted by the Board of Appeals and Adjustments only when the Variance
is in harmony with the general purposes and intent of the zoning code and the
Variance is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, if the City has adopted
one. A Variance may be granted when the applicant for the Variance establishes
that there are PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES in complying with the zoning ordinance.
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES as Used in connection with granting a Variance, means
the property Owner proposes to Use the property in a reasonable manner not
permitted by the zoning code; the plight of the landowner is due to
circumstances unique to the property not created by the landowner; and the
Variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of the locality.
Economic considerations alone do not constitute practical difficulties.
Practical difficulties include, but are not limited to, inadequate access to
direct sunlight for solar energy systems.
   Variances shall be granted for earth sheltered construction as defined in
M.S. § 216C.06, Subd. 14, as it may be amended from time to time, when in
harmony with this zoning code. The Board of Appeals and Adjustments may not
permit as a Variance any Use that is not allowed under this zoning code for
property in the zone where the affected Person's land is located. The Board of
Appeals and Adjustments may permit as a Variance the temporary Use of a one-
Family Dwelling as a Two-Family Dwelling. The Board of Appeals and Adjustments
may impose conditions in the granting of Variances to ensure compliance and to
protect adjacent properties. A condition must be directly related to and must
bear rough proportionality to the impact created by the Variance. The Variance
shall not become effective until a certified copy is filed by the applicant
with the County Recorder, which shall include the legal description of the
property included.
§ 151.60 APPEALS.
   Appeals to the City Council acting as the Board of Appeals and Adjustments
may be taken by any affected Person where it is alleged that there is an error
in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
officer of the City in the enforcement of the zoning code. No mailed or
published notice of the hearing on the appeal is required, but a public hearing
shall be held on each appeal.
§ 157.023 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a Certificate of Compliance in
any district for a proposed Use listed in §§
157.040 through
157.050 as a Use which must obtain a Certificate of Compliance prior to
construction or occupancy, if the proposed Use will not be contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, and that other codes and ordinances have been fully
complied with.
   (B)   Conditions required by this chapter shall be applied to the issuance
of the Certificate of Compliance and a periodic review of the certificate and
proposed Use may be required. The certificate shall be granted for a particular
Use and not for a particular Person or firm.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all certificates
of compliance issued including information on the Use, location and conditions
imposed as part of the permit such as time limits, review dates and such other
information as may be appropriate.
   (D)   Whenever this chapter requires a Certificate of Compliance, an
application therefor, in writing, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   The application shall be accompanied by development plans of the
proposed Use showing such information as may be reasonably required by the
Zoning Administrator, including but not limited to those listed below. These
plans shall contain adequate information upon which the Zoning Administrator
can determine the proposed development will meet all development standards if
the project proceeds in accordance with such plans:
      (1)   Site plan drawn to scale showing parcel and Building dimensions;
      (2)   Location of all Buildings and their square footage;
      (3)   Curb cuts, driveways, access roads, Parking Spaces, off-Street
loading areas and sidewalks;
      (4)   Landscaping and Screening plans;
      (5)   Finished grading and drainage plans sufficient to drain and dispose
of all surface water accumulated in the area;
      (6)   Sanitary and storm sewer plans with estimated Use;
         (a)   Soil type and soil limitations for the intended Use. If severe
soil limitations for the intended Use are noted, a plan or statement indicating
the soil conservation practice or practices to be Used to overcome said
limitation shall be made prior to the permit application;
         (b)   Location of well on applicant’s property and adjacent properties
         (c)   Erosion and sedimentation control plans in compliance with
Section ___.
         (d)   Stormwater management plans in compliance with… and;
         (e)   Permanent stormwater treatment inspection and maintenance plan,
and maintenance agreement as defined in .
      (7)   Any additional data reasonably requested by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (F)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue or deny the Certificate of
Compliance within ten days of the date on which all of the required information
has been submitted.
   (G)   If no such action on the request for a Certificate of Compliance is
taken within such time, the request for a Certificate of Compliance shall be
considered denied.
   (H)   If the request for a Certificate of Compliance is denied or if
conditions are imposed, the applicant may appeal the decision to the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals. The procedures to be followed in this case shall be the
same as those followed for an appeal to any administrative decision made by the
Zoning Administrator.
§ 157.024 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this Planned Unit Development section to
provide design flexibility by allowing substantial Variances from the
provisions of the City ordinances relating to land Use, Subdivision and
development, including similar regulations, but not parking requirements, off-
Street loading or necessary Screening. The Variances, if granted, shall be
fully consistent with the general intent and purpose of the City ordinances
relating to land Use, Subdivision and development, including the provisions of
this chapter. It is not the intent of this section to increase overall density
beyond the limits imposed by the other sections of this Zoning Code.
   (B)   Exclusion from certain requirements. Planned Unit Developments may be
excluded from certain requirements of the City ordinances relating to land Use,
Subdivision and development, including the provisions of this chapter,
providing:
      (1)   A general development plan as provided by divisions (E) and (F)
below is approved by the City Council;
      (2)   The City Council shall find that the proposed development is fully
consistent with the purposes of the City ordinances relating to land Use,
Subdivision and development, including the provisions of this chapter and in
conformity to the Comprehensive Plan;
      (3)   Adequate performance bonds or other security shall be given to the
City to secure completion of the development as provided by the general
development plan by the City Council; and
      (4)   Planned Unit Development permit is granted.
   (C)   Allowed Development
   Uses within the PUD may include only those Uses generally considered
associated with the general land Use category shown for the area on the
official Comprehensive Land Use Plan. Specific allowed Uses and Performance
Standards for each PUD shall be delineated in an ordinance and development
plan. The PUD development plan shall identify all the proposed land Uses and
those Uses shall become permitted Uses with the acceptance of the development
plan. Any change in the list of Uses approved in the development plan will be
considered an amendment to the PUD, and will follow the procedures specified in
this Code for Zoning Amendments.
      (1)   Permitted Uses. The PUD application shall identify all proposed
land Uses and those Uses shall become permitted Uses upon the approval of the
Planned Unit Development.
      (2)   Placement of Structures. More than one principal Building may be
placed on a platted Lot within a Planned Unit Development. The appearance and
compatibility of Buildings in relation to one another, other site elements, and
surrounding development shall be considered in the review process.
      (3)   Development intensity. The PUD may provide for an increase in the
maximum Gross Floor Area or Floor Area Ratio by up to twenty percent (20%) of
that allowed in the base Zoning District, for the purpose of promoting project
integration and additional site amenities.
      (4)   Density. The PUD may provide for an increase in density of
residential development by up to twenty percent (20%) of that allowed in the
base Zoning District, for the purpose of promoting diversity of housing types
and additional site amenities.
      (5)   Building Setbacks. The PUD may provide for a reduction in or
elimination of required Setbacks in the base Zoning District, provided that a
landscaped Setback area of the minimum width established for the base Zoning
District is maintained along the periphery of the adjacent Zoning District.
      (6)   Lot requirements. The Council may authorize reductions in the area
and Width of individual Lots within a PUD from that required for the base
Zoning District, provided that such reductions are compensated for by an
equivalent amount of open space or other public amenities elsewhere in the
Planned Unit Development. Any open space shall not include areas designated as
public or private Streets. The plan may increase the maximum density beyond
that permitted in the base Zoning District for the purpose of promoting an
integrated project with a variety of housing types and additional site
amenities.
      (7)   Other exceptions. As part of PUD approval, the Council is
authorized to approve other exceptions to the zoning controls applicable to the
base Zoning District, such as the maximum height of Structures or the minimum
off-Street parking requirements.
   (D)   MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
      (1)   Lot Area. A PUD must include a minimum of five (5) acres for
undeveloped land or two (2) acres for developed land within the approved
development. Tracts of less than two (2) acres may be approved only if the
applicant can demonstrate that a project of superior design can be achieved to
meet one or more of the identified objectives listed in Section 155.192, or
that compliance with the Comprehensive Plan goals and policies can be attained
through the Use of the PUD process. The Planning Commission shall authorize
submittal of a PUD for a tract of less than two acres prior to submittal of a
general concept plan application.
      (2)   Open space. For all PUDs, at least twenty percent (20%) of the
project area not within Street rights-of-way shall be preserved as protected
open space. Other public amenities may be approved as an alternative to this
requirement. Any required open space must be available to the residents,
tenants, or customers of the PUD for recreational purposes or similar benefit.
Land reserved for stormwater detention facilities and other required site
improvements may be applied to this requirement. Open space shall be designed
to meet the needs of residents of the PUD and the surrounding neighborhoods, to
the extent practicable, for parks, playgrounds, playing fields and other
recreational facilities.
      (3)   Street layout. In existing developed areas, the PUD should maintain
the existing Street grid, where present, and restore the Street grid where it
has been disrupted. In newly developing areas, Streets shall be designed to
maximize connectivity in each cardinal direction, except where environmental or
physical constraints make this infeasible. All Streets shall terminate at other
Streets, at Public Land, or at a park or other community facility, except that
Local Streets may terminate in stub Streets when those will be connected to
other Streets in future phases of the development or adjacent developments.
   (E)   COORDINATION WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
      (1)   Coordination with Subdivision review. Subdivision review under the
Subdivision regulations shall be carried out simultaneously with the review of
the PUD. The plans required under this Article shall be submitted in a form
that will satisfy the requirements of the Subdivision Ordinance for the
preliminary and Final Plat.
      (2)   Coordination with other zoning requirements. All of the provisions
of this Chapter applicable to the original district within which the Planned
Unit Development District is established shall apply to the PUD District except
as otherwise provided in approval of the final plan.
   (F)   PHASING AND GUARANTEE OF PERFORMANCE.
      (1)   Planning Commission role. The Planning Commission shall compare the
actual development accomplished in the various PUD zones with the approved
development schedule.
      (2)   Schedule extension. Upon recommendation of the Planning Commission
and for good cause shown by the property Owner, the Council may extend the
limits of the development schedule.
      (3)   Phasing of amenities. The construction and provision of all of the
common open space and public and recreational facilities which are shown on the
final development plan must proceed at the same rate as the construction of
Dwelling Units, if any. The Development Review Committee shall review all of
the Building permits issued for the PUD and examine the construction which has
taken place on the site. If they find that the rate of construction of Dwelling
Units is greater than the rate at which common open spaces and public and
recreational facilities have been constructed and provided, they shall forward
this information to the Council for action.
      (4)   Guarantees. A performance bond or letter of credit shall be
required to guarantee performance by the developer. The amount of this bond or
letter of credit, and the specific elements of the development program that it
is intended to guarantee, will be stipulated in the development agreement.
      (5)   Changes during development period.
         (a)   Minor changes in the location, placement and height of
Structures may be authorized by the Development Review Committee if required by
engineering or other circumstances not foreseen at the time the final plan was
approved and filed with the Director of Planning.
         (b)   Changes in Uses, any rearrangement of Lots, blocks and Building
tracts, changes in the provision of common open spaces, and all other changes
to the approved final development plan may be made only under the procedures
for zoning amendments, Article 3. Any changes shall be recorded as amendments
to the recorded copy of the final development plan.
      (6)   Rezoning to original district. If substantial development has not
occurred within a reasonable time after approval of the PUD Zoning District,
the City Council may instruct the Planning Commission to initiate rezoning to
the original Zoning District. It shall not be necessary for the City Council to
find that the rezoning was in error.
   (G)   CONTROL OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT FOLLOWING COMPLETION.
      (1)   Final development plan controls subsequent Use. After the
Certificate of Occupancy has been issued, the Use of the land and the
construction, modification or alteration of any Buildings or Structures within
the planned development shall be governed by the final development plan.
      (2)   Allowed changes. After the Certificate of Occupancy has been
issued, no changes shall be made in the approved final development plan except
upon application as provided below:
         (a)   Any minor extensions, alterations or modifications of existing
Buildings or Structures may be authorized by the Development Review Committee
if they are consistent with the purposes and intent of the final plan. No
change authorized by this Section may increase the cubic volume of any Building
or Structure by more than ten percent.
         (b)   Any Building or Structure that is totally or substantially
destroyed may be reconstructed only in compliance with the final development
plan unless an amendment to the final development plan is approved under this
chapter.
         (c)   Amendment required for major changes. Any other changes in the
final development plan, including any changes in the Use of common open space,
must be authorized by an amendment of the final development plan under the
procedures for Zoning Amendments, Article 3.
PROCEDURES FOR PROCESSING A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   There are three stages to the PUD process: application conference, general
concept plan, and final plan, as described below.
      (1)   Application Conference. Upon filing of an application for PUD, the
applicant of the proposed PUD shall arrange for and attend a conference with
the Director of Planning. The primary purpose of the conference shall be to
provide the applicant with an opportunity to gather information and obtain
guidance as to the general suitability of his or her proposal for the area for
which it is proposed and its conformity to the provisions of this Article
before incurring substantial expense in the preparation of plans, surveys and
other data.
      (2)   General Concept Plan. The general concept plan provides an
opportunity for the applicant to submit a plan to the City showing his or her
basic intent and the general nature of the entire development without incurring
substantial cost. The plan should include the following: overall density
ranges, general location of residential and nonresidential land Uses, their
types and intensities, general location of Streets, paths and open space, and
approximate phasing of the development.
      (3)   Final Plan. Following approval of the concept plan, the applicant
shall submit a final plan application and Final Plat, in accordance with the
requirements described in Section 155.199(B). The application shall proceed and
be acted upon in accordance with the procedures in this ordinance for zoning
changes. If appropriate because of the limited scale of the proposal, the
concept plan and final plan may proceed simultaneously.
      (4)   Schedule for Plan Approval.
         (a)   Developer presents the concept plan to the Planning Commission
for their review and comment.
         (b)   Within thirty (30) days after verification by the Director of
Planning that the required plan and supporting data are adequate, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing, with public notice.
         (c)   The Planning Commission shall conduct the hearing and report its
findings and make recommendations to the City Council.
         (d)   The City may request additional information from the applicant
concerning operational factors or retain expert testimony at the expense of the
applicant concerning operational factors.
         (e)   The Council may hold a public hearing after the receipt of the
report and recommendations from the Planning Commission. If the Planning
Commission fails to make a report within 60 days after receipt of the
application, then the City Council may proceed without the report. The Council
may approve the concept plan and attach such conditions as it deems reasonable.
         (f)   Following approval of the concept plan, the application may
proceed to the final plan phase, which shall follow the procedures established
in Article 3, Section 155.36, for zoning amendments.
   (I)   APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR GENERAL CONCEPT PLAN AND FINAL PLAN.
   Ten copies of the following plans, exhibits and documents shall be submitted
at both the general concept plan stage and the final plan stage.
      (1)   General Concept Plan Stage:
         (a)   Preliminary plat and information required by Subdivision title.
         (b)   General information:
            (i)   The landowners name and address and his interest in the
subject property.
            (ii)   The applicant's name and address if different from the
landowner.
            (iii)   The names and addresses of all professional consultants who
have contributed to the development of the PUD plan being submitted, including
Attorney, land planner, Engineer and surveyor.
            (iv)   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the
subject property to effectuate the proposed PUD, including a statement of all
legal, beneficial, tenancy and contractual interests held in or affecting the
subject property and including an up-to-date certified abstract of title or
registered property report, and such other evidence as the City Attorney may
require to show the status of title or control of the subject property.
         (c)   Present Status:
            (i)   The address and legal description of the property.
            (ii)   The existing zoning classification and present Use of the
subject property and all lands within 350 feet of the property.
            (iii)   A map depicting the existing development of the property
and all land within 350 feet thereof and indicating the location of existing
Streets, property lines, easements, water mains and storm and sanitary sewers,
with invert elevations on and within one hundred feet of the property.
            (iv)   A written statement generally describing the proposed PUD
and the market which it is intended to serve and its demand showing its
relationship to the City’s Comprehensive Plan and how the proposed PUD is to be
designed, arranged and operated in order to permit the development and Use of
neighboring property in accordance with the applicable regulations of the City.
            (v)   A statement of the proposed financing of the PUD.
            (vi)   Site conditions: Graphic reproductions of the existing site
conditions at a scale of one (1) inch equals one hundred (100) feet. All of the
graphics should be at the same scale as the final plan to allow easy cross-
reference. The Use of overlays is recommended for ease of analysis.
               (a)   Contours; minimum two foot (2’) intervals.
               (b)   Location, type and extent of tree cover.
               (c)   Slope analysis.
               (d)   Location and extent of water bodies, wetlands and streams
and flood plains within 300 feet of the property.
               (e)   Significant rock outcroppings.
               (f)   Existing drainage patterns.
               (g)   Vistas and significant views.
               (h)   Soil conditions as they affect development.
            (vii)   Schematic drawing of the proposed development concept,
including but not limited to the general location of major circulation
elements, public and common open space, residential and other land Uses.
            (viii)   A statement of the estimated total number of Dwelling
Units proposed for the PUD and a tabulation of the proposed approximate
allocations of land Use expressed in acres and as a percent of the total
project area, which shall include at least the following:
               (a)   Area devoted to residential Use by Building type.
               (b)   Area devoted to common open space.
               (c)   Area devoted to public open space and public amenities.
               (d)   Approximate area devoted to Streets.
               (e)   Approximate area devoted to, and number of, off-Street
parking and Loading Spaces and related access.
               (f)   Approximate area, and Floor Area, devoted to Commercial
Uses.
               (g)   Approximate area, and Floor Area, devoted to industrial or
Office Use.
            (ix)   When the PUD is to be constructed in stages during a period
of time extending beyond a single construction season, a schedule for the
development of such stages or units shall be submitted stating the approximate
beginning and completion date for each such stage or unit and the proportion of
the total PUD public or common open space and Dwelling Units to be provided or
constructed during each such state and overall chronology of development to be
followed from stage to stage.
            (x)   When the proposed PUD includes provisions for public or
common open space or service facilities, a statement describing the provision
that is to be made for the care and maintenance of such open space or service
facilities.
            (xi)   Any Restrictive Covenants that are to be recorded with
respect to property included in the proposed PUD.
            (xii)   Schematic utilities plans indicating placement of water,
sanitary and storm sewers.
            (xiii)   The City may excuse an applicant from submitting any
specific item of information or document required in this stage which it finds
to be unnecessary to the consideration of the specific proposal.
            (xiv)   The City may require the submission of any additional
information or documentation which it may find necessary or appropriate to full
consideration of the proposed PUD.
      (2)   Final Plan Stage. Development stage submissions should depict and
outline the proposed implementations of the general concept stage for the PUD.
Information from the general concept stage may be included for background and
to provide a basis for the submitted plan. The development stage submissions
shall include but not be limited to:
         (a)   Final Plat and information required by the City’s Subdivision
ordinance.
         (b)   Final plans drawn to a scale of not less than 1 inch = 100 feet
(or a scale requested by the Zoning Administrator) containing at least the
following information:
            (i)   Proposed name of the development (which shall not duplicate
nor be similar in pronunciation to the name of any plat heretofore recorded in
the county where the subject property is situated).
            (ii)   Property boundary lines and dimensions of the property and
any significant topographical or physical features of the property.
            (iii)   The location, size, Use and arrangement including height in
stories and feet and total square feet of ground area coverage and Floor Area
of proposed Buildings, including Manufactured Homes, and existing Buildings
which will remain, if any.
            (iv)   Location, dimensions of all driveways, entrances, curb cuts,
parking stalls, Loading Spaces and access aisles, and all other circulation
elements including bike and pedestrian; and the total site coverage of all
circulation elements.
            (v)   Location, designation and total area of all common open
space.
            (vi)   Location, designation and total area proposed to be conveyed
or dedicated for public open space, including parks, playgrounds, school sites
and recreational facilities.
            (vii)   Proposed Lots and blocks, if any and numbering system.
            (viii)   The location, Use and size of Structures and other land
Uses on adjacent properties.
            (ix)   Detailed sketches and provisions of proposed Landscaping.
            (x)    General grading and drainage plans for the developed PUD.
            (xii)   Any other information that may have been required by the
Planning Commission or Council in conjunction with the approval of the general
concept plan.
         (c)   An accurate legal description of the entire area within the PUD
for which final development plan approval is sought.
         (d)   A tabulation indicating the number of residential Dwelling Units
and expected population.
         (e)   A tabulation indicating the gross square footage, if any, of
Commercial and industrial floor space by type of activity (e.g. drug store, dry
cleaning, supermarket).
         (f)   Preliminary architectural “typical” plans indicating Use, Floor
Plan, elevations and exterior wall finishes of proposed Building, including
Manufactured Homes.
         (g)   A detailed site plan, suitable for recording, showing the
physical layout, design and purpose of all Streets, easements, rights of way,
utility lines and facilities, Lots, block, public and common open space,
general Landscaping plan, Structure, including mobile homes, and Uses.
      (3)   Preliminary grading and site alteration plan illustrating changes
to existing topography and natural site vegetation. The Plan should clearly
reflect the site treatment and its conformance with the approved concept plan.
      (4)   A soil erosion control plan acceptable to watershed districts,
Department of Natural Resources, Natural Resources Conservation Service, or any
other agency with review authority, clearly illustrating erosion control
measures to be used during construction and as permanent measures.
   (J)   CITY COSTS
   The applicant shall make a deposit with the City for the purpose of
reimbursing any costs directly related to a given development. Such costs
include but are not limited to professional fees and expenses incurred by the
City for consultants (including but not limited to planners, engineers,
architects and Attorneys) who the City determines in its sole judgment are
necessary to assist in reviewing, implementing or enforcing the provisions of
this article. The amount of the deposit, and any addition to it that may the
City may later require, shall be established by the Planning Commission. The
City and the applicant may agree to share the costs of consultants based upon a
specific written agreement. Any funds not used by the City shall be returned to
the applicant at the conclusion of the project.
§ 157.025 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)    The clerk, or other Person appointed by the City Council, may inspect
any property that is the subject of any application under this chapter, with
either the permission of the Owner, resident or other Person in control of the
property, or after first obtaining an administrative search warrant as provided
for under §
10.20.
   (B)    An amendment to this zoning code may be initiated by the City Council
or by petition of affected property Owners. The requirements for public notice
and hearing contained in § 151.51 shall be followed. The zoning code may be
amended by a majority vote of all of the members of the City Council. The
adoption of an amendment which changes all or part of the existing
classification of a Zoning District from residential to either Commercial or
industrial requires a two-thirds majority vote of all members of the City
Council.
   (C)   Hearing. The Zoning Administrator shall refer the application to the
Planning Commission for consideration at its next regular meeting; provided
however, if the next regular meeting of the Planning Commission is within seven
days of the date of filing, then such consideration may be at the second
regular meeting after said filing. At that meeting, the Planning Commission
shall set a date for a public hearing in the manner provided in §
157.024 on said application. The public hearing shall be no more than 60 days
after the date of filing of the application with the Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   The applicant or their representative may appear at the public
hearing in order to answer questions concerning the proposed Use.
   (D)   Planning Commission report.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall make its report on the application to
the Council, in writing, within 60 days after the public hearing, unless the
applicant consents to extended consideration by the Planning Commission. The
report shall recommend that the amendment be granted or denied and shall
include the Planning Commission’s recommendation as to any conditions to be
imposed if the amendment is granted, including time limits or provisions for
periodic review and shall state the reasons therefor.
      (2)   The Planning Commission’s report shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator who shall refer the same to the Council for consideration at its
next regular meeting; provided however, if the next regular meeting of the
Council is within seven days of the date of filing, then such consideration may
be at the second regular meeting after said filing. At the same time, the
Zoning Administrator shall mail to the applicant a copy of the Planning
Commission’s report and a notice of the time and place of the meeting at which
the report will be considered by the Council.
      (3)   If the Planning Commission fails to file a report with the Zoning
Administrator within the time provided by this section, the application shall
be referred to the Council as herein provided, without report, after the time
for filing the report has expired.
   (E)   Council action on application.
      (1)   The Council shall make its decision on the application within 60
days of the filing of the Planning Commission’s report with the Zoning
Administrator or after the last day for filing same, if no report is filed. The
Council shall make written findings and shall state therein the reasons for its
decision. Any such order shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator who shall
immediately mail a copy thereof, bearing the notation of the filing date, to
the applicant.
      (2)   In the event such order directs amendment of this chapter, the
Zoning Administrator shall refer the order to the City Attorney to prepare an
amendment of the zoning ordinance as provided by law.
   (F)   Re-application. No re-application for zoning amendment shall be
resubmitted for a period of six months from the date of the denial of a
previous application.
   (G)   Specific tracts. Any application for amendment to this chapter which
relates to a specific tract of land shall be considered an application for a
Planned Unit Development permit under the provisions of § 157.024 and the
provisions of that section relating to applications for permit and review
thereof shall be controlling over the provisions of this section, except where
the application for amendment involves only a change in the boundaries of
existing Zoning Districts or reclassification of land from one existing zoning
classification to another existing classification.
   (H)   Zoning and the Comprehensive Plan. Any amendment to this chapter shall
amend the Comprehensive Plan in accordance therewith. The Planning Commission
shall inform the Council of any zoning proposal which does not conform to the
Comprehensive Plan and inform the Council as to why the plan should or should
not be amended.
   (I)   Zoning change not conforming to Comprehensive Plan. Prior to approval
of any zoning change not conforming to the Comprehensive Plan, a public hearing
shall be conducted by the Planning Commission and the results noted in the
minutes of the official proceedings. The public hearing required for the zoning
change or amendment may also serve as the public hearing for an amendment to
the Comprehensive Plan.
   (J)   In granting or recommending any rezoning provided for in this chapter,
the Zoning Administrator, the Planning Commission or Council shall find that
the proposed development conforms substantially to the policies, goals and
standards of the Comprehensive Plan.
§ 157.026 PERMITS.
   (A)   Building permits and the Building Codes.
      (1)   No Structure shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered
until a Building permit shall have been issued, indicating that the existing or
proposed Structure and the Use of the land comply with this chapter and all
Building Codes.
      (2)   Building permits shall not be issued unless the proposed
improvement meets all of the requirements of the Building Code.
      (3)   No site preparation work, including rough grading, driveway
construction, footing excavation, tree removal or other physical changes to the
site shall occur prior to the issuance of a Building permit and other zoning
Use permits.
      (4)   Applications for permits as required by this section shall be made
to the Zoning Administrator or Building Inspector on forms to be furnished by
them. The Zoning Administrator or Building Inspector shall maintain a record of
all applications for and all permits issued under this section.
         (i)   Application for a Building permit shall be accompanied by a site
plan drawn to scale showing the dimensions of the Lot to be built upon, the
size and location of the Building, utilities including on-site septic systems
and Accessory Buildings to be erected, the vegetation and major topographic
changes and drawings of the improvement in sufficient detail to permit checking
against the Building Code, and such other information as the Zoning
Administrator or Building Inspector may reasonably require to determine
compliance with this chapter and the Building Code. In some cases, the Zoning
Administrator may require a certificate of survey before a Building permit will
be issued.
         (ii)   Erosion and sediment control plan. Every applicant must adhere
to erosion control measure standards and specifications in strict conformance
with the provisions of this chapter and the City’s Engineering and Design
Guidelines document. Erosion and sediment control plans shall also be
consistent with the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System General
Permit, as amended, and the filing or approval requirements of relevant
Watershed Districts, Watershed Management Organizations, Soil and Water
Conservation Districts, or other regulatory bodies. No land shall be disturbed
until the plan is approved by the City Engineer and conforms to the standards
set forth herein.
         (iii)   Stormwater management plan. Every applicant must adhere to
stormwater management standards and specifications in strict conformance with
the provisions of this chapter and the City’s Engineering and Design Guidelines
document. Stormwater management plans shall also be consistent with the
national Pollutant Discharge Elimination System General Permit, as amended, and
the filing or approval requirements of relevant Watershed Districts, Watershed
Management Organizations, Soil and Water Conservation Districts, or other
regulatory bodies. No land shall be disturbed until the plan is approved by the
City Engineer and conforms to the standards set forth herein.
      (5)   No Building permit shall be issued for any improvement which would
result in a Use, Building or Structure in violation of this chapter or the
Subdivision, shoreland management, floodplain, sanitary sewer disposal, Mining
or other City ordinance.
      (6)   The work for which a Building permit is issued shall commence
within 60 days after the date thereof unless an application for an extension of
90 days has been submitted to the Building Inspector and approved by them. The
work shall be completed within one year of the date of issuance.
      (7)   Permits issued by the Zoning Administrator or Building Inspector
under the provisions of this section and the Building Code shall expire and be
null and void if the work authorized by a permit is abandoned or suspended for
a period of 120 days or in the event that work is not commenced or completed
within the time limitations of division (A)(6) above.
      (8)   The Building Inspector may, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit
issued under the provisions of this chapter and the Building Code whenever such
permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or
in violation of any City ordinance, regulation or code.
   (B)   Moving permits. No Building or Structure which has been wholly or
partially erected shall be moved to any other location within the City unless a
permit to move said Building or Structure has been obtained or provided herein.
Any such Building or Structure proposed to be moved shall meet all requirements
of the Building Code applicable to a new Building or Structure. This division
(B) shall not apply to construction sheds, Agricultural Buildings or temporary
Structures to be located on a Lot for 12 months or less.
   (C)   Septic permits. In areas without public sewer facilities, no Building
permit for any Use requiring On-Site Sewage Treatment and disposal shall be
issued until a septic permit has first been issued. A septic permit shall be
issued only after proof is furnished by the applicant that a suitable On-Site
Sewage Treatment and disposal system can be installed on the site. Such system
shall conform to all of the requirements of
Chapter 52, including percolation tests and borings. Such system shall conform
to all of the requirements of the county's on-site subsurface sewage treatment
and disposal regulations.
   (D)   Driveway access permits. A driveway access permit to a public road
shall be secured from the public agency with jurisdiction and maintenance
responsibilities over the road, prior to the issuance of a Building permit.
   (E)   Grading. No Person shall do any grading without first having obtained
a grading permit from the Building Inspector except for the following:
      (1)   Grading in an isolated, self contained area if there is no danger
apparent to private or public property;
      (2)   An excavation below finished grade for Basements and footings of a
Building, retaining wall or other Structure authorized by a valid Building
permit. This shall not exempt any Fill made with the material from such
excavation nor exempt any excavation having an unsupported height greater than
five feet after the completion of such Structure;
      (3)   Cemetery graves;
      (4)   Refuse disposal sites controlled by other regulations;
      (5)   Excavations for wells or tunnels or utilities;
      (6)   Mining, quarrying, excavating, processing, stockpiling of rock,
sand, gravel, aggregate or clay where established and provided for by law
provided such operations do not affect the lateral support or increase the
stresses in or pressure upon any adjacent or contiguous property;
      (7)   Exploratory excavations under the direction of soil engineers or
engineering geologists;
      (8)   An excavation which is less than two feet in depth or which does
not create a cut slope greater than five feet in height and steeper than one
and one-half horizontal to one vertical; or
      (9)    A Fill less than one foot in depth, and placed on natural terrain
with a slope flatter than five horizontal to one vertical, or less than three
feet in depth, not intended to support Structures, which does not exceed 50
cubic yards on any one Lot and does not obstruct a drainage course.
      (10)   All land disturbing activities which disturb more than 50 cubic
yards but do not exceed 5,000 cubic yards shall require a grading permit.
      (11)   Any land disturbing activity which exceeds 5,000 cubic yards shall
require a Conditional Use Permit
   (F)   Sign permits. Sign permits shall be required as stated in §
157.091.
§ 157.027 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No Person may change the Use of any land (except for agricultural
purposes or for construction of Essential Services and transmission lines), or
occupy a new or structurally altered Building Used for non-Agricultural Use,
after the effective date of this chapter, unless they have first obtained a
Certificate of Occupancy.
   (B)   Application for a Certificate of Occupancy for a new Building or for
an existing Building which has been so altered may be filed with the Building
Inspector any time after the application for a Building permit for such
Building. The Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued within ten days after
the construction or alteration of such Building or part thereof has been
completed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter and the Building
Code. Pending the issuance of said certificate, a temporary Certificate of
Occupancy may be issued, subject to the provisions of the Building Code, for a
period not to exceed 12 months during the completion of the erection or the
alteration of such a Building. The temporary certificate shall not be construed
as in any way altering the respective rights, duties or obligations of the
Owners or of the City relating to the Use or occupancy of the premises or any
other matter except under such restrictions and provisions as will adequately
insure the safety of the occupants. The Use of any Structure for which a
Building permit is required shall be considered a violation of this chapter
unless a Certificate of Occupancy has been issued.
   (C)   Application for a Certificate of Occupancy for a new Use of land shall
be made to the Building Inspector before any such land shall be so Used. Such
Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued within ten days after this application
if the Use is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   A record of all applications for and certificates of occupancy shall
be kept on file.
§ 151.61 RECORD OF DECISIONS.
   The Council may provide that a record be made of its proceedings concerning
its actions on any application for a permit, zoning ordinance amendment, or
appeal. This record may include the minutes of the meeting, the findings of the
Council and the action taken.
§ 157.028 FEES.
   As provided by M.S. § 462.353, Subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to
time, fees may be established as follows:
      (A)   The Council may in a separate ordinance, or in the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges, prescribe fees sufficient to defray the costs
incurred in reviewing, investigating, and administering applications for an
amendment to the provisions of this chapter and to all Official Maps, and
applications for a permit, a Variance or for some other approval required under
this chapter. (A)   
      (B)   Applicants for any site plan, Conditional Use permit, land Use
permit, Variance, or for any other City approval required by this chapter, or
to amend this chapter must pay the applicable application fee and costs
incurred in accordance with the current City fee schedule, as amended, as
authorized by Minn. Stat. §462.353 Subd. 4.
   (B)   These fees must be fair, reasonable and proportionate to the actual
cost of the service for which the fee is imposed. The City shall adopt
management and accounting procedures to ensure that fees are maintained and
Used only for the purpose for which they are collected.
   (C)    If a dispute arises over a specific fee imposed by a City, the amount
of the fee must be deposited and held in escrow, and the Person aggrieved by
the fee may appeal to district court as provided by M.S. § 462.361, as it may
be amended from time to time. The application shall proceed as if the fee had
been paid, pending a decision by the court.
   Municipal corporations and governmental agencies shall be exempt from the
fee requirements above.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 151.64 CERTIFICATION OF TAXES PAID.
   Prior to approving an application for any City land Use permit, the
applicant shall provide certification to the City that there are no delinquent
property taxes, special assessments, unpaid utility charges certified for
payment as taxes, interest, or City utility fees due upon the parcel of land to
which the land Use permit relates.
§ 157.029 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (EAW) AND IMPACT STATEMENTS (EIS).
   (A)   No zoning, Building permit, Structure or land Use, Variance or
ordinance amendment shall be approved prior to review by the Zoning
Administrator to determine the necessity for completion of a state
environmental assessment worksheet (EAW) as required by the State Environmental
Quality Board Regulations (1977).
   (B)   The purpose of an EAW is to assess rapidly, in a worksheet format,
whether a proposed action is a major action with the potential for significant
environmental effects, or in the case of a private action, whether it is of
more than local significance.
   (C)   Projects which shall be required to file a mandatory environmental
assessment worksheet (EAW) shall include:
      (1)   Construction of a new industrial park of more than 320 acres in
size;
      (2)   An action that will eliminate or significantly alter a wetland of
type 3, 4 or 5 (as defined in United States Department of Interior, Fish and
Wildlife Service, Circular 39, Wetlands of the United States, 1956) of five or
more acres either singly or in a complex of two or more wetlands;
      (3)   Construction of a new or additional residential development that
includes 100 or more units in an unsewered area or 500 or more units in a
sewered area;
      (4)   Construction of a residential development consisting of 50 or more
residential units, any part of which is within a shoreland area;
      (5)   Conversion of 240 or more contiguous acres of forest cover to a
different land Use.
   (D)   An option EAW may be required by the City Zoning Administrator or City
Council or by any project applicant on any proposed action to determine if the
project has the potential for significant environmental effects or if the
project is of more than City significance, provided any of the following
situations exist:
      (1)   The proposed project is in or near an area recognized in the City
Comprehensive Plan as being environmentally sensitive due to steep slopes,
bluffline, exposed bedrock, floodplain or wetlands, streams or drainage areas,
ground water, erodible soils, prime agricultural soils or unique vegetation;
      (2)   The proposed project is in or near an area of natural aesthetics,
scenic views, delineated critical area or unique natural beauty as recognized
by the Comprehensive Plan, Planning Commission or City Council;
      (3)   The proposed project significantly alters existing traffic patterns
or increases the noise level on such roads or Streets by more than 10%;
      (4)   The proposed project is adjacent to or near a public recreation
land or facility and alters or increases Use, noise levels, traffic or degrades
air quality or natural aesthetics as viewed from the facility;
      (5)   The project proposed is the construction of a new industrial park
of over 100 acres in size;
      (6)   The proposed project is the construction of a facility or integral
group of facilities with at least 100,000 square feet of Commercial or retail
floor space or at least 100,000 square feet of industrial floor space, or a
mixture of Commercial, industrial and retail floor space totaling at least
100,000 square feet, unless located in an approved area for which an EIS has
already been prepared;
      (7)   The proposed project is construction or opening of a facility for
Mining and/or processing of gravel, sand, other non- metallic minerals and
fuels involving more than 50 acres; or
      (8)   The proposed project involves the construction of new or additional
residential Subdivisions that include 50 or more Lots in an unsewered area.
   (E)   The City Zoning Administrator or City Council shall prepare or cause
to be prepared by consultants, an environmental assessment worksheet which is
mandatory or optionally required. The project proposer shall provide the Zoning
Administrator with sufficient detailed information to complete the worksheet or
shall submit a draft worksheet. If sufficient detailed information is not made
available from the project proper or if the Zoning Administrator cannot
complete the EAW because of time or interest conflicts, the Zoning
Administrator may utilize professional consultants to gather necessary
information and to complete the worksheet.
   (F)   Upon completion of said worksheet, the Zoning Administrator shall
write a recommended finding from the worksheet on whether or not there are
significant environmental effects or effects of more than local significance
which shall require a state environmental impact statement.
   (G)   The Zoning Administrator shall submit the environmental assessment
worksheet and his or her recommendation finding to the Planning Commission at
its next regular meeting or special meeting before the next regularly scheduled
board meeting. After reviewing the Zoning Administrator’s written findings, the
Planning Commission shall recommend to the City Council whether or not there
are significant environmental effects from the project to require the writing
of an impact statement. The Planning Commission may hear appeals of the Zoning
Administrator’s recommendation at this meeting.
   (H)   Within 45 days of the date the project proponent filed a planning
request, the City Council shall have reviewed any appeals, the Zoning
Administrator’s written finding, the Planning Commission recommendation and
shall have forwarded its final decision on the necessity for preparing an
environmental impact statement to the State Environmental Quality Board to be
officially published in the Environmental Quality Board Monitor.
   (I)   Copies of the Zoning Administrator’s written findings on the worksheet
and the City Council’s final decision shall be mailed to all points on the
official Environmental Quality Board distribution list and to adjacent counties
and municipalities likely to be directly impacted by the proposed project. The
Zoning Administrator shall also submit an affidavit certifying the date and
places copies of the worksheet were submitted.
   (J)   Thirty days after the date of the publication of the City Council’s
decision in the Environmental Quality Board Monitor, if no objections are filed
with the EQB, the decision stands.
   (K)   If preparation of an EIS is required, the proponent shall follow the
procedure outlined in the State Quality Board regulations concerning
environmental impact statements. A draft impact statement, as prepared by or
under the direction of the Zoning Administrator, shall be prepared and filed
with the EQB within 120 days of the decision to require an environmental impact
statement.
   (L)   Any proposed project or Use on which an EIS is required shall be
considered a Conditional Use as defined in this chapter and shall comply with
the procedure for approval of a Conditional Use permit. Mitigating
recommendations of the EIS shall be incorporated as conditions of issuance on
the Conditional Use permit.
   (M)   Time delays in the normal permit process caused by the filing and
review of the EAW and/or EIS shall not be considered part of the permit
approval time requirements within this chapter. Such delays shall be considered
as additional required time for each required permit. The permit process for
the proposed project may be continued from the point it was interrupted by the
Worksheet/EIS process.
   (N)   Construction begun on projects requiring an EAW shall be halted at
such time as an EIS is officially required by the Environmental Quality Board
or City Council regulations.
   (O)   Any applicant shall agree in writing as part of his or her application
to reimburse the City Council prior to the issuance of any permits, for all
reasonable costs, including legal and consultant fees incurred by the City
Council in review of the applicant’s project and its impact on the City.
   (P)   The applicant shall deposit with the City from time to time an amount
determined by the Zoning Administrator, necessary to cover such costs prior to
commencement of the review or stage of the review. The applicant shall
reimburse the security fund for any deficits caused if the amount actually
expended or billed to the City by the consultants exceeds the security fund
balance. The City shall refund any money deposited in the security fund and not
expended within 30 days after final action on the application. The City shall
not pay interest on such security deposits.
Penalty, see §
157.999
ZONING DISTRICTS, PERMITTED USES AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
§ 157.040 DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Basic Zoning Districts. For the purpose of this chapter, the City is
hereby divided into the following basic zoning Use districts:
District Symbol Intent and Primary Use
District Symbol Intent and Primary Use
                Preserve land to be utilized for interim agriculture and
                Commercial food production on Lots smaller than those required
A-1             in CFP Districts. A-1 Districts provide areas of rural Lot
                density housing with Lots large enough for significant
                agricultural activity to occur.
                Provide rural low density housing in agricultural districts on
A-2             lands not capable of supporting long term, permanent Commercial
                food production. A-2 District Lot sizes will provide for
                marginal agriculture and hobby farming.
                Preserve, protect and manage environmentally sensitive areas
C               having wet soils, steep slopes, exposed bedrock or unique
                natural and biological characteristics in accordance with
                compatible Uses.
                Provide districts for a general mix of Commercial Businesses.
GB              General Business Districts will be located in areas where there
                is a demand for diversified Business districts and in areas
                capable of supplying the utilities for such development.
                Provide areas adjacent to major thoroughfares and in areas
                where public utilities are available for the express Use of
I               industrial developments. Designation of Industrial Districts
                will help attract industry; and therefore, stabilize the tax
                base and increase the employment of the City.
                Residential-Business Transitional. The purpose of a residential
                Business transitional district and intent is to provide a
                limited area within the City of Lake St. Croix Beach to allow
RBT             for the transition of land Use from existing or abandoned
                public utilities and facilities and Essential Services and
                adjacent vacant land thereto to low-intensity Business
                activities that are compatible with and complementary to
                neighboring residential properties.
                Provide areas capable of supporting Multiple-Family Dwellings
MF              in terms of public utilities and services, and thereby allowing
                a variety of housing types in greater densities.
                Provide low density residential areas in rapidly developing
                rural settings. R-1 Districts will provide Lots large enough to
R-1             maintain a semi-rural setting, but Lots not large enough to
                support Commercial agriculture. R-1 Districts will provide a
                buffer between agricultural districts and urban, or rapidly
                developing districts.
                Provide larger residential Lots for the construction of single
                Family homes of a minimum of 1,200 square feet of finished and
                habitable space. R-2 districts will require Lots large enough
R-2             to support on-site sewer systems until such time as public
                sewer and other utilities are available. Homes in R-2 District
                shall be constructed with a minimum of a two-car attached
                Garage.
R-3             Provide residential suburban Lots for those people who desire
                larger Lots than provided for in an urban area.
R-4             Provide residential urban Lots in areas where the full range of
                public utilities and services are available.
                Provide land for Retail Business, primarily shopping, in areas
RB              where there is, or will be, the greatest demand for such
                services and in areas capable of supporting the intensive Use
                of the land demanded by Retail Businesses.
 
   (B)   Overlay zoning Use districts. At the time of adoption of this chapter
or at some future date, the City Council may adopt overlay districts to promote
specific orderly development or to protect some specific sensitive natural
resource.
      (1)   The following overlay regulations are in addition to regulations
imposed by the existing basic zoning Use districts:
 
District Symbol Intent and Primary Use
AZ              Protect life from potential aircraft catastrophe and noise by
                restricting development in Airport Zones.
                Preserve Commercial agriculture as a viable permanent land Use
CFP             and a significant economic activity within the City. Areas
                designated CFP would provide land area for permanent
                economically viable Commercial food production.
                Protect the natural environment, homes and other Structures
FP              from flood waters by preserving the natural overflow areas of
                lakes, streams and rivers.
                Allow innovative and flexible design for developments that are
PUD             more sympathetic to both humans and nature, and which are not
                possible under current regulations.
 
      (2)   The following overlay regulations are in lieu of regulations
imposed by the existing basic zoning Use districts:
 
District Symbol Intent and Primary Use
                Protect the ecological and scenic values of natural,
LS-1            undeveloped water bodies from the harmful effects of
                development.
LS-2            Protect the recreational value of a water body while allowing
                residential development along the shoreline.
LS-3            Encourage development on those water bodies currently being
                developed for residential and recreational Uses.
                Protect the environmentally sensitive qualities of the
                Mississippi River Corridor Critical Area yet maintain the
MR              economic importance of the corridor by guiding industrial,
                Commercial, residential and recreational developments as well
                as transportation throughout the Mississippi River Corridor.
                Conserve and protect the natural scenic values and resources of
SCR             the St. Croix River Valley in order to maintain the high
                standard of environmental quality indicative of one of the few
                remaining wild rivers in the nation.
 
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.041 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    Minimum dimensional requirements by Zoning District.
District R-1 R-2 R-3 R-B RBT
District           R-1                 R-2                 R-3    R-B    RBT
Lot Area           2.5 AC              20,000              16,000 --
Maximum height     35                  35                  35     35
*Minimum Floor
Area per Dwelling  960                 1,200               960    --
Unit (single-
Family)
Minimum Front Yard --                  30                  25     --
Setback
Minimum Frontage   --                  50
on Street
Minimum Lot Depth  --                  100                 100    --
Minimum non-
residential Lot    2.5 AC              --                  --     24,000 28,000
Area
Minimum Rear Yard  --                  20                  7      --
Setback
Minimum Side Yard  --                  --                  --     --
Setback
Front Interior Lot 7                   10                  7
line
Front Street in    --                  30                  25     --
case of Corner Lot
Minimum Width per  21* with continuous 21* with continuous 21*    21*
Dwelling           roof                roof
* Floor Area refers to finished and habitable space for which a Certificate of
Occupancy can be issued.
 
   (B)   Additions and exceptions to minimum area, height and other
requirements.
      (1)   Exemption. Any such Lot or parcel created in accordance with
Chapter 156 and is at least two and one-half acres in size, shall be exempt
from the requirements of divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) below and shall be
considered Buildable if the Lot or parcel can comply with the remaining
requirements of this division (B).
      (2)   Undersize Lots. Any such Lot or parcel of land less than two and
one-half acres which is in a residential or agricultural district may be Used
for Single-Family Detached Dwelling purposes provided the area and Width
thereof are within 60% of the minimum requirements of this section; provided
all Setback requirements of this chapter can be maintained; and provided it can
be demonstrated that a safe and adequate sewage treatment system can be
installed to serve such permanent Dwelling.
      (3)   Group Lots. If in a group of two or more contiguous Lots or parcels
of land owned or controlled by the same Person, any individual Lot or parcel
does not meet the full Width or area requirements of this chapter, such
individual Lot or parcel cannot be considered as a separate parcel of land for
purposes of sale or development, but must be combined with adjacent Lots or
parcels under the same ownership so that the combination of Lots or parcels
will equal one or more parcels of land each meeting the full Lot Width and area
requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   Subdivision of Lots. Any Lot or parcel of land subdivided by any
means after the effective date of this chapter for purposes of erecting a
Structure, must be approved as required by
Chapter 156.
      (5)   Lake and stream Frontage Lots. All Lots having Frontage on a lake
or stream shall be subject to the provisions of
Chapter 153 as well as the regulations provided by this chapter. All Lots on
unclassified bodies of water in Chapter 153 shall meet the minimum Setback
requirements for a general development lake, except as provided in
Chapter 153.
      (6)   Lots in the floodplain. All Lots in a designated floodplain shall
be subject to
Chapter 152 as well as the regulations provided by this chapter.
      (7)   Reduction of required Yard of Lot size prohibited. No Yard shall be
reduced in area or dimension so as to make it less than the minimum required by
this chapter, and if the existing Yard is less than the minimum required, it
shall not be further reduced. No required Yard currently used for a Building or
Dwelling group shall be used to satisfy minimum Lot Area requirements for any
other Building.
      (8)   Sloping or erodible Building sites. On sites with slopes of greater
than 25% or on easily erodible soils as defined on the City soils maps and
compiled by the County Soils Conservation District, no Structure shall be
constructed. (Also see §
157.106.)
      (9)   Heavily wooded sites. On any Lot, clear cutting shall require a
Conditional Use permit. A Certificate of Compliance shall be required for all
cutting on all slopes in excess of 18%. On such slopes, a revegetation plan
shall also be required prior to issuance of a Building permit. (See §§
157.106 and
157.112.)
      (10)   Minimum area requirements for Lots without public sanitary sewer.
A Building permit shall not be issued for a Lot which either does not meet the
minimum acres of acceptable soils for onsite sewage treatment; or does not have
enough acceptable soils within the Lot or under legal contract to construct at
least two complete septic/drainfield treatment systems.
      (11)   High-rise Multiple Dwelling Structures.
         (a)   The density standards applicable to Multiple Dwellings in
Structures exceeding three and one-half stories in height shall be as follows:
 
Number of Stories Lot Area Required Per Dwelling Unit
3-1/2 - 6         2,000 square feet
6 – 12          1,500 square feet
12+               1,000 square feet
 
         (b)   Said requirements shall apply regardless of the number of
bedrooms per Dwelling Unit.
   (C)   Permitted encroachments on required Yards. The following shall be
permitted encroachments into Setback and height requirements, except as
restricted by other sections of this chapter:
      (1)   In any Yards: posts, off-Street parking, flues, leaders, sills,
pilasters, lintels, cornices, eaves (up to three feet), gutters, awnings, open
terraces, steps, chimneys, flag poles, open fire escapes, sidewalks, Fences,
Essential Services, exposed ramps (wheelchair), uncovered porches, stoops or
similar features provided they do not extend above the height of the ground
floor level of the Principal Structure or to a distance less than three feet
from any Lot line nor less than one foot from any existing or proposed
driveway; Yard lights and nameplate Signs; trees, shrubs, plants; floodlights
or other sources of light illuminating authorized illuminated Signs, or light
standards for illuminating parking areas, loading areas or Yards for safety and
security reasons, provided the direct source of light is not visible from the
public right-of-way or adjacent residential property.
      (2)   In Side and Rear Yards: Fences 25% open; walls and hedges six feet
in height or less; bays not to exceed a depth of three feet or containing an
area of more than 30 square feet; fire escapes not to exceed a width of three
feet.
      (3)   On a Corner Lot: nothing shall be placed or allowed to grow in such
a manner as materially to impede vision between a height of two and one-half
and ten feet above the centerline grades of the intersecting Streets within 100
feet of such intersection.
      (4)   In no event shall off-Street parking, Structures of any type,
Buildings or other improvements cover more than 75% of the Lot Areas. In no
event shall the landscaped portion of the Lot be less than 25% of the entire
Lot as a result of permitted encroachments.
   (D)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Front Setbacks. Where a vacant Buildable Lot is adjacent to
Structures existing at the time of adoption of this chapter having a
substandard Setback from that required by this section, the Zoning
Administrator shall determine a reasonable, average, calculated Front Yard
Setback to implement the requirements of this section, and to fulfill its
purpose and intent. However, in no case shall a Building be required to be
Setback more than 180 feet from the Street centerline, except where an
industrial district is adjacent to a Residential District. In a Residential
District, the Front Yard Setback shall conform to the established Setback Line,
unless the Zoning Administrator determines that another Setback is more
appropriate as provided herein.
      (2)   Side and rear Setbacks. Subject to regulations contained in the
Building Code and other applicable regulations, side and rear Setback
requirements may be waived provided party walls are used and the adjacent
Buildings are constructed as an integral unit and are part of an approved
Shopping Center, Townhouse development or other similar development. Such
waiver shall only be by issuance of a Conditional Use permit.
      (3)   Setbacks adjacent to residential areas. Where a Commercial district
is adjacent to a Residential District, the minimum Commercial Building Setback
from the Lot line shall be 35 feet. In the case of industrial districts, such a
minimum Setback shall be 75 feet.
      (4)   Setbacks along arterials. Along roads and Streets designated as
“Arterials” in the Comprehensive Plan, the minimum front Setback for principal
Buildings shall be 150 feet from the nearest planned Street centerline.
      (5)   Setbacks from private roads. All Setback requirements of this
section shall also be applicable to private roads and easement access rights-
of-way.
   (E)   Height.
      (1)   No Structure shall exceed 45 feet in height, including Church
spires, bellfries, cupolas and domes, monuments, chimneys and smokestacks, flag
poles, public facilities, transmission towers of private radio broadcasting
stations, television antennae, except barns, silos and other farm Structures,
utility transmission services and transmission towers of Commercial
broadcasting stations.
      (2)   Parapet walls shall not extend more than four feet above the height
permitted of the Buildings.
   (F)   Cluster Development standards. The purpose of this section is to
provide a method by which parcels of land in the Residential, A-1 and A-
2 Districts having unusual Building characteristics due to sub-soil conditions,
elevation of water table, water area, relative location or shape of the parcel,
may be more efficiently used.
      (1)   Cluster Development may also provide a means to preserve good
agricultural land, open green space, scenic views and other desirable features
of the natural environment.
      (2)   The Owner of any tract of land in any Residential, A- 1 and A-
2 District may submit a plan on the Use and development of such tract of land
as a Cluster Development to the City Council for a Conditional Use permit
authorizing completion of the project according to the plan.
      (3)   The plan for the proposed project shall conform to the requirements
of the Use district within which the plan is located, except as hereinafter
provided:
         (a)    The entire tract of land for which a Cluster Development is
proposed shall not be less than three acres in size;
         (b)   The applicant shall state precisely the unusual characteristics
of the land or other reason justifying the granting of a Conditional Use permit
for a Cluster Development;
         (c)   A preliminary plat shall be submitted that complies with
Chapter 156;
         (d)   The number of Dwelling Units proposed for the entire site shall
not exceed the total number of permitted for the R-1, A-1 or A-2 Districts
within which the land is located, in all other Residential Districts, including
R-2, R-3, R-4 and Multiple-Family Districts with public sewer and water, the
number of Dwelling Units shall not exceed 50% more than the total number of
Dwelling Units permitted if the development was based on the minimum Lot size
requirements for single-Family residential Subdivision.
         (e)   That land which is to be set aside as common land shall be
clearly identified and dedicated as such on the plan. Provisions shall be
required for continual maintenance of any common land not dedicated as public
property and accepted by the City.
§ 157.042 ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of the districts as established by this chapter are as
shown on the map published herewith and made part of this chapter, said map is
designated as the official zoning map of the City and shall be maintained as
provided herein by the City Zoning Administrator. The district boundary lines
on said map are intended to follow Street right-of-way lines, Street
centerlines or Lot lines unless such boundary line is otherwise indicated on
the map. In the case of unsubdivided property or in any case where Street or
Lot lines are not used as boundaries, the district boundary lines shall be
determined by use of dimensions or the scale appearing on the map. All of the
notations, references and other information shown thereon shall have the same
force and effect as if fully set forth herein and are hereby made a part of
this chapter by reference and incorporated herein as fully as if set forth
herein at length, whenever any Street or other public way is vacated, any
Zoning District line following the centerline of said vacated Street or way
shall not be affected by such vacation.
   (B)   When any permit is issued for a Planned Unit Development or any other
permit which affects any Zoning District in a substantial way, said permit
shall be coded and noted on the Zoning District map by the Zoning Administrator
so as to clearly indicate the Use so permitted which may not otherwise be
clearly evident from the map or text of this chapter.
   (C)   When Uses in a district are listed as both permitted and as
Conditional Uses, or when any other conflict appears in this chapter with
respect to permitted Uses within a district, the more restrictive portion shall
be applied.
   Where any proposed Use for any district is not listed in Section
157.043, the City Council may require the proponent of that Use to proceed
under provision of this ordinance applicable to that similar Use. Where any
proposed Use for any district is not listed in Section
157.043 and is determined by the City Council not to be similar in character to
any Use listed therein, that proposed Use shall not be allowed in that
district. Such a determination by the City Council shall not preclude the
proponent of the Use from making immediate application to the City for
Amendment of the Ordinance pursuant to Section
157.025 of this Ordinance.
§ 157.043 USES IN CONSERVANCY, AGRICULTURAL, RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL AND
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
Use         Zoning District
(Key)
P=
Permitted
C=
Conditional
Use permit
and public
hearing                 Comm
CC=                     Food
Certificate Conservancy Prod Agricultural Residential Residential Commercial Commercial Commercial Industrial 
of                      (CFP A1 & A2      R1 & R2     R3 and R4   (RBT )     (RB)       (GB)
Compliance              )
A=
Permitted
Accessory
Use
N= Not
permitted
*= N in R-
1C in R-2
Use                                                            Zoning District
(Key)
P= Permitted                                                               Comm
C= Conditional Use permit and public hearing                               Food Agricultural Residential Residential Commercial Commercial Commercial
CC= Certificate of Compliance                                  Conservancy Prod A1 & A2      R1 & R2     R3 and R4   (RBT )     (RB)       (GB)       Industrial 
A= Permitted Accessory Use                                                 (CFP
N= Not permitted                                                           )
*= N in R-1C in R-2
Accessory Apartment                                            C           N    C            C           C           N          N          N          N
Agriculture - rural (see §                                    C           P    P            P           C           N          N          N          P
157.108)
Agriculture - suburban (see §                                 C           P    P            P           P           N          N          N          P
157.108)
Airports, airstrip, heliports (see § 157.046)                 N           N    C            N           N           N          N          N          C
Animals - Commercial training                                  N           C    C            N           N           N          N          N          C
Animals - domestic farm                                        N           P    P            C           N           N          N          N          N
Antennae or towers over 45 feet in height (as permitted by §  N           C    C            C           N           N          C          C          C
157.041(E))
Archery range - Commercial outdoors                            C           N    C            N           N           N          N          N          C
Armories, convention halls and similar Uses                    N           N    N            N           N           N          C          C          C
Apartment Buildings (see §                                    N           N    N            C           C           N          N          N          N
157.100)
Auto/car wash                                                  N           N    N            N           N           N          C          C          C
Auto Reduction Yard; Junk Yard                                 N           N    C            N           N           N          N          N          C
Automobile Repair                                              N           N    N            N           N           N          N          CC         CC
Automobil e Service Station (see §                            N           N    N            N           N           N          C          C          C
157.099)
Bars and taverns                                               N           N    C            N           N           N          CC         CC         CC
Blacktop or crushing equipment for highways                    N           N    C            N           N           N          N          N          C
Boarders (not more than 2)                                     A           A    A            A           A           N          N          N          N
Boarders (not more than 4)                                     N           A    A            N           N           N          N          N          N
Boat dock (non-Commercial) (see Chapters 2 & 7)                A           A    A            A           A           N          N          N          N
Boat, trailer, marine sales (enclosed )                        N           N    N            N           N           N          C          CC         N
Broadcasting studio                                            N           N    N            N           N           N          N          CC         N
Business - seasonal                                            N           C    C            C           C           N          C          C          C
Cafes and Restaurants                                          N           N    N            N           N           N          CC         CC         CC
Campgrounds, tents and tent trailers only (see §              C           C    C            C           N           N          N          N          N
157.098)
Care facility (see §                                          N           C    C            N           N           N          N          N          N
157.095(C))
Cemeteries                                                     N           N    C            C           C           N          N          N          N
Churches                                                       C           C    C            C           C           N          N          CC         N
Clearcutting (see §                                           N           C    C            C           N           N          N          N          C
157.112)
Clubs or Lodges                                                N           N    C            C           N           N          CC         CC         C
Cluster Developments                                           See §
                                                               157.102
Commercial recreation                                          C           N    C            C           N           N          CC         CC         C
Commercial schools                                             N           N    N            N           N           N          N          CC         N
Convents                                                       N           N    C            C           C           N          N          N          N
Disposal Areas - solid and liquid waste                        N           C    C            N           N           N          N          N          C
Domestic pets                                                  P           P    P            P           P           N          N          N          N
Drive-In Business (see §                                      N           N    N            N           N           N          C          C          N
157.084)
Essential Services - Government Uses, Buildings and Storage    C           C    C            C           C           N          CC         CC         CC
Essential Services - Transmission Services, Buildings and      C           C    C            C           C           N          C          C          CC
Storage
Explosives - manufacture, Storage (see §                      N           N    N            N           N           N          N          N          C
157.080)
Explosives - utilization (see §                               N           C    C            N           N           N          N          N          C
157.080)
Farm (see Agriculture)
Farm equipment sales                                           N           C    C            N           N           N          N          CC         CC
Feed Lots - Commercia l (see §                                N           C    C            N           N           N          N          N          C
157.108)
Fences (see §                                                 A           A    A            A           A           N          A          A          A
157.069)
Flammable gasses and liquids                                   N           C    C            N           N           N          N          N          C
(Business/distribution)
Forests                                                        P           P    P            P           P           N          CC         CC         CC
Fuel sales                                                     N           N    N            N           N           N          C          C          C
Funeral homes                                                  N           N    N            N           N           N          CC         CC         N
Garage - Private (see §                                       A           A    A            A           A           N          N          N          N
157.067)
Garage - Repair                                                N           N    N            N           N           N          N          CC         CC
Garage - Storage                                               N           N    N            N           N           N          N          CC         CC
Golf courses and country clubs                                 N           N    C            C           C           N          N          N          C
Grading                                                        See §
                                                               157.105
Greenhouses (Commercial production only)                       N           N    C            C           N           N          N          CC         C
Guest house (see §                                            CC          CC   CC           CC          CC          N          N          N          N
157.082)
Gun clubs                                                      N           N    C            N           N           N          N          N          C
Gun ranges                                                     N           N    C            N           N           N          N          N          C
Home Occupations (meeting criteria)                            CC          CC   CC           CC          CC          N          N          N          N
Home Occupations (not meeting criteria)                        N           N    C            C           C           N          N          N          N
Hotel or motel                                                 N           N    N            N           N           N          C          CC         C
Housing - student                                              N           C    C            C           C           N          N          N          N
Identification and nameplate Signs                             See § 157.091
Incidental repair                                              N           A    A            N           N           N          N          N          A
Information centers                                            N           N    CC           C           C           N          N          N          N
Institutional Housing                                          N           N    N            C           C           N          N          N          N
Interim Uses (see §                                           N           C    C            N           N           N          C          C          C
157.092)
Junk Yard                                                      N           N    C            N           N           N          N          N          C
Kennels - Commercial                                           N           C    C            N           N           N          N          N          C
Kennels - Private *(see note below)                            N           C    C            C           N           N          N          N          C
Land Reclamati on (see §                                      N           C    C            C           C           N          C          C          C
157.105)
Landscaping and decorative features (see §                    A           A    A            A           A           N          A          A          A
157.073)
Light assembly and packaging - no retail sales                 N           N    N            N           N           C          N          N          N
Lodging Room (not more than 1)                                 A           A    A            A           A           N          N          N          N
Lodging Room (not more than 4)                                 N           A    A            N           N           N          N          N          N
Manufacturing - General                                        N           N    N            N           N           N          N          C          CC
Manufacturing - Limited                                        N           N    N            N           N           N          N          CC         CC
Marina - including boat rental and the like                    N           N    C            C           N           N          N          C          N
(see Chapters 2 and 7)
Medical Uses                                                   N           N    C            C           C           N          CC         CC         N
Mining (see §                                                 C           C    C            N           N           N          N          N          C
157.107)
Mobile home - care facility (see §                            N           C    C            N           N           N          N          N          N
157.095(C ))
Mobile home - court/park (see §                               N           N    N            N           C           N          N          N          N
157.096)
Mobile home - temporary farm Dwelling
(see §                                                        N           C    C            N           N           N          N          N          N
157.095(D))
Motel or Hotel                                                 N           N    N            N           N           N          C          CC         N
Multiple- Family Dwellings (with central sewer)
(see §                                                        N           N    N            C           C           N          N          N          N
157.100)
Nature centers, private or public                              C           C    C            C           C           N          C          C          C
Nursery - Commercial (production of trees and shrubs)          CC          P    P            C           N           N          N          N          C
Nurseries - day and school                                     N           C    C            C           C           N          N          N          N
Nursery and garden supplies (exterior or enclosed sales)       N           N    N            N           N           N          CC         CC         CC
Offices                                                        N           N    N            N           N           C          CC         CC         CC
Off- Street loading (see §                                    N           N    N            N           N           N          A          A          A
157.077)
Off- Street parking (see § 157.076)                           A           A    A            A           A           N          A          A          A
Parks                                                          C           N    C            C           C           N          C          C          C
Photo, art studio                                              N           N    N            C           N           N          CC         CC         N
Planned Unit Developments                                      See §
                                                               157.024
Public enclosed rental Storage or garages                      N           N    N            N           N           N          CC         CC         CC
Race Tracks                                                    N           N    C            N           N           N          N          N          C
Railroad operations                                            N           N    C            N           N           N          N          N          C
Recreation areas – Commercial                                C           N    C            C           N           N          CC         CC         C
Recreation areas - private or semi-public                      C           N    C            C           C           N          N          N          N
Recreation Equipment Storage - Commercial                      N           N    C            N           N           N          C          C          C
Recreation Equipment Storage - private
(Side and Rear Yard only) (see §                              A           A    A            A           A           N          N          N          C
157.070)
Reduction or processing of refuse, trash and garbage           N           N    C            N           N           N          N          N          C
Rental of cars, trailers, campers, trucks and similar          N           N    N            N           N           N          C          C          C
equipment
Repair Garage                                                  N           N    N            N           N           N          N          CC         CC
Research                                                       N           C    N            N           N           N          N          C          C
Residential - Multiple-Family (with central sewer)
(see §                                                        N           N    N            C           C           N          N          N          N
157.100)
Residential - Single-Family Detached Dwellings
(see §                                                        CC          P    P            P           P           N          N          N          N
157.041(A))
Residential - Townhouse (see §                                C           C    C            C           C           N          N          N          N
157.101)
Residential - two Family Dwellings (Duplex)
(see §                                                        C           C    C            C           C           N          N          N          N
157.041(A))
Residential Rental – Short Term                              N           N    N            A           A           N          N          N          N
Residential waterfront Uses                                    A           A    A            A           A           N          N          N          N
Resorts                                                        C           N    C            C           N           N          N          N          N
Rest or Nursing Homes                                          N           N    N            C           C           N          N          CC         N
Retail Business                                                N           N    N            N           N           N          CC         CC         N
Riding stables                                                 C           C    C            C           N           N          N          N          N
Road side sales stand (seasonally operated)                    CC          CC   CC           N           N           N          N          N          N
Roads - private                                                See §
                                                               157.110
Sales - open Lot displays with on- site display office
(auto - see §                                                 N           N    N            N           N           N          C          C          N
157.093)
Sales - open Lot (outdoor) displays but no office              N           N    N            N           N           N          C          C          C
Schools - public and private                                   N           N    C            C           C           N          N          N          N
Service station (see §                                        N           N    N            N           N           N          C          C          C
157.099)
Signs - advertising (see §                                    N           N    N            N           N           C          C          C          CC
157.091)
Signs - other than permitted accessory Signs                   See §
                                                               157.091
Single- Family Detached Dwellings                              CC          P    P            P           P           N          N          N          N
Shopping Center                                                See §
                                                               157.103
Storage - as a Principal Use (see §                           N           C    C            C           N           N          N          C          CC
157.070)
Storage - hazardous materials                                  See §
                                                               157.079
Storage - highway construction equipment during construction   N           N    C            C           C           N          N          N          CC
Storage - normally incidenta l to the Principal Use
(see §                                                        A           A    A            A           N           A          N          A          N
157.070)
Storage - not accessory to a permitted Principal Use
(see §                                                        N           C    C            C           N           N          N          N          C
157.070)
Storage - open (see §                                                                                                                         
157.070)
Structure - historic, scenic, and the like                     C           C    C            C           C           N          C          C          C
Structure - temporary or interim Use (see §                   N           C    C            N           N           N          C          C          C
157.092)
Supper club                                                    N           N    C            C           N           N          C          C          C
Swimming pool - Commercial (see §                             N           N    N            C           C           N          N          N          N
157.090)
Swimming pool - residential (see §                            CC          CC   CC           CC          CC          N          N          N          N
157.090)
Taverns and Bars                                               N           N    0            N           N           N          CC         CC         CC
Temporary farm Dwelling (see §                                N           C    C            N           N           N          N          N          N
157.095(D ))
Terminal - transportation or Motor Freight                     N           N    N            N           N           N          N          CC         CC
Theater                                                        N           N    N            N           N           N          C          CC         N
Theater - Drive-In                                             N           N    C            N           N           N          N          N          C
Townhouse (see §                                              C           C    C            C           C           N          N          N          N
157.101)
Trailer/Recreation Vehicle (see §                             CC          CC   CC           CC          CC          N          N          N          N
157.097)
Trailer/Recreation Vehicle parks - seasonal Use
(see §                                                        C           C    C            C           N           N          N          N          N
157.098)
Truck and Automobile Service Station (see §                   N           N    N            N           N           N          C          C          C
157.099)
Used auto parts                                                N           N    N            N           N           N          N          CC         CC
Utility substations                                            C           C    C            C           C           N          C          C          C
Vegetative cutting                                             See §
                                                               157.112
Vehicle sales (enclosed ) (see §                              N           N    N            N           N           N          C          C          C
157.093)
Veterinary clinic                                              N           C    C            C           N           N          C          CC         CC
Warehousing                                                    N           N    N            N           N           N          N          CC         CC
Waterfront Uses - industrial, shipping and the like            N           N    C            N           N           N          N          C          C
Waterfront Uses - residential                                  A           A    A            A           A           N          N          N          N
Wholesale Business                                             N           N    N            N           N           N          N          CC         CC
Wildlife reserve - private or public                           P           P    P            N           N           N          N          N          C
Wooden boat restoration and repair                             N           N    N            N           N           N          C          C          C
* A Kennel Structure to contain Family pets does not require a Building permit but must meet all Setback requirements. (Check with Building Inspector as there
may be some size restrictions.)
 
 § 157.044 FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted Uses. As permitted and regulated under
Chapter 152.
   (B)   Accessory Uses. As permitted and regulated under
Chapter 152.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.045 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted Uses. Any and all Uses subject to the conditions of a
Planned Unit Development permit under Planned Unit Development regulations of
this chapter.
   (B)   Accessory Uses. As permitted by conditions of a Planned Unit
Development Conditional Use permit under Planned Unit Development regulations
of this chapter in §
157.024.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.047 ST. CROIX RIVER OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted Uses. As permitted and regulated under the City St. Croix
River District regulations.
   (B)   Accessory Uses. As permitted and regulated under the City St. Croix
River District regulations.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.048 RESERVED.
DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 157.065 MINIMUM STANDARDS; PURPOSE.
   All Uses, Buildings and Structures permitted pursuant to this chapter shall
conform to the performance and design standards set forth in this section; said
standards are determined to be the minimum standards necessary to comply with
the intent and purposes of this code as set forth in this section.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.066 PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
   (A)   Except as provided by a Conditional Use permit issued pursuant to this
chapter, there shall be no more than one residential Dwelling Unit on any one
parcel of land as described in §
157.041.
   (B)   No cellar, Garage, recreational Vehicle or trailer, Basement with
unfinished exterior Structure above or Accessory Building shall be used at
anytime as a Dwelling Unit.
   (C)   Principal Buildings with more than one Use, in which one of those Uses
is a Dwelling Unit shall require a Conditional Use permit.
   (D)   All principal Buildings hereafter erected on unplatted land shall be
so placed as to avoid obstruction of future Street or utility extensions and
shall be so placed as to permit reasonably anticipated future Subdivisions and
land Use.
      a.   All principal Buildings shall meet or exceed the minimum standard of
the State Building Code, the State Uniform Fire Code, the State Department of
Health, the State Pollution Control Agency and the County On-Site Sewage
Treatment ordinance, except that Manufactured Homes shall meet or exceed the
requirements of the state Manufactured Home Building Code in lieu of the state
Building Code.
   (F)   All principal Buildings shall meet the required Building Height of 35
feet from the lowest elevation in the river district and a 35 foot average for
non-river district properties.
   (G)   The keeping of animals except for domesticated pets inside of the
Dwelling Unit shall be prohibited.
   (H)   All existing principal Buildings in Residential Districts with non-
winterized construction or inadequate non- conforming year-round On-Site Sewage
Treatment systems as described in Chapters 1 and 4 shall be considered a
Seasonal principal Building. No Building permit shall be issued for the
improvement of a Seasonal principal Building to a continuous year-round (365
days) inhabitable Dwelling Unit unless the existing Building conforms or the
Building after such improvement (including septic systems) will conform with
all the requirements of the County Development Code and any applicable state
requirements.
   Any alterations, modifications or enlargements of an existing Seasonal
principal Building for the purpose of continuing the Seasonal Use shall require
a Conditional Use permit.
   (J)    Single-Family Detached Dwellings. In all districts where Single-
Family Detached Dwellings are permitted, the following standards shall apply
for Single-Family Detached Dwellings, including Manufactured Homes, except that
these standards shall not apply to Manufactured Homes permitted by section
157.095:
   Minimum width. The minimum width of the main portion of the Structure shall
be not less than 20 feet, as measured across the narrowest portion.
   Foundations. All Dwellings shall be placed on a permanent foundation and
anchored to resist overturning, uplift and sliding, in compliance with the
state Building Code.
§ 157.067 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Types of Accessory Buildings. Accessory Buildings and other non-
Dwelling Structures include the following: Storage or tool sheds; Detached
residential Garages; detached rural Storage Buildings; detached domesticated
farm animal Buildings; agricultural farm Buildings; non-accessory, non-Dwelling
Structures. Said Buildings are defined as follows:
      (1)   Storage or Tool Sheds. A one-Story Accessory Building of less than
160 square feet gross area with a maximum roof height of 12 feet.
      (2)   Detached residential Garage. A one-Story Accessory Building Used or
intended for the Storage of motor driven passenger Vehicles with a maximum
gross area of 1,000 square feet.
      (3)   Detached rural Storage Building.
         (a)   A one-Story Accessory Building Used or intended for the Storage
of hobby tools, garden equipment, workshop equipment and the like.
         (b)   The gross area of said Building shall not exceed 1,500 square
feet in gross area on a parcel of between ten and 20 acres and not more than
1,000 square feet in gross area on a parcel of less than ten acres.
      (4)   Detached domesticated farm animal Building. A one- Story Accessory
Building Used or intended for the shelter of domestic farm animals and/or
related feed or other farm animal supportive materials. Said Building shall
require a State Pollution Control Agency Feedlot Permit and a Conditional Use
permit, and shall not exceed 1,500 square feet in gross area on a parcel of
between ten and 20 acres and not more than 1,000 square feet in gross area on a
parcel of less than ten acres.
      (5)   Agricultural farm Building. An Accessory Building Used or intended
for Use on an active Commercial food producing farm operation of more than 20
acres. A State Pollution Control Agency permit may be required.
      (6)   Residential-Business Transitional District (RBT). No accessory
Structures or Buildings shall be allowed.
      (7)   Any dish antenna having a diameter in excess of 30 inches shall
require a Building permit and shall be located where practical in the Rear Yard
of the property and shall conform to the Setback provisions of Section
157.043 and Section
157.047 of this ordinance. All dish antennas shall be securely anchored to the
ground and shall be reasonably screened by Landscaping or fencing. No antenna
shall be placed so as to exceed a height greater than the heights of the
Principal Structure located upon the property as measured from the highest
point of the Principal Structure.
      (1)   Greenhouses, private. A structural Building with different types of
covering materials, such as a glass or plastic in which temperature and
humidity can be control for the cultivation or protection of plants. Such
Buildings may be temporary or permanent, with a maximum gross area noted below.
   (B)   Permitted Uses of Accessory Buildings.
 Agricultural              R-       R-       R-       Permit   For Further
 District     R-1 District 2        3        4        Required Details, See
                           District District District          These Sections
                                                                        For
                           R-       R-       R-       R-                Further
              Agricultural 1        2        3        4        Permit   Details,
              District     District District District District Required See
                                                                        These
                                                                        Sections
 Agricultural              R-       R-        R-        Permit   For Further Details, See
 District     R-1 District 2        3         4         Required These Sections
                           District District  District
                           R-       R-        R-        R-                    For Further
              Agricultural 1        2         3         4        Permit       Details, See
              District     District District  District  District Required     These
                                                                              Sections
(1)
Agricultural
farm Building
on active                                                        PCA feedLot,
Commercial                                                       Agricultural §
Food                                                        Buildings    157.067 (A)
Producing                                                        Use permit   (5)
Farm
Operations of
more than 20
acres
Use           P            C        C         N         N                     
(2) Detached
domesticated                                                     PCA feedLot,
farm animal                                                      Conditional  §
Building on                                                 Use,         157.067(A)(4)
parcels                                                          building
between 5 and                                                    permit
20 acres
Use           C            C        N         N         N                     
Maximum area  1,500/1,0 00 1,500/1,                                        
size          s.f.         000 s.f.
Maximum                    one
number of     one Story    Story                                           
stories
(3) Detached                                                     Building     §
residential                                                 permit       157.067(A)(2)
Garage
Use           P            P        P         P         P                     
Maximum area  1,000 s.f.   1,000    1,000     1,000     1,000                 
size                       s.f.     s.f.      s.f.      s.f.
Maximum                    one
number of     one Story    Story    one Story one Story                      
stories
(4) Detached                                            one      Building     §
rural Storage                                       Story    permit       157.067(A)(3)
Building
Use           P            P        N         N         N                     
Maximum area  1,500/1,0 00 1,500/1,                                        
size          s.f.         000 s.f.
Maximum                    one
number of     one Story    Story                                           
stories
(5) Storage,                                                     Building     § 157.067(A)
boat or tool                                                permit       (1)
shed
Use           P            P        P         P         P                     
Maximum area  160 s.f.     160 s.f. 160 s.f.  160 s.f.  160 s.f.              
size
Maximum door  28 s.f.      28 s.f.  28 s.f.   28 s.f.   28 s.f.               
opening area
Maximum                    one                          one
number of     one Story    Story    one Story one Story Story                 
stories
Maximum roof  12 feet      12 feet  12 feet   12 feet   12 feet               
height
Greenhouses,                                                             
private
                                                                         
                                                                         
                                                                         
              2 on parcels
              of between
              10 and 20             1         1
              acres not to          Accessory Accessory
(6) Total     exceed 2500           Building  Buildin   Same as
number of     s.f. in area Same as  not to    not to    R-
Accessory     total - 2 on A        exceed    exceed    3                     
Buildings     parcels of   District 1,000     720 s.f.  District
possible      less than 10          s.f. in   in area
              acres not to          area      total
              exceed 2,000          total
              s.f. in
              total area
P =Permitted        CC =Certificate of Compliance
N =Not permitted    C =Conditional Use permit
 
    (C)   A tool shed as defined in this section may be placed on any Lot in
addition to the permitted number of Accessory Buildings.
   (D)   No Accessory Building shall be constructed nor Accessory Use located
on a Lot until a Building permit has been issued for the principal Building to
which it is accessory.
   (E)   No Accessory Building use or intended for the Storage of passenger
automobiles shall exceed 1,000 square feet of gross area nor shall any
Structure exceed one store in height except when said Garages are located in
Business, industrial or Planned Unit Developments. The exterior design, color,
and siding shall be reasonably similar to that of the design, siding, and color
of the existing Principal Structure located on the property.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this Ordinance to the contrary, under no
circumstance shall the height of any accessory Structure exceed the height of
the Principal Structure.
   On parcels of 20, 000 square feet in area or less, detached Garages shall
not exceed 720 square feet in Gross Floor Area except that where a property
Owner has waived the right to a tool shed under 157.067 (C) and all rights to
Exterior Storage under Section 157.070, an Accessory Building or detached
Garage not exceeding 1,000 square feet in area may be constructed on the
parcel.
   (F)   An Accessory Building shall be considered an integral part of the
principal Building if it is located six feet or less from the principal
Building and is located in an R-1, R-2, R-3, or R-4 Residential District. The
exterior design and color shall be the same as that of the principal Building
or be of an earthen tone; the height shall not exceed the height of the
Principal Structure unless more restrictive portions of this chapter prevail.
   (G)   No Accessory Building in a Commercial or industrial district shall
exceed the height of the principal Building, except by Conditional Use permit.
   (H)   No Accessory Buildings in Apartment developments shall exceed the
height of the principal Building, except by Conditional Use permit.
   (I)   Accessory Buildings in the Commercial and industrial districts may be
located to the rear of the principal Building, subject to the Building Code and
fire zone regulations.
   (J)   No detached Garage or other Accessory Building shall be located nearer
the front Lot line than the principal Building on that Lot, except C, CFP, A-1,
A-2, R-1 Districts and planned unit or Cluster Developments, where detached
Garages or other Accessory Buildings may be permitted nearer the front Lot line
than the principal Building by Certificate of Compliance and written approval
of adjacent property Owners submitted to the Zoning Administrator.
   (K)   Houseboats and Buildings Used as shelters during open water months
from which to fish are to be considered accessory Structures for purposes of
this chapter. All houseboats used within the City limits for a period of 30
consecutive days or more shall require a Certificate of Compliance. Said permit
shall show the Owner; Owner’s address; boat license number; whether the boat is
to be Used as a seasonal residence, and if so, for what period of time during
the year; type of sanitary sewage facility; water supply; and site plan showing
method of access to public road. Each houseboat shall have one off-Street
Parking Space within 400 feet of the docking of such houseboat. No houseboat
shall be Used as a permanent residence.
   (L)   Ice fishing houses stored on parcels of land during summer months
shall be considered an accessory Storage Building equivalent to a Storage shed
(division (A)(1) above). Ice fishing houses shall meet the size limitations of
division (B)(1) above and all other provisions of this chapter, except division
(L) below.
   (M)   All Accessory Buildings over 35 square feet in area shall have a
foundation or concrete slab. Accessory Buildings larger than 100 square feet
shall require a Building permit regardless of improvement value. Roof and wind
loads shall conform to requirements as contained in the Building Code.
   (N)   All Accessory Buildings shall be located in areas other than required
Yards, except as provided in division (N) below.
   (O)   The required Rear Yard Setbacks for detached residential Garages, and
Storage, boat, and tool sheds, shall be a distance equal to the required Side
Yard Setback for each Zoning District, except on Through Lots when the required
Rear Yard Setback in each Zoning District shall apply.
   (P)   Conditional Use permit requirements necessary for approval and
construction of a detached domesticated farm animal Building on parcels between
five and 20 acres. An application for a Conditional Use permit and public
hearing to construct a detached domesticated farm animal Building shall include
the following:
      (1)   An aerial photo illustrating within 500 feet of the proposed
Structure, all adjacent property Owners Lot lines, houses, septic systems,
Fences, wells, animal Buildings and other Structures and feed Storage areas;
all wet marshy areas, drainageways and shorelines; all proposed grazing areas
on the site; all new utility extensions and driveway accesses to the proposed
Building; all Manure Storage and Disposal Areas;
      (2)   A written soil inventory and evaluation from the County Soil
Conservation District, if requested by the Zoning Administrator;
      (3)   Details of the Building Floor Plan, elevations, materials, and
color of Structure;
      (4)   The application form shall be accompanied by an accurate list
showing the names and mailing addresses of the record Owners of all property
within a minimum of 500 feet of the property for which the Conditional Use
permit is sought, verified as to accuracy by the applicant; and
      (5)   Notice of the purpose, time and place of such public hearing shall
be published in the official newspaper of the City and mailed to each of the
Owners of all property located within a minimum of 500 feet of the property
described in the application and such other Person as the Planning Commission
may direct, at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing. A copy of the
notice and a list of the Owners and addresses to which the notice was sent
shall be attested to by the responsible Person and shall be made a part of the
records of the proceedings. The failure to give mailed notice to individual
property Owners, or defects in the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings
provided a bona fide attempt to comply with the provisions of this section has
been made.
      (6)   Performance Standards for detached Agricultural Buildings and
domesticated farm animal Buildings on parcels of less than 20 acres shall
include the following:
      (7)   Setbacks. All domestic farm animal Buildings, feedlots and Manure
Storage sites shall be Setback as follows:
 
Natural or Human-Made Features                    Minimum Horizontal Setbacks
Any body of seasonal or year-round surface water  200 feet
Any existing well or residential Structure on     200 feet
adjacent or nearby parcel
Any existing well or residential Structure on the 50 feet
same parcel
Any property line                                 100 feet
 
      (8)   Slopes. Said Building, feedlot or Manure Storage shall not be
placed on slopes which exceed 13%.
      (9)   Ground water level or mottled soil. Evidence of the seasonally high
ground water level or mottled soil (as established by six- foot borings) shall
not be closer than four feet to the natural surface ground grade in any area
within 100 feet of the proposed Building and/or feedlot.
      (10)   Marshes or wetlands. No marsh or wetland (as established by the
predominant wetland vegetation and/or soils shall be utilized for placement of
the proposed Structure, feedlot, or grazing area.
   (Q)   Accessory Apartments. The following Performance Standards and
Conditional Use permit requirements shall apply and are necessary for approval,
construction, maintenance, and Use of an Accessory Apartment.
      (1)   Accessory Apartments shall be allowed for the following purposes:
         (a)   More efficient utilization of the existing single Family housing
stock in the City;
         (b)   Enjoyment of the benefits of rental income, decreased
housekeeping responsibilities or the companionship of tenants by Persons
residing in houses which are too large for their present needs;
         (c)   Provision of housing which allows privacy and independence for
older or disabled Family members;
         (d)   Preservation of property values and maintenance of the character
of existing single Family neighborhoods, and
         (e)   Provision of housing for live-in employees, such as caregivers
and nannies.
      (2)   For purposes of an Accessory Apartment Use, the following
definitions shall apply:
         (a)   “housekeeping unit” – all Persons residing within a single
Family house whose relationship includes a substantial amount of social
interaction including the sharing of housekeeping responsibilities or expenses
or the taking of meals together;
         (b)   “living space” – the area within a house which is suitable for
human habitation including suitable finished Basement areas but excluding
Garages, service areas and unfinished portions of the Building;
         (c)   “Owner”- the Person who holds the fee title or is a bona fide
purchaser under a contract for deed of the property; and
         (d)   “unit of housing” – one or more rooms designed, occupied, or
intended for occupancy as separate living quarters, with cooking, sleeping and
sanitary facilities separate from those of another unit of housing and intended
for the exclusive Use of a single housekeeping unit.
      (3)   No Accessory Apartment shall be created, maintained, or Used except
in conformity with the following:
         (a)   To be created only on property zoned Single Family Detached
Dwellings and no more than one Accessory Apartment to be created in any
principal Single Family Dwelling;
         (b)   Adequate off-Street parking shall be provided for the Vehicles
of all residents of an Accessory Apartment and the single Family residence,
with such parking to be in a Garage, carport or on paved or gravel areas
intended for that purpose. No long-term parking on Street right-of-way by any
occupants shall be allowed. The property shall be further subject to all
additional parking rules and regulations set forth elsewhere in the zoning
code.
         (c)   An Accessory Apartment shall be 45 percent or less of the gross
living area of the Structure. The gross living area includes the Accessory
Apartment;
         (d)   An Accessory Apartment shall be constructed and maintained as an
appropriate and suitable living space and unit of housing as defined above.
Combined occupancy of the single Family residence and the Accessory Apartment
shall be limited to two times the number of bedrooms in the Structure. The
septic system shall also be inspected and shall be compliant with county
requirements and sufficient for the number of bedrooms at the property.
         (e)   Exterior appearance and any exterior modifications or changes to
the principal Single Family Dwelling must not substantially alter the single
Family appearance and character of the Structure;
         (f)   No Accessory Apartment shall be created except in compliance
with all applicable Building, housing, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire, and
related codes of the City and State of Minnesota. Construction of an Accessory
Apartment shall require a Building permit and inspection and oversight by the
City Building Official;
         (g)   All other provisions of this ordinance relating to Single Family
Dwelling Units and Structures and their related accessory Structures shall be
met, unless specifically amended by this Subdivision;
         (h)   No Accessory Apartment shall be occupied prior to the issuance
of a Certificate of Occupancy by the City Building Official.
         (i)   Either the principal Single Family Dwelling or the Accessory
Apartment shall be Owner-occupied. Any portion of the Single Family Dwelling or
Accessory Apartment rented to and occupied by someone other than the Family
members of the Owner of the Principal Structure shall be required to obtain a
license for a Residential Rental Property as set forth in the Code Section
1104.
      (4)   Accessory Apartments shall be allowed only with a Conditional Use
Permit (applied for and approved in conformance with all provisions of Code
Section 505, with this subsection 703.19, and with all other Code provisions
relating to residential Uses). The City may impose any other reasonable
condition or restriction in relation to the approval of a particular
Conditional Use permit for an Accessory Apartment as deemed suitable or
necessary for a particular property. Accessory Apartments shall be reviewed for
compliance with the Conditional Use permit each year as follows:
         (a)   Annual inspection by the Fire Chief or their designee;
         (b)   Annual review of Conditional Use Permit by Zoning Administrator,
Planning Commission, and/or Building Official verifying continued compliance;
         (c)   Payment of annual review fee as determined by the City Council;
      (5)   Conditional Use permits for Accessory Apartments within the Lower
St. Croix Bluffland and Shoreland overlay district shall be subject to any
additional rules and regulations for a Conditional Use permit in the overlay
district as set forth in the Lower St. Croix Bluffland and Shoreland Management
Ordinance. Because Accessory Apartments are permissible with a Conditional Use
Permit within the Lower St. Croix Bluffland and Shoreland overlay district, any
amendments, or modifications to the provisions of this Section 703.19 shall be
subject to the DNR notification and certification procedures in the Lower St.
Croix River Bluffland and Shoreland Management Ordinance.
§ 157.068 PUBLIC CONVENIENCE STRUCTURES.
   No public Use or convenience Structure shall be located within the public
right-of-way except by a Certificate of Compliance issued by the Zoning
Administrator. Such Structure shall include, but not be limited to trash
containers, institutional direction Signs, bicycle racks, benches, planting
boxes, awnings, flag poles, bus shelters, light standards, stairs, stoop, light
wells, newspaper Storage containers, loading wells, Signs, and others. Such
Structures do not include utility facilities.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.069 FENCES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   FRONT OF HOUSE. Space between the Structure and address Street
extending to side property lines.
      (2)   OPEN FENCE. A Fence that permits 25% or greater visibility.
      (3)   SOLID WALL. A Fence that permits less than 75% visibility.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   All Fences shall require a Building permit.
      (2)   No Fences shall be permitted on public rights-of-way.
      (3)   Fencing around swimming pools is covered by §
157.090(K).
      (4)   Fencing on non-residential property required for Screening Exterior
Storage may exceed the limitations herein but only by Conditional Use permit.
      (5)   Unless otherwise agreed to in writing by adjacent property Owners,
all Fence maintenance is the sole responsibility of the property Owner who
constructed same and their successors, heirs, and assigns.
   (C)   Location of fencing.
      (1)   Fences may be placed along property lines provided no physical
damage of any kind results to abutting property.
      (2)   Any Fence built on a property line requires written agreement by
the adjoining property Owners affected.
      (3)   Any Fence built near but not on the property line will require that
the Owner leave a reasonable space (three feet or more) between the Fence and
the property line to allow for the maintenance of the Fence and the cutting of
weeds on the adjoining property Owner’s side of the Fence.
      (4)   Solid walls are prohibited in the front of the house of a Lot on
residential property.
      (5)   Should the rear Lot line of a Lot be common with the side Lot line
of an abutting Lot, that portion of the rear Lot line equal to the required
front of the house of the abutting Lot shall not be Fenced to a height of more
than four feet.
      (6)   On any Corner Lot, no Fence shall be constructed in such a manner
as to impede vision within 15 feet of intersection Street right- of-way lines.
      (7)   Where the property line is not clearly defined, a certificate of
survey may be required by the Zoning Administrator to establish the property
line.
   (D)   Height.
      (1)   No Fence in the front of the house of a residential Lot may exceed
four (4) feet in height.
      (2)   No Fence shall exceed six feet on residential property and eight
feet on Commercial or industrial property.
   (E)   Fences- Non-Conforming Uses.
      (1)   All Fences defined in the Zoning Ordinance shall be considered as
Structures for the purposes of application to the Zoning Ordinances relating to
Non-Conforming Uses, Buildings, and Structure.
   (F)   Fencing Materials and Maintenance.
      (1)   Fencing on and around property and Structures shall be maintained
in a working state of maintenance and repair.
      (2)   Fences shall be maintained in proper vertical alignment without
significant leaning or falling down. Any breaks, holes, or loose members shall
be repaired, paint shall be substantially free of peeling or flaking, wood
shall be substantially free of rot, metal components shall be substantially
free of rust, corrosion, or decay, and stone, masonry or other materials shall
be substantially free of cracks, crumbling, spalling, or decay.
      (3)   Fences shall be constructed of decay-resistant wood, metal, brick,
stone, masonry, or other permanent materials designed for fencing. No barbed
wire, razor wire, spiked, electrified or any other Fence deemed hazardous to
health, safety, and welfare of the public shall be allowed.
      (4)   Fences made of plastic netting, chicken wire, hardware cloth/wire
mesh, silt fabric, plastic sheeting or similar non-permanent materials shall
not be permitted.
      (5)   Fences built around gardens or plantings for the purpose of
excluding birds, rabbits, deer, or other animals shall be excluded from the
requirements of subpart (d) of this Section.
§ 157.070 EXTERIOR STORAGE.
   (A)   In all districts, all personal property shall be stored within a
Building or fully screened so as not to be visible from adjoining properties
and public Streets, except the following:
      (1)   Laundry drying equipment;
      (2)   Construction, Landscaping materials and construction equipment
currently in Use on the premises (such Use not to exceed 12 consecutive
months);
      (3)   Agricultural equipment and materials intended for Use upon the
premises;
      (4)   Off-Street parking of licensed and operable passenger cars and
pickup trucks;
      (5)   Utility trailers (not to exceed two per residence) and not to
exceed 13 feet in length;
      (6)   Firewood Piles;
      (7)   Recreational equipment; and
Watercraft less than 25 feet in length and unoccupied watercraft trailers not
to exceed 35 feet in length are permitted if stored in the Rear Yard of the
property more than ten feet distant from the property lines if:
   The watercraft and/or watercraft trailer are currently licensed and owned by
the resident occupying the residential property on which they are stored; and
   The watercraft and/or watercraft trailer are currently registered with the
state and are in operable condition.
   No residential property shall have located upon it more than two watercraft
and/or two watercraft trailers.
   (B)   In non-Residential Districts, Exterior Storage of personal property
may be permitted by Conditional Use permit provided any such property is so
stored for purposes relating to a Use of the property permitted by this chapter
and will not be contrary to the intent and purpose of this chapter. For the
purposes of this chapter, the Residential-Business Transitional District (RBT)
shall be considered as a non-Residential District.
   (C)   In all districts, all waste, refuse or garbage shall be kept in an
enclosed Building or properly contained in a closed container designed for such
purposes. The Owner of vacant land shall be responsible for keeping such land
free of refuse and weeds. Existing Uses shall comply with this provision within
90 days following effective date of this chapter.
   (D)   All Exterior Storage not included as a permitted Accessory Use, a
permitted Use or included as part of a Conditional Use permit or otherwise
permitted by provisions of this chapter, shall be considered as refuse.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.071 ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION.
   (A)   All Uses, Buildings and Structures shall conform to the regulations of
the State Pollution Control Agency relating to air, water, noise, and solid
wastes.
   (B)   No Use shall be permitted which will cause or result in the pollution
of any tributary of the St. Croix River, Mississippi River, any lake, stream or
other body of water in the City.
   (C)   Chemical insecticides or herbicides shall be stored, handled, and
utilized as per the standards set forth by the State Pollution Control Agency.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.072 SCREENING.
   (A)   Screening shall be required in residential zones where:
      (1)   Any off-Street parking area contains more than four Parking Spaces
and is within 30 feet of an adjoining residential zone; and
      (2)   Where the driveway to a parking area of more than six Parking
Spaces is within 15 feet of an adjoining residential Use or zone.
      (3)   Where any Business or Industrial Use (Structure, parking, or
Storage) is adjacent to property zoned for residential Use, that Business or
industry shall provide Screening along the boundary of the residential
property. Screening shall also be provided where a Business, parking lot or
industry is across the Street from a residential zone, but not on the side of a
Business or industry considered to be the front.
      (4)   All Exterior Storage shall be screened. The exceptions are:
      (5)   Merchandise being displayed for sale;
      (6)   Materials and equipment currently being used for construction on
the premises; and
      (7)   Merchandise located on service station pump islands.
   (B)   The Screening required in this section shall consist of earth mounds,
berms, or ground forms; Fences and walls; Landscaping (plant materials) or
landscaped fixtures (such as timbers) used in combination or singularly so as
to block direct visual access to an object.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.073 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Landscaping on a Lot shall consist of a finish grade and a soil
retention cover such as sod, seed and mulch, plantings or as may be required by
the Zoning Administrator to protect the soil and aesthetic values on the Lot
and adjacent property.
   (B)   In all districts, all developed Uses shall provide Landscaping from
the urban curb and gutter to the road right-of- way lines. This landscaped Yard
shall be kept clear of all Structures, Exterior Storage, and off-Street
parking.
   (C)   Landscaping shall be provided and maintained on all required Front and
Side Yards in all developed districts except where pavement or crushed stone is
used for walkways or driveways.
   (D)   In all districts new construction on vacant Building sites shall
include at a minimum the planting of five deciduous/conifer trees of native
variety within the Front Yard.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.074 REASONABLE MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
   In all districts, all Structures, Landscaping, and Fences shall be
reasonably maintained so as to avoid health and safety hazards and prevent a
degradation in the value of adjacent property.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.075 LIGHTING, LIGHTING FIXTURES AND GLARE.
   (A)   In all districts, any lighting used to illuminate an off-Street
parking area, or other Structure or area, shall be arranged as to deflect light
away from any adjoining residential zone or from the public Streets. Direct or
sky-reflected glare, whether from floodlights or from high temperature
processes such as combustion or welding shall not be directed into any
adjoining property. The source of light shall be hooded or controlled so as not
to light adjacent property. Bare light bulbs shall not be permitted in view of
adjacent property or public rights-of-way. No light or combination of lights
which cast light on a public Street shall exceed one foot-candle meter reading
as measured from the centerline of said Street nor shall any light or
combination of lights which cast light on residential property exceed four-
tenths foot-candles.
   (B)   Lighting standards shall not exceed 25 feet of the height of the
principal Building on a Lot, without a Conditional Use permit.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.077 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING AREAS.
   (A)   Location. All required loading berths shall be off- Street and shall
be located on the same Lot as the Building or Use to be served. A loading berth
shall be located at least 25 feet from the intersection of two Street rights-
of-way and at least 50 feet from a Residential District, unless within a
Building. Loading berths shall not occupy the required Front Yard space.
   (B)   Size. Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, a required loading
berth shall be not less than 12 feet in width, 50 feet in length and 14 feet in
height, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space.
   (C)   Access. Each required loading berth shall be located with appropriate
means of vehicular access to a Street or public alley in a manner which will
least interfere with traffic.
   (D)   Surfacing. All loading berths and accessways shall be improved with a
hard surface to control the dust and drainage before occupancy of the
Structure.
   (E)   Accessory Use. Any space allocated as a loading berth or maneuvering
area so as to comply with the terms of this chapter shall not be Used for the
Storage of goods, inoperable Vehicles or be included as a part of the space
requirements necessary to meet the off-Street parking area.
   (F)   Off-Street space for trucks. Any Structure erected or substantially
altered for a Use which requires the receipt or distribution of materials or
merchandise by trucks or similar Vehicles, shall provide off-Street Loading
Space as required for a new Structure.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.078 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   The traffic generated by any Use shall be controlled so as to prevent:
      (1)   Congestion of the public Streets;
      (2)   Traffic hazards; and
      (3)   Excessive traffic through residential areas, particularly truck
traffic.
   (B)   Internal traffic shall be so regulated as to ensure its safe and
orderly flow. Traffic into and out of Business and industrial areas shall in
all cases be forward moving with no backing into Streets.
   (C)   On any Corner Lot, nothing shall be placed or allowed to grow in such
manner as to impede vision between a height of two and one-half and ten feet
above the centerline grades of the intersecting Streets within 15 feet of the
intersecting Street right-of-way lines. This restriction shall also apply to
the planting of crops and to Yard grades that result in elevations that impede
vision within 15 feet of any intersecting Street right-of-way lines.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.079 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   All Uses associated with the bulk Storage of over 2,000 gallons of soil,
gasoline, liquid fertilizer, chemicals, and similar liquids shall require a
Conditional Use permit in order that the Zoning Administrator may have
assurance that fire, explosion or water or soil contamination hazards are not
present that would be detrimental to the public health, safety, and general
welfare. All existing, above ground liquid Storage tanks having a capacity in
excess of 2,000 gallons shall secure a Conditional Use permit within 12 months
following enactment of this chapter the Zoning Administrator shall require the
development of diking around said tanks, suitably sealed, to hold a leakage
capacity equal to 115% of the tank capacity. Any existing Storage tank that, in
the opinion of the Planning Advisory Commission, constitutes a hazard to the
public safety shall discontinue operations within five years following
enactment of this chapter. (Also see §
157.080 Explosives.)
§ 157.080 EXPLOSIVES.
   No activities involving the Commercial Storage, Use or manufacture of
materials or products which could decompose by detonation shall be permitted
except as are specifically permitted by the City Council. Such materials shall
include but not be confined to all primary explosives such as lead azide and
mercury fulminate, all high explosives, and boosters such as TNT, tetryl and
nitrates, propellants, and components thereof such as nitrocellulose, black
powder, and nitroglycerine, blasting explosives such as dynamite and nuclear
fuel and reactor elements such as uranium 235 and plutonium.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.082 GUEST HOUSES.
   (A)   Guest houses for the purpose of this section shall be an accessory
Building detached from the principal Building with temporary accommodations for
sleeping, but having no kitchen facility. It is intended for the Use of Persons
visiting the occupants of the Principal Structure.
   (B)   Guest houses shall be permitted in all Residential Districts and shall
conform to all requirements of this code and other regulations applicable to
residential Dwellings Setback and Yard requirements in relation to the
Principal Structure.
   (C)   All guest houses shall have designated off-Street Parking Spaces.
   (D)   A Certificate of Compliance shall be required for a guest house.
   Penalty, see § 157.999
§ 157.083 DWELLING UNITS IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   Dwelling Units for watchperson and Family shall be considered as Accessory
Uses and shall conform to all applicable regulations for the district in which
located, except as herein modified.
   (A)   A Dwelling Unit in the Commercial district located in a Commercial
Structure shall not occupy the front half of the ground floor or Basement.
   (B)   A Dwelling Unit in a Commercial or industrial Building shall not
contain more than one bedroom unless said Building is part of a Planned Unit
Development.
   (C)   No Detached Dwelling Unit shall be permitted in the Commercial or
industrial districts, except as part of a Planned Unit Development.
   (D)   A Dwelling Unit which is a part of the principal Building shall be
provided with two exits; one shall be a direct outside exit.
   (E)   All Buildings shall conform to the Building Code and applicable fire
codes.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.084 DRIVE-IN BUSINESS.
   (A)   Drainage system. The entire area of any Drive-In Business shall have a
drainage system approved by the City Engineer.
   (B)   Hard surface. The entire area other than that occupied by Structures
or planting shall be surfaced with a hard surface material which will control
dust and drainage.
   (C)   Curb. A box curb at least six inches above grade shall separate the
public walk area from the Lot, except at approved entrance or exit drives.
   (D)   Fence. A Fence or screen of acceptable design not over six feet in
height or less than four feet shall be constructed along the property line
abutting a Residential District and such Fence or screen shall be adequately
maintained. The Fence shall not be required in front of the Setback Line.
   (E)   General.
      (1)   No Person shall construct, operate, or maintain a Drive-In Business
within the City without first obtaining a Conditional Use permit.
      (2)   Any Drive-In Business serving food or beverages may also provide,
in addition to vehicular service areas, indoor food and beverage service
seating area sufficient to accommodate at least 24 customers.
      (3)   The hours of operation shall be set forth as a condition of any
Drive-In Business Conditional Use permit.
      (4)   Each Drive-In Business serving food may have outside seating for at
least 24 customers.
      (5)   Each food or beverage Drive-In Business shall place refuse
receptacles at all exits as well as one refuse receptacle at all exits as well
as one refuse receptacle per ten Vehicle Parking Spaces within the parking
area.
      (6)   Landscaped planting islands as stipulated in § 157.076 shall be
required.
   (F)   Locations.
      (1)   No Drive-In Business shall be located within 400 feet of a public
or parochial school, Church, public recreation area or any Residential
District.
      (2)   No Drive-In Business shall be located such that it may increase
traffic volumes on nearby residential Streets.
      (3)   No Drive-In shall be located on any Street other than one
designated as a thoroughfare or Business service road in the Comprehensive
Plan.
   (G)   Site plan.
      (1)   The site plan shall clearly indicate suitable Storage containers
for all waste material. All Commercial refuse containers shall be screened.
      (2)   A Landscaping plan shall be included and shall set forth complete
specifications for plant materials and other features.
      (3)   Adequate area shall be designated for snow Storage such that clear
visibility shall be maintained from the property to any public Street.
      (4)   The design of any Structure shall be compatible with other
Structures in the surrounding area.
      (5)   No Drive-In Business shall be located on a Lot less than 30,000
square feet.
      (6)   Electronic devices such as loudspeakers, automobile service order
devices, Drive-In theater car speakers and similar instruments shall not be
located within 400 feet of any residentially zoned or Used property, nor within
200 feet of any adjacent Lot regardless of Use or Zoning District.
      (7)   No service shall be rendered, deliveries made or sales conducted
within the required Front Yard; customers served in Vehicles shall be parked to
the sides and/or rear of the Principal Structure.
      (8)   No permanent or temporary signs visible from the public Street
shall be erected without specific approval in the permit.
      (9)   No plan shall be approved which will in any way constitute a hazard
to vehicular or pedestrian circulation. No access drive shall be within 50 feet
of intersecting Street curb lines.
   (H)   Permit revocation or suspension. Violation of any applicable law or
ordinance in the conditions of the permit shall be cause for permit revocation
or suspension (notice of violations and hearings).
   (I)   Drive-In theater. In the case of a Drive-In theater, a solid Fence not
less than eight feet in height and extending at least to within two feet of the
ground shall be constructed around the property.
   (J)   Lighting. The lighting shall be designed so as to have no direct
source of light visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent land in
residential Use.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.086 ENVIRONMENTAL NUISANCES.
   No odors, vibration, noise, smoke, air pollution, liquid or solid wastes,
heat, glare, dust or other such sensory irritations or health hazards shall be
permitted in any district in excess of the minimum standards as set forth in
this section. Any violation of said standards is hereby declared a nuisance.
   (A)   Exterior Lighting.
      (1)   Exterior lighting shall be designed and arranged to limit direct
illumination and glare upon or into any contiguous parcel. Reflected glare or
spill light shall not exceed five-tenths foot- candles as measured on the
property line when abutting any residential parcel and one foot-candle on any
abutting Commercial or industrial parcel. Streetlights installed in public
right-of- way shall be excepted from these standards.
      (2)   Mitigative measures shall be employed to limit glare and spill
light to protect neighboring parcels and to maintain traffic safety on public
roads. These measures shall include lenses, shields, louvers, prismatic control
devices and limitations on the height and type of fixtures. The City may also
limit the hours of operation of outdoor lighting if it is deemed necessary to
reduce impacts on the surrounding neighborhood.
      (3)   No flickering or flashing lights shall be permitted.
      (4)   Direct, off-site views of the light source shall not be permitted
except for globe and/or ornamental light fixtures approved in conjunction with
a site and Building plan. Globe and ornamental fixtures shall only be approved
when the developer can demonstrate that off-site impacts stemming from direct
views of the bulb are mitigated by the fixture design and/or location.
      (5)   The City may require submission of a light distribution plan if
deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the intent of this chapter.
   (B)   Odors. No Use shall produce unreasonable or disturbing odors beyond
the property line exceeding applicable regulations established by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency.
   (C)   Noise and Vibration.
      (1)   Noise. Noises emanating from any Use shall be in compliance with
and regulated by the standards of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency. Any
Use established or remodeled after the effective date of this chapter shall be
so operated as to prevent vibration discernable at any point beyond the Lot
line of the site on which such Use is located. The City may also limit the
hours of operation of outdoor noise if it is deemed necessary to reduce impacts
on the surrounding neighborhood.
      (2)   Ground vibration and noise caused by motor Vehicles, trains,
aircraft operations or temporary construction or demolition shall be exempt
from these regulations. However, if deemed appropriate, the City may establish
limits on the hours of operation of temporary construction or demolition
operation to limit off-site impacts.
   (D)   Toxic or Noxious Matter. No Use or operation shall emit a
concentration of toxic or Noxious Matter across the property line which exceeds
applicable regulations of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   (E)   Smoke and particulate matter. No Use shall produce or emit smoke, dust
or particulate matter exceeding applicable regulations established by the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   (F)   Animals. Any Building in which domestic farm animals are kept shall be
a minimum distance of 100 feet from all Lot lines. (See §
157.067(O).
   (G)   Radiation. No operation shall be conducted which exceeds the standards
established by applicable regulations of the Minnesota Department of Health.
   (H)   Heat and humidity. No Use shall produce any unreasonable, disturbing,
or unnecessary emissions of heat or humidity beyond the property line which
cause material distress, discomfort, or injury to Persons of ordinary
sensitivity.
   (I)   Electromagnetic interference. No Use shall produce electromagnetic
interference with normal radio or television reception in any Residential
District, or exceed applicable standards established by any applicable federal
or state regulations.
   (J)   Liquid or solid waste. All Uses shall be subject to applicable
regulations of the City governing discharge into a public storm or sanitary
sewer, waterway or stream.
§ 157.087 MISCELLANEOUS NUISANCES.
   (A)   Parking and Storage of Junk Vehicles Within the City
      (1)   No Person shall park, keep, place, store, or abandoned any Junk
Vehicle on a public Street, highway, or roadway within the City.
      (2)   No Person in charge or control of any property within the City,
whether as Owner, tenant, or lessee, shall allow any Junk Vehicle to remain on
such property.
      (3)   An exception to the Junk Vehicle regulation set forth above shall
apply to Vehicles stored within an enclosed Garage or enclosed accessory
Structure.
   (B)   It shall be a nuisance to create or maintain a Junk Yard or Vehicle
dismantling yard except as provided herein.
   (C)   The following are declared to be nuisances endangering public health:
      (1)   Causing or suffering the effluent from any cesspool, septic tank,
drainfield or human sewage disposal system to discharge upon the surface of the
ground, or dumping the contents thereof at any place except as authorized by
the State Pollution Control Agency;
      (2)   Causing or suffering the pollution of any public well or cistern,
stream or lake, canal, or body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other
substances; and
   (D)   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
      (1)   The placing or throwing on any Street, alley, road, highway,
sidewalk or other public property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, or other
nuisances which may injure any Person or animal or may cause damage to any
pneumatic tire when passing over the same; and
      (2)   The Ownership, possession or control of any unused refrigerator or
other container, with doors which fasten automatically when closed of
sufficient size to retain any Person, and which is exposed and accessible to
the public, without removing the doors, lids, hinges, or latches or providing
locks to prevent access by the public.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.088 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
   (A)   Policy. It is the policy of the City to enhance the supply of safe,
sanitary, and adequate property for its citizens and to prevent the
deterioration and blight of existing property in the City and preserve and
enhance the health, safety, welfare, and value of neighboring properties.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of the Property Maintenance Ordinance is to
establish a level of maintenance standards for all property, housing, and
accessory Structures in the City of Lake St. Croix Beach in order to;
      (1)   Protect the character, value and stability of properties and
promote the health, safety, and welfare of all residents within the City of
Lake St. Croix Beach.
      (2)   Provide appropriate standards for the maintenance of properties and
Buildings, and to thus prevent deterioration and blight.
   (C)   Applicability and scope. This Property Maintenance Ordinance shall
apply to properties within the City of Lake St. Croix Beach, including the
exterior portion of all Buildings, whether residential or Commercial, Owner
occupied or rental Dwellings, and vacant Buildings, Accessory Buildings of any
sort, and the surrounding Lot including vacant Lots.
   (D)   Definitions. “Working state of maintenance and repair” is defined as:
safe, sanitary, structurally sound and in good repair, without significant
deterioration, corrosion, deformation, pest infestation, or signs of neglect,
so as not to pose a threat to the public health, safety, or welfare.
   (E)   Exterior Of Structures. The exterior of residential, Commercial, and
accessory Structures in the City shall comply with the following standards.
These standards are in addition to any standards set forth in the City Building
Codes set forth in Chapter 500 Building Code and Chapter 1500 relating to
Nuisance.
   (F)   Foundations and Structural Elements.
      (1)   All foundations, walls and roofs, windows, doors, and other
structural elements of every Structure shall be maintained in a working state
of maintenance and repair.
      (2)   The foundation elements shall adequately support the Building at
all points.
      (3)   Exterior elements such as walls, soffits, fascia, trim, and eaves,
shall be finished with siding or finish material and be free of holes, breaks,
loose, or rotting boards or timbers, falling or loose stucco or brick,
substantial amounts of peeling paint and any conditions which might admit
moisture, rodents, and pests to the interior portions of the walls or to the
interior spaces of the Structure. Tar paper, Tyvek or similar materials are not
considered appropriate finish materials.
      (4)   The roof Structure and all of its components shall be in a working
state of maintenance and repair, and have no defects which admit water. Roof
drainage shall be adequate to prevent water from causing dampness or
deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the Structure. The use of
tarps is considered temporary and not a finished roof.
      (5)   Wood or other decay-prone materials shall be finished with an
appropriate protective coating.
      (6)   Windows and doors shall be in a working state of maintenance and
repair, and not have broken glass panes, hinges, or locks, and shall seal the
Building from intrusion by the weather, animals, and insects. Screens shall be
maintained in good repair.
   (G)   Stairs, Porches, and Decks.
      (1)   Stairs, porches, decks and all railings and other appurtenances
attached thereto shall be in a working state of maintenance and repair so as to
be safe and capable of supporting a load as determined in the Building Code and
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair.
      (2)   Stairs, porches, decks, and appurtenances attached thereto shall be
free of holes, breaks, loose, or rotting boards or timbers, falling or loose
stucco or brick, substantial amounts of peeling paint and any conditions which
might admit moisture to the interior portions of any Structure.
   (H)   Accessory Structures. The exterior of all Buildings and accessory
Structures including but not limited to attached Garages, detached Garages,
sheds, gazebos, and pole Buildings shall be maintained in a working state of
maintenance and repair so as not to pose a threat to public health, safety, or
welfare.
   (I)   Enforcement. Upon written complaint by a resident, it is the duty of
the City Zoning Administrator or their designee to enforce the provisions of
the Property Maintenance Code. This code may be enforced by civil court
process, criminal court process, or administrative citation process. Any costs
that are incurred by the City to bring a property into compliance with this
ordinance shall be invoiced to the property Owner. Charges that remain unpaid
30 days after notice will be applied as an assessment and certified to the
Washington County Auditor for collection with the real estate taxes.
   (J)   Inspections. The City Zoning Administrator shall be authorized to
determine the condition of Dwellings in the City under this code in order to
safeguard the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
§ 157.089 COIN OPERATED MACHINES.
   Coin operated, automatic machines dispensing food, soft drinks and other
food and materials shall not be permitted outside of a Building, except as
approved by a Certificate of Compliance.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.090 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Single- and Two-Family Dwelling Units. In all districts where Single-
and Two-Family Dwelling Units are permitted Uses, the following standards
apply.
      (1)   A Certificate of Compliance shall be required for any swimming pool
with a capacity of over 3,000 gallons or with a depth of over three and one-
half feet of water.
      (2)   An application for a Certificate of Compliance shall include a site
plan showing:
         (a)   The type and size of pool;
         (b)   Location of pool;
         (c)   Location of house, Garage, fencing and other improvements on the
Lot;
         (d)   Location of Structures on all adjacent Lots;
         (e)   Location of filter unit, pump and writing indicating the type of
such units;
         (f)   Location of back-flush and drainage outlets, grading plan,
finished elevations and final treatment (decking, Landscaping, and the like)
around the pool;
         (g)   Location of existing overhead and underground wiring, utility
easements, trees, and similar features; and
         (h)   Location of any water heating unit.
      (3)   Pools shall not be located within 20 feet of any septic tank/
drainfield nor within six feet of any Principal Structure or frost footing.
Pools shall not be located within any required Front or Side Yard Setbacks.
      (4)   Pools shall not be located beneath overhead utility lines nor over
underground utility lines of any type.
      (5)   Pools shall not be located within any private or public utility,
walkway, drainage, or other easement.
      (6)   In the case of inground pools, the necessary precautions shall be
taken during the construction, to:
         (a)   Avoid damage, hazards, or inconvenience to adjacent or nearby
property; and
         (b)   Assure that proper care shall be taken in stockpiling excavated
material to avoid erosion, dust, or other infringements upon adjacent property.
      (7)   All access for construction shall be over the Owner’s land and due
care shall be taken to avoid damage to public Streets and adjacent private or
public property.
      (8)   To the extent feasible, back-flush water or water from pool
drainage shall be directed onto the Owner’s property or into approved public
drainageways. Water shall not drain onto adjacent or nearby private land.
      (9)   The filter unit, pump, heating unit and any other noise-making
mechanical equipment shall be located at least 50 feet from any adjacent or
nearby residential Structure and not closer than ten feet to any Lot line.
      (10)   Lighting for the pool shall be directed toward the pool and not
toward adjacent property.
      (11)   A Structure or safety Fence of a non-climbable type at least five
feet in height shall completely enclose the pool, but shall not be located
within any required Yard areas.
      (12)   Water in the pool shall be maintained in a suitable manner to
avoid health hazards of any type. Such water shall be subject to periodic
inspection by the local health officer.
      (13)   All wiring, installation of heating units, grading, installation
of pipes and all other installations and construction shall be subject to
inspection.
      (14)   Any proposed deviation from these standards and requirements shall
require a Variance in accordance with normal zoning procedures.
   (B)   Multiple-Family Dwelling areas. Private swimming pools which are
intended for and Used by the occupants of a Multiple-Family Dwelling and the
guests of the occupants of said Dwelling shall adhere to the following
regulations.
      (1)   No part of the water surface of the swimming pool shall be less
than 50 feet from any Lot line.
      (2)   No pumps, filter or other apparatus used in connection with or to
service a swimming pool shall be located less than 50 feet from any Lot line.
      (3)   The pool area shall be adequately Fenced to prevent uncontrolled
access from the Street or adjacent property. Adequate Screening, including but
not limited to Landscaping, shall be placed between the pool area and adjacent
single-Family district Lot lines.
      (4)   All deck areas, adjacent patios or other similar areas used in
conjunction with the swimming pool shall be located at least 30 feet from any
Lot line in an adjacent single-Family district.
   (C)   In all Zoning Districts.
      (1)   Every Person owning land within the City upon which there is
presently situated an above- or below-ground swimming pool or who constructs
such a swimming pool after the effective date of the ordinance from which this
section is derived, either of which has a capacity of 3,000 gallons and/or a
depth of 42 inches or more of water, shall erect and maintain thereon an
adequate enclosure surrounding the property or pool area, sufficient to make
such body of water inaccessible to children. Such enclosure, including gates
therein, shall be not less than five feet above the underlying ground. All
gates shall be self-closing and self- latching with latches placed four feet
above the underlying ground and otherwise made inaccessible from the outside to
children. Said Fence shall be constructed in conformance with and subject to
the state Building Code and approved and inspected by the City Building
inspector. Existing pools not presently in compliance with this provisions
shall comply prior to any water being allowed in the pool.
      (2)   Protective devices. A pool cover or other protective device
approved by the City Building inspector shall be an acceptable enclosure so
long as the degree of protection afforded by the substituted devices or
Structures is not less than the protection afforded by the enclosure, gate and
latch described above and is in compliance with the American Society for
Testing and Materials (ASTM) standard F1346. The substitution with such a pool
cover or other protective device shall be done by the issuance of a Certificate
of Compliance and shall be considered a Variance (not a zoning-type Variance)
from the provision of subsection (a)(11)a of this section and a written request
for the Certificate of Compliance and Variance shall be submitted to the City
Clerk-Administrator.
      (3)   Drainage of pools into public Streets or other public drainageways
shall require written permission of the appropriate local public officials.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.091 SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect and regain the
natural and scenic beauty of the roadsides throughout the City. By the
construction of public roads, the public has created views to which the public
retains a right-of-way view and it is the intent of these standards to prevent
the taking of that right.
   (B)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no Sign
shall be erected, constructed, altered, rebuilt, or relocated until a Sign
permit or Conditional Use permit for the Sign has been issued according to the
chart in division (GG) below. However, no permit will be required under this
chapter for the following Signs:
      (1)   All Signs under ten square feet in area, except those that require
a Conditional Use permit;
      (2)   Real estate sale Signs under nine square feet in area;
      (3)   Political Signs; and
      (4)   Warning Signs which do not exceed nine square feet in area.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   SIGN. A display, illustration, Structure, or device which directs attention
to an object, product, place, activity, Person, institution, organization, or
Business.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A Sign that directs attention to a Business or profession
or to a commodity, service or entertainment not sold or offered upon the
premises where such Sign is located or to which it is attached.
   SIGN AREA. The entire area within a continuous perimeter enclosing the
extreme limits of such Sign. However, such perimeter shall not include any
structural elements lying outside of such Sign and not forming an integral part
or border of the Sign. The maximum square footage of multi-faced Signs shall
not exceed two times the allowed square footage of a single-faced Sign.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A Sign that directs attention to a Business or profession or
to the commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the premises
where such Sign is located or to which it is attached.
   SIGN, FLASHING. An illuminated Sign which has a light source not constant in
intensity or color at all times while such Sign is in use.
   SIGN, GROUND. A Sign which is supported by one or more uprights, poles or
braces in or upon the ground.
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. A Sign which identifies the inhabitant of the
Dwelling, not to exceed two square feet in size.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A Sign which is lighted with an artificial light source.
   SIGN, MOTION. A Sign that has revolving parts or Signs which produce moving
effects through the use of illumination.
   SIGN, NAMEPLATE. A Sign which states the name and/or address of the
Business, industry or occupant of the site and is attached to said Building or
site.
   SIGN, PEDESTAL. A ground Sign usually erected on one central shaft or post
which is solidly affixed to the ground.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A Sign offering property (land and/or Buildings) for
sale, lease or rent.
   SIGN, ROOF. A Sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet of a Building.
   SIGN, SHOPPING CENTER OR INDUSTRIAL PARK. A Business Sign designating a
group of shops or offices (more than three).
   SIGN, STRUCTURE. The supports, uprights, braces, and framework of the Sign.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY OR SEASONAL. A Sign placed on a Lot or parcel of land for a
period not to exceed 90 days out of any 12- month period. No Sign permit fee is
required.
   SIGN, WALL. A Sign attached to or erected against the wall of a Building
with the exposed face of the Sign a plane parallel to the plane of said wall.
   SIGN, WARNING. A Sign which warns the public of a danger or hazard in the
immediate vicinity and is obviously not intended for advertising purposes.
   (D)   Preventing egress. No Sign shall be allowed that prevents egress from
any door, window, or fire escape; that tends to accumulate debris as a fire
hazard, or that is attached to a standpipe or fire escape or in any other way
constitutes a hazard of health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   (E)   Traffic interference. No Sign may be erected that, by reason of
position, shape, movement, color or any other characteristic, interferes with
the proper functioning of a traffic Sign or signal or otherwise constitutes a
traffic hazard; nor shall Signs be permitted which would otherwise interfere
with traffic control.
   (F)   Private Signs.
      (1)   Private traffic circulation Signs and traffic warning Signs in
alleys, parking lots, or in other hazardous situations may be allowed on
private property provided that such Signs do not exceed three square feet and
are used exclusively for traffic-control purposes.
      (2)   Private Signs, other than public utility warning Signs, are
prohibited within the public right-of-way of any Street or way or other public
property.
   (G)   Illuminated Signs.
      (1)   Illuminated Signs may be permitted, but flashing Signs, except ones
giving time, date, temperature, weather, or similar public service information,
shall be prohibited. Signs giving off intermittent, rotating, or directional
light which may be confused with traffic, aviation or emergency signaling are
prohibited.
      (2)   Illuminated Signs shall be diffused or indirect so as not to direct
rays of light into adjacent property or onto any public Street or way. No
illuminated Signs or their support Structure shall be located closer than 25
feet to a roadway surface or closer than ten feet to a road right-of-way line
or property line, notwithstanding more restrictive portions of this section.
   (H)   Political Signs. Political Signs are allowed in any district, on
private property, with the consent of the Owner of the property beginning 46
days before the state primary in a state general election year Such Signs may
not exceed a size of 20 inches x 40 inches. Such Signs must be removed within
ten days following the date of the election or elections to which they apply.
   (I)   Displays. In any district, animal displays, lights directed skyward,
pieces of sculpture, fountains or other displays or features which do not
clearly fall within the definition of a Sign, but which direct attention to an
object, product, place, activity, Person, institution, organization or
Business, shall require a Conditional Use permit. Manufactured Signs on wheels
or otherwise capable of being moved from place to place shall conform to the
provisions of this chapter just as permanently affixed Signs.
   (J)   Real estate Signs.
      (1)   Real estate sales Signs may be placed in any Yard providing such
Signs are not closer than ten feet to any property line.
      (2)   Real estate development project sales Signs may be erected for the
purpose of selling or promoting a single-Family or multiple-Family residential
project of ten or more Dwelling Units, provided:
         (a)   Such Signs shall not exceed 100 square feet in area;
         (b)   Only one such Sign shall be erected on each road Frontage with a
maximum of three such Signs per project;
         (c)   Such Signs shall be removed when the project is 80% completed,
sold, or leased;
         (d)   Such Signs shall not be located closer than 100 feet to any
existing residence; and
         (e)   Such Signs over 32 square feet shall only be permitted by a Sign
permit.
      (3)   Multiple-Family Dwelling project identification Signs may be
erected for the purpose of identifying a Multiple-Family Dwelling project of
three or more Dwellings. Such Sign shall not exceed 70 square feet and only one
such Sign shall be erected at each entrance to the project, but in no case
shall there be more than four such Signs for any one project.
   (K)   Construction Signs. Construction Signs not exceeding 32 square feet in
area shall be allowed in all Zoning Districts during construction. Such Signs
shall be removed when the project is substantially completed.
   (L)   Signs on walls or other objects. Signs shall not be painted directly
on the outside wall of a Building, Signs shall not be painted on a Fence, tree,
stone, or other similar objects in any district.
   (M)   Roof Signs. Roof Signs are prohibited in all districts.
   (N)   Signs on benches and the like. Signs on benches, newsstands, car
stands, bus stop shelters and similar places shall require a Sign permit as
provided in this section.
   (O)   Electrical Signs. All Signs and displays using electric power shall
have a cut-off switch on the outside of the Sign and on the outside of the
Building or Structure to which the Sign is attached. No electrically
illuminated Signs shall be permitted in a residential or agricultural district.
   (P)   Inside Signs. The regulations contained herein do not apply to Signs
painted, attached by adhesive, or otherwise attached directly to or visible
through windows and glass portions of doors.
   (Q)   Offensive Signs. No Signs shall appeal to a “prurient interest in sex,
which portray sexual conduct in a patently offensive way, and which do not have
serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value.”
   (R)   Required Signs. In all Zoning Districts one identification Sign shall
be required per Building, except accessory Structures and residential Buildings
which shall be required only to display the Street address or property number.
   (S)   Advertising Signs. Advertising Signs shall not be located closer than
3,000 feet to any other Sign on the same side of a Street or highway.
   (T)   Multi-faced Signs. Multi-faced Signs shall not exceed two times the
allowed square footage of a single-faced Sign.
   (U)   Maximum size. Except for more restrictive subsections of this Sign
section, no Sign that exceeds 100 square feet in area shall be erected or
maintained:
      (1)   Which would prevent any traveler on any Street from obtaining a
clear view of approaching Vehicles on the same Street for a distance of 500
feet;
      (2)   Which would be closer than 1,350 feet to a national, state, or
local park, historic site, picnic or rest area, Church, or school;
      (3)   Which would be closer than 100 feet to residential Structures; and
      (4)   Which would partly or totally obstruct the view of a lake, river,
rocks, wooded area, stream or other point of natural and scenic beauty.
   (V)   Signs by Conditional Use permit. Where a Use is permitted in a Zoning
District by Conditional Use permit, the Sign for that Use shall require a
Conditional Use permit unless the Sign is otherwise provided for in this
chapter.
   (W)   Signs in agricultural districts. No Signs shall be permitted in an
agricultural district except the following enumerated Signs if authorized by a
Sign permit or other permit as provided in this chapter:
      (1)   Type of Signs allowed. Nameplate, real estate sales, ground,
political, temporary, wall, identification, and Business;
      (2)   Two surfaces. No Sign shall be so constructed as to have more than
two surfaces;
      (3)   Number of each type of Sign allowed per Lot Frontage. One of each
of the permitted type Signs except temporary Signs where two will be permitted
and political Signs where one for each candidate will be permitted;
      (4)   Size. Not more than a total of 32 square feet with an eight-foot
maximum for any dimension except as otherwise restricted in this section. Total
square feet of permitted Signs per Lot or parcel shall not exceed 100 square
feet;
      (5)   Height. The top of the display shall not exceed ten feet above
grade; and
      (6)   Setback. Any Sign over two square feet shall be Setback at least
ten feet from any Lot line.
   (X)   Permitted Signs in Residential Districts
      (1)   Types of Signs allowed. Nameplate, real estate sales, political,
ground, temporary, wall and identification;
      (2)   Surfaces. No Sign shall be so constructed as to have more than two
surfaces;
      (3)   Number of each type of Sign allowed per Lot Frontage. One of each
of the permitted type Signs, except temporary Signs where two will be permitted
and political Signs where one for each candidate will be permitted. No more
than 32 square feet of total display area will be permitted at any one time in
developed areas;
      (4)   Size. Not more than a total of 16 square feet with a four-foot
maximum for any dimension except as otherwise restricted in this section. Total
square feet of all Signs shall not exceed 32 square feet per Lot;
      (5)   Height. The top of the display shall not exceed eight feet above
grade; and
      (6)   Setback. Any Sign over one and one-half square feet shall be
Setback at least ten feet from any Lot line.
      (7)   Wall Signs. The height of any wall sigh placed within this district
shall not exceed the height of the wall upon which it is proposed to be placed
by the property Owner and in no case shall such Sign be illuminated.
   (Y)   Permitted Signs in Commercial districts.
      (1)   Type of Signs allowed. Business, nameplate, identification,
illuminated, ground, pedestal, motion, political, real estate sales, Shopping
Center where there are three or more Businesses, temporary and wall.
      (2)   Number of each type of Sign allowed per Lot Frontage. One real
estate sales Sign, two temporary Signs, one nameplate Sign, one political Sign
for each candidate and one Business Sign or one Shopping Center Sign.
      (3)   Size.
         (a)   Except as provided herein, the total square footage of Sign area
for each Lot shall not exceed two square feet of Sign area for each lineal foot
of Lot Frontage, except where a location is a Corner Lot, the amount may be
increased by one square foot of Sign area per front foot of public right-of-way
along a side Lot line.
         (b)   No Sign shall exceed 200 square feet in area.
         (c)   Each real estate sales Sign, temporary Sign and political Sign
shall not exceed 35 square feet in area.
         (d)   Each nameplate Sign shall not exceed 100 square feet in area.
         (e)   Height. The top of the display shall not exceed 35 feet above
the average grade.
      (4)   Setback. Any Sign over six square feet shall be Setback at least
ten feet from any Lot line. In no case shall any part of a Sign be closer than
two feet to a vertical line drawn at the property line. All Signs over 100
square feet shall be Setback at least 50 feet from any residential or
agricultural district.
      (5)   Wall Signs. Where wall Signs are proposed to be sued by a property
Owner within the Commercial district, the height of such Signs shall not exceed
the height of the wall upon which they are proposed to be placed.
   (Z)   Permitted Signs in industrial districts.
      (1)   Type of Signs allowed. Advertising, Business, nameplate,
illuminated, ground, pedestal, political, real estate sales, temporary,
identification, wall, and motion.
      (2)   Number of each type of Sign allowed per Lot Frontage. One
advertising Sign on any Lot having a Frontage of 150 feet or more. One of each
of the permitted type Signs except temporary where two will be permitted and
political Signs where one for each candidate will be permitted.
      (3)   Size.
         (a)   Except as provided herein, the total square footage of Sign area
for each Lot shall not exceed two square feet for each lineal foot of Lot
Frontage except where a location is a Corner Lot, the amount may be increased
by one square foot of Sign area per front foot of public right-of-way along a
side Lot line.
         (b)   No Sign shall exceed 200 square feet in area.
         (c)   Each real estate sales Sign, temporary Sign and political Sign
shall not exceed 35 square feet in area.
      (4)   Height. The top of the display shall not exceed 35 feet in height
above grade.
      (5)   Setback. Any Sign over ten square feet shall be Setback at least
ten feet from any Lot line. In no case shall any part of a Sign be closer than
two feet to a vertical line drawn at the property line. All Signs over 100
square feet shall be Setback at least 50 feet from any residential or
agricultural district.
   (AA)   Permitted Signs in Planned Unit Development districts or Uses
requiring a Conditional Use permit.
      (1)   Type, number, size, height, and Setback as specifically authorized
by terms of the issued permit.
      (2)   To the extent feasible and practicable, Signs shall be regulated in
a manner similar to that in the Use district most appropriate to the Principal
Use involved.
   (BB)   Sign design, construction, and maintenance.
      (1)   Required marking on Signs.
         (a)   After the effective date of this chapter, every Sign for which a
permit is required shall have painted in a conspicuous place thereon in letters
not less than one inch in height, the date of erection, the permit number and
voltage of any electrical apparatus used in connection therewith.
         (b)   Every outdoor advertising Sign erected under the provisions of
this chapter shall be plainly marked with the name of the Person or firm
erected such Sign.
      (2)   Projecting Signs. Projecting Signs are not allowed in any district.
      (3)   Ground Signs.
         (a)   No ground Sign shall be erected, constructed, altered, rebuilt,
or relocated to a height at the top of the display exceeding 35 feet above the
ground, unless otherwise restricted in this section.
         (b)   No ground Sign display for which a permit is required shall be
erected to a height of more than 12 feet above the ground, unless the face is
constructed of sheet metal or other noncombustible facing materials.
         (c)   The bottom of the facing of every ground Sign shall be at least
three feet above the ground, which space may be filled with Landscaping,
platform or decorative trim of light wood or metal construction.
         (d)   The soil used for the dug-in type of anchor or post support
shall be carefully placed and thoroughly compacted. The anchors and supports
shall penetrate to a depth below ground greater than that of the frost line.
      (4)   Wall Signs. Wall Signs attached to exterior walls of solid masonry
or concrete shall be safely and securely attached to the same by means of metal
anchors, bolts, or expansion screws of not less than three-eighths inch in
diameter which shall be embedded at least five inches. No wooden blocks or
anchorage with wood used in connection with screws or nails shall be considered
proper anchorage, except in the case of wall Signs attached to Buildings with
walls of wood. No wall Sign shall be entirely supported by an unbraced parapet
wall.
   (CC)    Sign maintenance.
      (1)   Painting. The Owner of any Sign shall be required to have such Sign
properly painted at least once every two years, if needed, including all parts
and supports of the Sign, unless such parts or supports are galvanized or
otherwise treated to prevent rust.
      (2)   Area around Sign. The Owner or lessee of any Sign, or the Owner of
the land on which the Sign is located shall keep the grass, weeds or other
growth cut and the area free from refuse between the Sign and the Street and
also for a distance of six feet behind and at the ends of said Sign.
   (DD)   Obsolete Signs. Any Sign for which no permit has been issued shall be
taken down and removed by the Owner, agent or Person having the beneficial Use
of the Building, Structure, or land upon which the Sign may be found within 30
days after written notice from the Zoning Administrator.
   (EE)   Unsafe or dangerous Signs. Any Sign which becomes structurally unsafe
or endangers the safety of a Building or premises or endangers the public
safety, shall be taken down and removed or structurally improved by the Owner,
agent or Person having beneficial Use of the Building, Structure, or land upon
which the Sign is located within ten days after written notice from the Zoning
Administrator.
   (FF)   Permit fees. The application for a Sign permit shall be in accordance
with the current City fee schedule, as amended.
   (GG)   Expiration of permit. All Sign permits for an advertising Sign,
Business Sign, motion Sign, pedestal Sign or any Sign over 150 square feet in
area shall expire three years from the date of issuance. If the work authorized
under a Sign permit has not been completed within six months after the date of
issuance, the permit shall become null and void.
   (HH)   Sign permit chart.
 Agricultural Residential                                         Planned Unit
 District     District    Commercial District Industrial District Development
                                                                  District
                                                                          Planned
                           Agricultural Residential Commercial Industrial Unit
                           District     District    District   District   Development
                                                                          District
Advertising Sign           N            N           N          SP         N
Business Sign              C            C           SP         SP         C
Displays                   C            N           C          C          C
Flashing Sign              N            N           N          N          N
Ground Sign                P            P           SP         SP         C
Identification Sign        P            P           P          P          C
Illuminated Sign           N            N           SP         SP         C
Motion Sign                N            N           SP         SP         C
Nameplate Sign             SP           SP          SP         SP         C
Pedestal Sign              P            P           SP         SP         C
Political Sign             P            SP          P          P          C
Real estate Sign           P            SP          P          P          C
Roof Sign                  N            N           N          N          N
Shopping Center Sign       N            N           SP         SP         C
Temporary or seasonal Sign P            P           P          P          C
Wall Sign                  SP           SP          SP         SP         C
Warning Sign               P            SP          P          P          P
See these divisions of §  (W)          (X)         (Y)        (Z)        (AA)
157.091 for further detail
C = Conditional Use permit with public hearing      P = Permitted Use
N = Not allowed      SP = Sign permit
 
§ 157.092 INTERIM USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Interim Uses and Structures may be placed in agricultural, Commercial
or industrial districts after obtaining a Conditional Use permit. These interim
Uses may be utilized in a temporary manner as specified by the City Council,
during which the development planned for the area in the City plan has not yet
occurred.
   (B)   Interim Uses and Structures utilized for interim Storage of wholesale
or retail products or shelter of farm crops and animals shall be limited to a
maximum of five years or as stipulated by the City Council. No wholesale or
retail sales or sales office activities shall occur on the site or in the
Structure.
   (C)   Interim Uses and Structures shall not require additional public
roadway or premature extension of central sewer or water systems.
   (D)   The City Council may specify the length of time which may be utilized
for said interim Use or Structure. The specific length of time may be a
condition of approval of the Conditional Use permit.
   (E)   The Planning Commission and City Council shall review the interim Use
or Structure and shall limit the new structural investment on the site to a
specific dollar amount, which through a graduated time table of depreciation of
the Structure should reach zero book value at a specific year or length of
time, after which the interim Use or Structure shall be removed.
   (F)   Grading or alteration of the site, except for driveway access and
Building construction shall not be permitted for interim Uses or Structures.
   (G)   Conditional Use permits issued by the City Council for an interim Use
or Structure shall be recorded with the Register of Deeds by the applicant
prior to the issuance of Building permits or certificates of occupancy.
§ 157.093 AUTOMOBILE SALES AND SHOW ROOMS.
   The Building and premises for automobile sales and showrooms shall meet the
following requirements.
   (A)   Setbacks and Lot requirements.
      (1)   Parking. A minimum of 25-foot wide landscaped Yard shall be
required and maintained between any public Street right-of-way and parking lots
or Buildings.
      (2)   Contiguous site. Motor Vehicle sales shall be on one Lot or
contiguous Lots not separated by a public Street, alley or other Use.
      (3)   Lot Width. The minimum Lot Width shall be 150 feet at the minimum
required Front Yard Setback.
      (4)   Lot Area. A minimum Lot Area of two acres shall be required.
   (B)   Access driveways.
      (1)   The distance of the driveway from the Street intersection shall not
be less than 50 feet, provided however, greater distances may be required to
avoid reasonably anticipated traffic hazards.
      (2)   Minimum distance between driveways shall be 25 feet at the curb
cut.
      (3)   Minimum driveway angle to Street shall be 60 degrees, unless
otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
      (4)   Minimum distance between driveway and adjacent property shall be
five feet at the curb cut.
      (5)   No driveway shall exceed 25 feet in width and no curb cut shall
exceed 32 feet in width.
   (C)   Screening. A screen shall be erected and maintained along all property
lines separating institutional, residential Dwelling or Business and
professional office districts or Uses. The Screening required in this section
shall be not less than five feet in height.
   (D)   Landscaping. A landscaped Yard shall be constructed and maintained on
all areas of the site not devoted to the Building or parking areas.
   (E)   Curbing. Interior concrete or asphalt curbs shall be constructed
within the property to separate driving and parking surfaces from landscaped
areas. Interior curbs required by this section shall be a nominal six inches in
height.
   (F)   Surfacing. The entire site on which motor Vehicle sales is located,
other than that devoted to Buildings and Structures or landscaped areas, shall
be hard surfaced and maintained to control dust, erosion and drainage, before
operation of the Business begins.
   (G)   Parking. The following required Parking Spaces shall be shown and
designated on the site plan.
      (1)   Customer parking. A minimum of 16 customer Parking Spaces shall be
provided for every acre of total site area in a Commercial or Business
district, and in addition, three spaces for each 1,000 square feet of Gross
sales Floor Area.
      (2)   Employee parking. A minimum of two employee Parking Spaces shall be
provided for every three employees.
   (H)   Parking for outside sales and Storage. The maximum area permitted for
outside Storage of automobiles, new and used, shall not exceed five square feet
of outside Storage area to each one square foot of enclosed ground Floor Area.
No more than one automobile shall be stored on each 300 square feet of outside
paved Storage area. No rooftop parking shall be permitted.
   (I)   Surface drainage plan and improvements. A drainage plan shall
illustrate all paved area surface drainage flows. Catch basins and/or settling
ponds shall be required to dispose of interior parking or display area
drainage.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.094 RESERVED.
§ 157.095 Manufactured Homes.
   (A)   General. No Person shall park or occupy a Manufactured Home (see
definition, §
157.003) on the premises of a Lot with any occupied Dwelling or on any land
which is situated outside of an approved Manufactured Home park, except as
listed below.
   (B)   Manufactured Home parks and sales yard. A Manufactured Home may be
placed within an existing approved Manufactured Home park or sales yard.
   (C)   Use as accessory Dwelling Unit. A Manufactured Home may be permitted
by Certificate of Compliance in an agricultural district or an R-1 Residential
District if the Zoning Administrator finds the following conditions are
satisfied.
      (1)   The Manufactured Home will be an accessory Dwelling Unit to be
occupied by Persons who are:
         (a)   Infirm to the extent that they require extraordinary care; and
         (b)   That such care can only be provided, without great economic
hardship, by Family members residing in the principal Dwelling house on the
premises; and
         (c)   The infirmity and the need for care required by divisions (C)(1)
(a) and (C)(1)(b) above shall be shown by written statement of a physician.
      (2)   The Certificate of Compliance is so conditioned that it will expire
and terminate at such time as the care facility is no longer the residence of
the Person or Persons suffering from the infirmity which requires such care, or
at such time as such care is no longer required.
      (3)   At the time of termination of the Certificate of Compliance, the
Manufactured Home care facility shall be removed from the premises within 30
days when practical.
      (4)   The Certificate of Compliance permit is so conditioned so as to be
reviewed annually by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Temporary farm Dwelling. A Manufactured Home may be permitted by
Certificate of Compliance in an agricultural district if the Zoning
Administrator finds the following conditions are satisfied.
      (1)   The Manufactured Home will be an accessory Dwelling Unit located on
a farm of at least 75 acres in size.
      (2)   The Manufactured Home will be occupied by Persons who are:
         (a)   Members of the Family of the Persons occupying the principal
Dwelling house on the premises;
         (b)   Engaged in the occupation of farming on the premises as partners
or other Business associates of the Persons living in the principal Dwelling
house on the premises; and who earn 50% or more of their annual gross income
for federal income tax purposes from such farming on the premises.
      (3)   The Certificate of Compliance is so conditioned that it will expire
and terminate at such time as the Persons occupying the Manufactured Home are
no longer engaged in farming on the premises as required by division (D)(2)(b)
above.
      (4)   At the time of termination of the Certificate of Compliance, the
Manufactured Home temporary farm Dwelling shall be removed from the premises
within 30 days when practical.
      (5)   The Certificate of Compliance is conditioned so as to be reviewed
annually by the Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Temporary construction office. A Manufactured Home may be permitted as
a Certificate of Compliance in any district if the Zoning Administrator finds
the following conditions are satisfied.
       (1)   The Manufactured Home will be utilized as a field headquarters for
directing the ongoing construction of a project.
      (2)   Only one Manufactured Home shall be permitted on each project.
      (3)   The Manufactured Home have adequate sanitary facilities or the site
shall have temporary sanitary facilities installed.
      (4)   The Manufactured Home and Parking Spaces shall adhere to all
Setbacks for the Zoning District and shall only utilize the permitted access
driveway.
      (5)   The Manufactured Home shall not be Used as a Dwelling Unit.
      (6)   The Certificate of Compliance is issued only after the Building
permit has been issued. The Manufactured Home shall not be placed on the
construction site until both a Certificate of Compliance and a Building permit
have been issued.
      (7)   Such a permit shall expire when construction is completed or within
180 days from the date of issuance, whichever is less. Renewal of such a permit
may be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (8)   The Manufactured Home shall be removed within 30 days of the permit
termination.
   (F)   Temporary Dwelling Unit during construction. A Manufactured Home may
be permitted by a Certificate of Compliance in any residential or agricultural
district if the Zoning Administrator finds the following conditions are
satisfied.
      (1)   The Manufactured Home will be utilized as a temporary Dwelling Unit
by the present or potential occupant of a single- Family residence during the
construction, reconstruction or alteration of said residency by the present or
potential occupant.
      (2)   The Manufactured Home shall have adequate sanitary facilities as
prescribed by the City Building Official/sanitarian.
      (3)   The Certificate of Compliance is issued only after the Building
permit has been obtained for the proposed construction.
      (4)   The Manufactured Home and Parking Spaces shall adhere to all
Setbacks for the Zoning District and shall only utilize the permitted access
driveways.
      (5)   Such a permit shall expire when construction is completed or within
180 days from the date of issuance, whichever is less. Renewal of such permit
may be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   (G)   Federal and state standards. All Manufactured Homes permitted under
this section shall meet or exceed the current federal Manufactured Home
construction and safety standards. The Manufactured Home shall have a sanitary
sewer treatment and disposal system in compliance with this Code and the State
Pollution Control Agency and Health Department.
   (H)   Accessory Dwelling. When the Manufactured Home is utilized as an
accessory Dwelling Unit to the principal Dwelling Unit, the placement of the
Manufactured Home is subject to the same Zoning District dimensional Setbacks
as a principal Dwelling Unit.
   (I)   Road access. Manufactured Homes utilized as accessory Dwelling Units
shall use the existing road access driveway of the principal Dwelling Unit.
   (J)   Separation distance. Manufactured Homes utilized as accessory Dwelling
Units shall be separated by a minimum horizontal distance of 40 feet from any
other Structure.
   (K)   Ground anchors or tie downs. Manufactured Homes utilized as accessory
Dwelling Units shall have ground anchors or tie downs as approved by the State
Manufactured Home Code.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.096 Manufactured Home PARKS.
   (A)   Intent. The intent and purpose of this section is to assure quality
development equal to that found in other types of residential areas throughout
the City. Excellence of design, development and maintenance is the desired
objective.
   (B)   Determination of Manufactured. Any Dwelling Unit which is not designed
for easy and ready travel on the highway and which is intended rather for
special transport to a site for permanent or semi-permanent occupancy affixed
on a Lot to the ground in some manner may be considered as a relocated,
permanent Structure subject to zoning and Building Code regulations applied to
conventional construction. The Planning Advisory Commission shall determine if
a Dwelling Unit is “mobile” or is to be considered as a permanent Structure.
   (C)   Conditional Use permit. No Person shall attempt to develop or operate
a Manufactured Home park within the City without first obtaining a Conditional
Use permit therefor. The requirements of a Conditional Use permit shall prevail
over all other standards and requirements notwithstanding the more restrictive
sections of this chapter. A Conditional Use permit for a Manufactured Home park
may contain other requirements beyond those mentioned in this section.
   (D)   Application. The application for a Conditional Use permit, in addition
to other requirements, shall include the name and address of the developer and
a general description of the construction schedule and construction cost. The
application for a Conditional Use permit shall be accompanied by 12 copies of
plans which indicate the following:
      (1)   Location and size of the Manufactured Home park;
      (2)   Location, size and character of all Manufactured Home Lots,
Manufactured Home stands, Storage areas, recreation areas, laundry drying
areas, central refuse disposal, roadways, Parking Spaces and sites and all
Setback dimensions;
      (3)   Detailed Landscaping plans and specifications;
      (4)   Location and width of sidewalks;
      (5)   Plans for sanitary sewage disposal, surface drainage, water
systems, electrical service, telephone service and gas service;
      (6)   Plans for an overhead Street lighting system shall be submitted for
approval by the City Engineer;
      (7)   The method of disposing of garbage and refuse;
      (8)   Location and size of all Streets abutting the Manufactured Home
park and all driveways from such Streets to the park;
      (9)   Plans and specifications for all road construction either within
the park or directly related to park operation;
      (10)   Floor Plans of all service Buildings to be constructed within the
Manufactured Home park;
      (11)   Such other information as may be required or requested by the
City; and
      (12)   Detailed description of maintenance procedures and grounds
supervision.
   (E)   Application fees. The applicant shall pay to the City an application
fee in the amount in accordance with the current City fee schedule, as amended.
   (F)   General. Manufactured Home parks that are licensed by the State
Department of Health are Conditional Uses in any Zoning District that allows
the construction or placement of a Building Used or intended to be Used by two
or more families. All Manufactured Home parks shall, in addition to any
requirements imposed by rule of the State Department of Health or law, meet the
following Performance Standards and any other conditions placed on them by the
Conditional Use permit.
      (1)   A Manufactured Home park shall contain at least 150 fully developed
Lots. A minimum of 50 Manufactured Home stands must be fully developed,
together with all required auxiliary Buildings and areas, before any
Manufactured Home may be occupied.
      (2)   All Manufactured Homes shall be properly connected to a central
water supply and a public sanitary sewer system. All water and sewer systems
shall be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by
the City Engineer. Where a public water supply is available to the Manufactured
Home park or at the boundary of the park, a connection to said public water
supply shall be provided for each Manufactured Home. All water supply and
sanitation facilities must conform to the current regulations in Chapter 4 of
the County Development Code.
      (3)   All Manufactured Home parks shall have one or more recreational
areas which shall be easily accessible to all park residents. Recreational
areas shall be so located as to be free of traffic hazards and should, where
the topography permits, be centrally located. The size of such recreational
area shall be based upon a minimum of 15% of the land area (exclusive of
Streets), but no outdoor recreational area shall contain less than 2,000 square
feet. All equipment installed in such an area shall be owned and maintained by
the Owner or operator at their own expense.
      (4)   Each Manufactured Home park shall maintain a paved off-Street over-
load parking Lot for guests of occupants in the amount of one space for each
three coach sites and located within 300 feet of the unit to be served.
      (5)   All utilities, such as sewer, water, fuel, electric, telephone
antenna lead-ins, shall be buried to a depth specified by the City Engineer,
and there shall be no overhead wires or support poles except those essential
for Street or other lighting purposes. All utility connections shall be
approved by the Zoning Administrator prior to connection and electrical service
shall be at least 110-volt, 50-ampere capacity. Plans for the disposal of
surface storm water shall be approved by the City Engineer.
      (6)   A properly landscaped area shall be adequately maintained around
each Manufactured Home park. All Manufactured Home parks located adjacent to
industrial or Commercial land Uses shall be provided with Screening, such as
Fences or natural growth, along the property boundary lines separating the park
from such adjacent non-residential Uses.
      (7)   No Manufactured Home, off-Street Parking Space, or Building shall
be located within 30 feet of the exterior boundary of any Manufactured Home
park. No Manufactured Home shall be located within 125 feet of the existing or
planned centerline of a public Street.
      (8)   Signs shall be limited to one nameplate or identification Sign not
to exceed 25 square feet, with lighting, height and location as approved by the
Zoning Administrator and have a 15-foot Setback from the front line.
      (9)   The area beneath all Manufactured Homes shall be enclosed with a
material that shall be generally uniform throughout the entire Manufactured
Home park, except that such an enclosure must be so constructed that it is
subject to reasonable inspection. No obstruction shall be permitted that
impedes the inspection of plumbing, electrical facilities and related
Manufactured Home equipment.
      (10)   Each Manufactured Home Lot shall be served by a central fuel
supply system such as natural gas or a central LP system. No separate private
fuel containers, such as fuel oil tanks or LP tanks shall be allowed in the
Manufactured Home park.
      (11)   All Manufactured Home parks shall have an area or areas set aside
for dead Storage. Boats, boat trailers, hauling trailers and all other
equipment not generally stored within the Manufactured Home or within the
utility enclosure, that may be provided, shall be stored in a separate place
provided by the park Owner. This Storage place shall be screened. Such
equipment shall not be stored upon a Manufactured Home Lot which is occupied by
a Manufactured Home nor upon the Street within the Manufactured Home park.
      (12)   Each Manufactured Home Lot within a Manufactured Home park shall
abut on and have access to a private road used by the inhabitants of the park
and built and maintained by the Owner thereof. This road shall lead to and
furnish ingress and egress from a public Street through controlled driveways
which shall have a right-of-way at least 60 feet in width. The private roads
and access roads to public Streets shall be paved with a concrete or a
bituminous material complying with the specifications for the construction of
any City Street. The paved surface shall be at least 36 feet in width from curb
to curb. A concrete curb and gutter shall comply with all applicable City
chapters. There shall also be a paved three-foot wide walkway from the slab to
the Frontage curb. Access drives off roads to all Parking Spaces and
Manufactured Home slab sites shall be paved.
      (13)   Each Manufactured Home park shall have one or more central
community Buildings with central heating which must be maintained in a safe,
clean and sanitary condition. Said Buildings shall be adequately lighted during
all hours of darkness and shall contain laundry washers, dryers and drying
areas, public telephones and public mail boxes, in addition to public toilets
and lavatory. For each 100 Manufactured Home Lots or fractional part thereof,
there shall be one flush toilet and one lavatory for each sex.
      (14)   Every Structure in the Manufactured Home park shall be developed
and maintained in a safe, approved and substantial manner. The exterior of
every such Structure shall be kept in good repair and shall be repainted or
refinished when so directed by the City Building Inspector. All of said
Structures must be constructed to meet existing City codes. Portable fire
extinguishers rated for electrical and liquid fires shall be kept in all
service Buildings and other locations conveniently and readily accessible for
use by all occupants.
      (15)   All Structures shall require a Building permit. It is not the
intent of this section to repeal or abrogate any part of the Building Code. The
provisions of this section shall be enforced in addition to and in conjunction
with the provisions of the Building Code.
   (G)   Manufactured Home park Lots.
      (1)   Each Manufactured Home site shall contain at least 6,000 square
feet of land area for the exclusive use of the occupant and shall be at least
60 feet wide, which size site allows for a maximum length Manufactured Home of
55 feet. Larger Manufactured Homes will require longer Lots to comply with the
following requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Manufactured Homes shall be placed upon Manufactured Home Lots so
that there shall be at least a 20-foot clearance between Manufactured Homes and
20 feet between the front of the Manufactured Home and the front Lot line and
25 feet between the rear of the Manufactured Home and the rear Lot line.
Manufactured Homes shall be parked no closer than ten feet to a side Lot line.
      (3)   The area occupied by a Manufactured Home shall not exceed 50% of
the total area of a Manufactured Home site; land may be occupied by a
Manufactured Home, a Vehicle, a Building, a cabana, a ramada, a carport, an
awning, Storage closet or cupboard or any Structure.
      (4)   The Yards shall be landscaped except for necessary driveway and
sidewalk needs which shall not exceed one-half the width of the site.
Landscaping shall include at least one tree, hedges, grass, Fences, windbreaks
and the like. Temporary Storage shall not be allowed in the lawn area.
      (5)   Each Manufactured Home Lot shall have paved off- Street Parking
Space for at least two automobiles. Each space shall be ten feet by 20 feet
minimum or as approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   The Corners of each Manufactured Home Lot shall be clearly marked
and each site shall be numbered.
      (7)   Each Manufactured Home Lot shall be so designed that automobiles
may not be parked within five feet of the side of any Manufactured Home or
within five feet of the front or back of the Manufactured Home.
   (H)   Manufactured Home stands. The area of the Manufactured Home stand
shall be improved to provide adequate support for the placement and tie-down of
the Manufactured Home, thereby securing the superstructure against uplift,
sliding, rotation and overturning.
      (1)   The Manufactured Home stands shall not heave, shift or settle
unevenly under the weight of the Manufactured Home, due to frost action,
inadequate drainage, vibration or other forces acting upon the Structure.
      (2)   The Manufactured Home stand shall be provided with anchors and tie-
downs , such as cast-in-place concrete foundations or runways, screw augers,
arrowhead anchors or other devices providing for stability of the Manufactured
Home.
      (3)   Anchors and tie-downs shall be placed at least at each Corner of
the Manufactured Home stand and each anchor shall be able to sustain a minimum
tensile strength of 2,800 pounds or as approved by the current State Uniform
Manufactured Home Standards Code whichever is more restrictive.
   (I)   Operating conditions.
      (1)   The Manufactured Home park office shall be clearly marked and
illuminated during all hours of darkness. An illuminated map of the park noting
all roads and location of each unit shall be displayed outside and adjacent to
the office.
      (2)   An adult caretaker must be on duty at all times in the Manufactured
Home park.
      (3)   The operator of every Manufactured Home park shall maintain a
register in the office of the park indicating the name and address of each
permanent resident of said park, and the make, type, license and serial number
of each Manufactured Home and automobile of each permanent resident, and the
date of arrival and departure of each Manufactured Home. This information shall
be kept for at least three years after date occupant departs from park and
shall be available at all times to law enforcement officers, health authorities
and all other officials whose duties necessitate the acquisition of information
contained in the register.
      (4)   All land areas shall be adequately drained and properly maintained
free of dust, refuse, garbage, rubbish or debris. The proposed method of
garbage, waste and trash disposal must be approved by the City and must conform
to the regulations of the State Pollution Control Agency. Refuse collection
stands shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such stands shall be so
designed as to prevent containers from being tipped, to minimize spillage and
container deterioration and to facilitate cleaning around them. The Storage,
collection and disposal of refuse in the Manufactured Home park shall be so
conducted as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding
areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
      (5)   No Manufactured Homes shall be located in the Manufactured Home
park that do not conform to the requirements of the most current State Uniform
Manufactured Home Standards Code and has the state seal of compliance affixed
to it. No Manufactured Home shall be allowed therein which is in an unsanitary
condition, or which has an exterior in bad repair, or which is structurally
unsound, or which fails to protect the inhabitants of said Manufactured Home
against all the elements.
      (6)   No Person shall erect, place, construct, reconstruct, relocate,
alter, maintain, Use or occupy a Structure in a Manufactured Home park without
the written consent of the Owner or operator of said park.
      (7)   Dogs and animals shall not be permitted to run at large within the
Manufactured Home park.
      (8)   No public address or loud speaker system shall be permitted.
      (9)   No tents shall be erected or occupied, and there shall be no
outdoor camping anywhere in the trailer park.
      (10)   Laundry and clothes shall be hung out to dry only on lines located
in approved areas established and maintained exclusively for that purpose.
      (11)   No Person shall bring or keep an automobile into the Manufactured
Home park that does not have a current license and is not in operable
condition.
      (12)   Land in the Manufactured Home park shall be Used for residential
purposes only.
      (13)   Notification to the City Building Inspector shall be made 24 hours
in advance of the occupancy of any Manufactured Home not now occupied whether
on a Lot heretofore occupied or not for purposes of inspection for compliance
with plumbing and electrical and other requirements. A fee of $7.50 shall be
paid as the inspection fee for inspection of the Manufactured Home and hook-
ups.
      (14)   Each Manufactured Home shall be equipped with an approved fire
extinguisher.
      (15)   No open fires shall be permitted within the park and no fires in
burners or incinerators shall be left unattended at any time. The operator
shall provide safe, adequate incinerator service in full compliance with any
state laws or local chapters pertaining thereto.
   (J)   Inspection.
      (1)    On or before January 10 of each year following the first 12-month
period that a permit has been in force under this chapter, the operator shall
pay an annual inspection fee to the City. Such inspection fee shall be in
accordance with the current City fee schedule, as amended; Occupancy of Lots
for determining this fee shall be as of January 1.
      (2)    All Manufactured Home parks established prior to the adoption of
this chapter shall be subject to inspection provisions of this chapter and
shall pay the inspection fee provided in division (J)(1) above commencing
January 1 of the year following adoption of this chapter. Before any
enlargement, intensification or alteration of such pre-existing Manufactured
Home parks may occur, application for and approval of a Conditional Use permit
must be completed. Any such enlargement, intensification or alteration shall be
treated as a new park and the same rules and regulations of this section shall
apply.
      (3)   Periodic inspections by the City Zoning Administrator of the entire
park and all its facilities may be required. Utility and heating facilities may
be inspected at least once every six months.
   (K)   Violations. Failure to comply with any provision or requirement of
this chapter or with any provision or requirement imposed upon the Manufactured
Home park or Owner or operator by the terms of the permit or the terms of any
contract, agreement or stipulation entered into or imposed by the City as part
of or in connection with the said permit shall be cause of revocation of the
Manufactured Home park permit by the City after ten-day mailed notice of
violation and time and place of hearing to the Owner and operator and a hearing
by the City Council. Compliance with the terms of this chapter shall be a
condition precedent to the issuance of a state license and shall run with the
license so as to be an essential part thereof. Upon revocation of a permit by
the City, no further occupancy of the Manufactured Homes in the park shall be
allowed, but the City may allow a reasonable time for termination of occupancy.
This section shall apply in all respects to any violation of provisions
previously in effect that continue to control existing occupied Manufactured
Home park areas.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.097 RECREATION VEHICLE OR TRAILER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A camper or travel trailer of the type generally Used temporarily as
living quarters during the hunting, fishing or vacation season and duly
licensed and registered under the laws of the state may be parked on
residential property in the City, provided however, that such camper or travel
trailer shall not, while so parked, be Used as a permanent human Dwelling
place, living abode or living quarters.
   (B)   A camper, travel trailer or other recreational Vehicle parked on a Lot
within an agricultural or Residential District shall comply with all parking
and Building Setbacks for the Zoning District and shall only utilize the
existing permitted access driveway into the site. A camper, travel trailer or
other recreational Vehicle may not be parked on any land outside of an approved
trailer park or an approved sales Lot, except that the parking of one
unoccupied trailer, less than 25 feet in length, in an accessory Private
Garage, Building or in the Rear Yard of a Residential District is permitted
provided that no living quarters shall be maintained or any Business practices
in said trailer while it is so parked or stored.
   (C)   A camper or travel trailer of the type described in division (A) above
and owned by a non-resident guest, or visitor may be parked or occupied by said
guest or visitor on property on which a permanent Dwelling Unit is located, for
a period not to exceed 30 days while visiting the resident of said property.
The recreational Vehicle or trailer shall have self-contained sanitary
facilities or standard on-site facilities as required by the City Building
Official/sanitarian.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator may, upon application, grant a Certificate of
Compliance for the Use of a residential trailer or similar portable unit for
temporary residential purposes within the City in conjunction with a home
construction project that is underway, provided however, that a duly authorized
and valid Building permit shall have been approved by the City Building
Official prior to the application for a Certificate of Compliance.
   (E)   The applicant for said Certificate of Compliance shall file an
application with the Zoning Administrator setting forth the area in which said
trailer is to be located, together with a copy of the Building permit for the
home to be constructed on said property.
   (F)   The term of said Certificate of Compliance shall not exceed 120 days
or upon completion of construction of the residential home in question,
whichever comes first.
   (G)   The Zoning Administrator may attach such conditions and obligations to
the issuance of said Certificate of Compliance as it deems necessary to protect
the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the City.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.098 RECREATION VEHICLE OR TRAILER PARK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Trailer park operation. No Person, firm or corporation shall develop
or operate any trailer park without having first obtained a Conditional Use
permit.
   (B)   Application. The application for a Conditional Use permit, in addition
to the requirements, shall indicate the name and address of the developer and a
general description of the construction schedule and construction costs. The
application for a Conditional Use permit shall be accompanied by 12 copies of
plans, which indicate the following:
      (1)   Location and size of trailer park;
      (2)   Location and size of all Vehicle or trailer Lots, dead Storage
areas, recreation areas, laundry drying areas, roadways, Parking Spaces and
sites and all Setback dimensions;
      (3)   Detailed Landscaping plans and specifications;
      (4)   Detailed grading plan with two-foot contour intervals;
      (5)   Plans for sanitary sewage disposal, surface drainage, water
systems, electrical service and gas service;
      (6)   Plans for an overhead Street lighting system shall be submitted for
approval by the City Engineer;
      (7)   The method of disposing of garbage and refuse;
      (8)   Location, size and character of each Lot;
      (9)   Location and size of all Streets abutting the trailer park;
      (10)   Road construction plans and specifications;
      (11)   Plans for any and all Structures; and
      (12)   Such other information as may be required or requested by the
City.
   (C)   Designation of Uses. The trailer park design shall designate specific
areas for primitive tent camping, Recreation Vehicles and trailers.
   (D)   Trailer park Lots. On any trailer park Lot, the placement of
recreational Vehicles or trailers shall conform to all Setback and other
requirements of the Zoning District in which said Lot is located.
   (E)   Performance Standards for trailer parks.
      (1)   All water supply and sanitary facilities must conform to the
current recommendations in the County Development Code and those of the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
      (2)   All trailer parks shall have at least 20% of the land area
(exclusive of internal Streets) developed for recreational Use (i.e., tennis
courts, children’s play equipment, swimming pools, golf greens and the like)
which shall be developed and maintained by the Owner or operator at their own
expense. All parks must have an area or areas set aside for dead Storage and
over-load parking. Open air drying of laundry and clothes shall be allowed only
in approved areas established and maintained exclusively for that purpose.
      (3)   All utilities, such as sewer, water, fuel, electric, telephone and
television antenna lead-ins, shall be buried to a depth specified by the City
Engineer, and there shall be no overhead wires or support poles except those
essential for Street or other lighting purposes. All utility connections shall
be approved by the City prior to connection. Plans for the disposal of surface
storm water shall be approved by the City Engineer.
      (4)   All land area shall be adequately drained and properly maintained
free of dust, refuse, garbage, rubbish or debris. The proposed method of
garbage, waste and trash disposal must be approved by the City Council and must
meet or exceed the current Minnesota Department of Health Standards.
      (5)   All Structures shall require a Building permit. It is not the
intent of this section to repeal or abrogate any part of the Building Code. The
provisions of this section shall be enforced in addition to and in conjunction
with the provisions of the Building Code.
      (6)   The source of fuel for cooking, eating or other purposes of each
Lot shall be approved by the City Council. Periodic inspection of the entire
park by the City Zoning Administrator may be required.
      (7)   A properly landscaped area shall be adequately maintained around
each trailer park. No trailer or Building shall be located within 20 feet of
the exterior boundary of any park or within 40 feet of any exterior existing
public road right-of-way.
      (8)   Each trailer park shall contain at least 30 fully-developed trailer
Lots. Access to said parks shall be provided as required by the City Zoning
Administrator. The access Streets shall be paved in accordance with minimum
specifications required for the construction of any City Street.
      (9)   Advertising shall be limited to one Sign not to exceed 24 square
feet, with lighting, height and location as approved by the City Council.
      (10)   Each trailer park must have one or more central community
Buildings with central heating which must be maintained in a safe, clean and
sanitary condition. Said Buildings shall be adequately lighted during all hours
of darkness and shall contain laundry washers, dryers and drying areas, in
addition to public toilets and lavatory. Each trailer park shall have a
Building for the Use of the operator distinctly marked “office,” and such
marking shall be illuminated during all hours of darkness. An illuminated map
of the park shall be displayed at the office.
      (11)   An adult caretaker must be on duty at all times in the trailer
park. The operator of every park shall maintain a register in the office of the
park indicating the name and address of the Owner and occupants of each
trailer, the license number of each trailer and automobile of each occupant,
and the date of arrival and departure of each trailer. The Corners of each
trailer Lot shall be clearly marked and each Lot shall be numbered. The grounds
of the park shall be adequately lighted from sunset to sunrise.
      (12)   No dogs or animals shall be permitted to run at large within said
park. No public address or loud speaker system will be permitted.
      (13)   No trailer or recreation park shall be located so that drainage
from the park or camp area will endanger any water supply. All parks shall be
well drained. No portion of the park shall be located in an area subject to
flooding. No waste water from the trailers or other recreational Vehicles shall
be deposited on the surface of the ground.
      (14)   Each Lot shall abut or face a driveway or clear unoccupied space
of not less than 16 feet in width, which shall have unobstructed access to the
internal park road system.
      (15)   Lots shall be designed to allow an open space of at least 50 feet
between each Vehicle or tent and at least 30 feet between the Vehicle or tent
and the front Lot line abutting the interior park road system.
      (16)   Each Lot shall have 200 square feet of off-Street Parking Space,
or as approved by the Zoning Administrator, for two automobiles. No Parking
Spaces shall be closer than ten feet to any Side Yard Lot line.
      (17)   Each Lot, or pair of Lots, shall contain adequate containers to
store, collect and dispose of refuse and garbage so as to create no health
hazards, rodent damage, insect breeding, accident or hazardous fire areas or
air pollution. Each Lot, or pair of Lots, shall have such an insect proof,
water tight, rodent proof refuse container on the Lot(s).
      (18)   Each Lot shall be no further than 400 feet from the nearest,
readily available drinking water supply.
      (19)   Each Lot with an individual water system connection shall have a
water supply capable of supplying 100 gallons of water per site per day.
      (20)   All Recreation Vehicle and trailer park projects shall be equipped
with at least one central toilet, bathing and laundry Building, which meets or
exceeds the requirements of the State Department of Health, except that in
primitive tent camping areas, only toilet facilities shall be required as per
the State Department of Health.
      (21)   Outdoor cooking or burning shall be confined to fireplaces, pits,
grills or stoves which shall be permanently affixed to a designated location on
each Lot as per the site plan. Each permanent cooking or burning facility shall
be placed on the Lot so as to minimize fire hazards and smoke nuisance.
      (22)   Incineration of refuse, garbage or other wastes shall not be
permitted within any recreational Vehicle trailer park.
      (23)   All centralized refuse collection containers and equipment, and
park maintenance equipment shall be stored in a screened and Fenced service
yard within the park.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.099 SERVICE STATIONS.
   (A)   Before a Conditional Use permit for a service station is granted, the
minimum requirements of the Zoning District in which the service station is to
be located shall be met.
   (B)   A drainage system, subject to approval by the City Engineer, shall be
installed. The entire site other than that taken up by a Structure or planting,
shall be surfaced with concrete or other material approved by the City Council.
Pump islands shall not be placed in the required Yards. The area around the
pump island to a distance of eight feet on each side, shall be concrete. A box
curb not less than six inches above grade shall separate the public right-of-
way from the motor Vehicle service areas, except at approved entrances and
exits. No driveways at a property line shall be less than 50 feet from the
intersection of two Street right-of-way lines. Each service station shall have
at least two driveways with a minimum distance of 170 feet between centerlines
when located on the same Street.
   (C)   No Vehicles shall be parked on the premises other than those utilized
by employees or awaiting service. No Vehicle shall be parked or be awaiting
service longer than 15 days. Existing service stations shall comply with this
requirement within 45 days of the effective date of this chapter.
   (D)   Exterior Storage besides Vehicles shall be limited to service
equipment and items offered for sale on pump islands; Exterior Storage of items
offered for sale shall be within Yard Setback requirements and shall be located
in containers such as racks, metal trays and similar Structures designed to
display merchandise. Existing service stations shall comply with this
requirement within three months of the effective date of this chapter.
   (E)   All areas utilized for Storage, disposal or burning of trash, debris,
discarded parts and similar items shall be fully screened. All Structures and
grounds shall be maintained in an orderly, clean and safe manner. Existing
service stations shall comply with this requirement within nine months of the
effective date of this chapter.
   (F)   Business activities not listed in the definition of service stations
in this chapter are not permitted on the premises of a service station unless a
Conditional Use permit is obtained specifically for such Business. Such
activities include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Automatic car and truck wash;
      (2)   Rental of Vehicles, equipment or trailers; and
      (3)   General retail sales.
   (G)   Service stations shall be subject to all of the requirements necessary
for the review and issuance of a Conditional Use permit as per § 157.022.
   (H)   New below-ground Storage tanks shall be of a noncorrosive type and
installed according to all other state pollution control agency standards.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.100 APARTMENTS AND OTHER MULTIPLE-FAMILY USES.
   (A)   The construction of any Multiple Family Dwelling, including Apartments
and two Family Dwellings in the City of Lake St. Croix Beach shall be permitted
only as a part of a Planned Unit Development and/or Cluster Development
approved in accordance with the procedure for Planned Unit Developments and/or
Cluster Developments, notwithstanding other provisions of this code to the
contrary. The provisions of this section hereof shall be in addition to and not
in replaced of the requirements pertaining to Planned Unit or Cluster
Developments.
   (B)   Findings. In recommending the granting of a Conditional Use permit for
Structures containing three or more Dwelling Units, the Planning Commission
shall find the proposed development plan is in substantial compliance with the
approved Apartment standards and City housing policies on file with the Zoning
Administrator. In no event shall any Building housing three or more families in
a Residential District have less than 10,000 square feet of Lot Area.
   (C)   Conditional Use permit. A Conditional Use permit shall be required for
any Structure built in a TH Townhouse Residential District or an MF Multiple-
Family Residential District prior to issuance of a Building permit.
      (1)   The purpose of a Conditional Use permit shall be to assure that
site and Building plans as well as the impact on the neighborhood are fully
consistent with the in-tent and purpose of the zoning regulations and the
Comprehensive Plan for the area.
      (2)   All requests for Conditional Use permit shall be accompanied by a
series of site plans and data showing:
         (a)   Building locations, dimensions and elevations; all Signs,
Structures, entry areas, Storage sites and other structural improvements to the
site;
         (b)   Circulation plans for both pedestrian and vehicular;
         (c)   Fences and Screening devices;
         (d)   Solid waste disposal provisions and facilities;
         (e)   Storm drainage plans;
         (f)   Firefighting and other public safety facilities and provisions
such as hydrant locations and fire lanes;
         (g)   Data pertaining to numbers of Dwelling Units, sizes, Lot Area,
ratios and the like;
         (h)   Exterior wall materials and design information;
         (i)   A two-foot contour topographic map of the existing site;
         (j)   A grading plan illustrating the proposed grade changes from the
original topographic map. All site area, when fully developed, shall be
completely graded so as to adequately drain and dispose of all surface water,
storm water and ground water in such a manner as to preclude large scale
erosion, unwanted ponding and surface chemical run-off;
         (k)   A recreation plan illustrating in detail all recreational
facilities and Structures;
         (l)   A landscape plan. The site, when fully developed, shall be
landscaped according to a plan approved by the City Council. The Landscaping
plan shall specify the size, type and location of all trees and shrubbery and
the location of all seeded and sodded areas. The detailed landscape plan shall
be prepared by a state registered professional landscape architect; and
         (m)   A soil erosion control plan for the construction period. Areas
within the construction zone shall be Fenced with construction limit fencing as
per the plan to prohibit heavy machinery and/or materials from being placed on
areas not to be disturbed during construction. This shall, at a minimum,
include all slopes in excess of 18%.
   (D)   Review of plans. The required plans shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission and the City Council. The Conditional Use permit shall not be issued
until site plan approval is obtained from the City Council after the required
public hearing. The site plans, when approved, shall be made part of the
Conditional Use permit and non-compliance with the site plans may be deemed by
the City Council as grounds for the revocation of the Conditional Use permit.
   (E)   Bond. The City Council shall require the developer to post a full
performance bond guaranteeing that Street, utility, storm drainage, Landscaping
and other individually specified improvements to the Building site are
completed as proposed on plans approved by the City Council.
   (F)   Funds. The City Council, at its discretion, may require that the
developer deposit in the City park fund, the sum of $75 per Dwelling Unit to
aid in the provision of increased recreational facilities, which are
necessitated by growth in the City’s population from the development. These
monies shall be earmarked for capital improvements.
   (G)   Lot dimensions.
      (1)   Lot Area per Dwelling Unit with sewer shall be as per this chapter
(§
157.041).
      (2)   In areas not served with public sewer and water, an engineering
study shall be required to determine the population density that an on-site
sewage system would support. This should be related to the density of the
proposed development.
      (3)   Minimum Lot Width: 100 feet (with central sewer).
      (4)   Front Yard (Setback): 30 feet on a minor Street and 50 feet on a
major Street.
      (5)   Side Yard (Setback):
         (a)   Adjacent to another Lot: 15 feet or three-fourths the height of
the Building, whichever is greater; and
         (b)   Adjacent to a Street: 30 feet.
      (6)   Rear Yard (Setback): 30 feet.
      (7)   If a site abuts more than one Street or planned future Street, each
Street shall be treated as a Frontage.
   (H)   Parking requirements.
      (1)   Two Parking Spaces per unit shall be provided on the same site as
the Dwelling Unit. Each space shall not be less than nine feet wide and 20 feet
in length, or as approved by the Zoning Administrator, and each space shall be
served adequately with access drives.
      (2)   A minimum of 50% of the Parking Spaces shall be in Garages.
      (3)   Parking Spaces shall not be within 20 feet of the Side Lot Line,
within the Front Yard or within five feet of the Rear Lot Line.
      (4)   Bituminous or concrete driveways and parking areas with concrete or
asphalt curbing shall be required.
   (I)   Landscape provisions.
      (1)   The design shall make Use of all land contained in the site. All of
the site shall be related to the circulation, recreation, Screening, Building,
Storage, Landscaping and the like so that no portion of the site remains
undeveloped.
      (2)   A minimum of 20% of the site shall be landscaped.
   (J)   Screening.
      (1)   Screening to a height of at least five feet shall be required
where:
         (a)   Any off-Street parking area contains more than six Parking
Spaces and is within 30 feet of an adjoining residential zone; and
         (b)   Where the driveway to a parking area of more than six Parking
Spaces is within 15 feet of an adjoining residential zone.
      (2)   All Exterior Storage shall be screened. The Exterior Storage
Screening required shall consist of a solid Fence or wall not less than five
feet high, but shall not extend within 15 feet of any Street, driveway or Lot
line.
      (3)   Sidewalks shall be provided from parking areas, loading zones and
recreation areas to the entrances of the Building.
      (4)   Outdoor swimming pools or other intensive recreation shall observe
Setbacks required for the Principal Structure.
   (K)   Appearance. All Buildings within an Apartment development shall be so
planned that they have the equivalent of a front appearance on each exterior
vertical surface.
   (L)   General Building or structural requirements.
      (1)   Requirements for exterior wall surfacing and covering. All
Multiple-Family Dwelling Buildings shall be designed and constructed to have
the equivalent of a front appearance on each exterior surface. All Accessory or
ancillary Buildings, including Garages, shall be designed and constructed with
the same facing materials as the principal Building. Such material shall be
used in the same or better proportions as used on said principal Building.
      (2)   Restrictions against protruding air conditioners. No Multiple-
Family Dwelling shall have an air conditioning unit protruding from any
exterior wall, except to the extent required for proper functioning of said air
conditioning unit. An appropriate grill shall be provided to cover any such
protrusion, which grill shall be designed to appear as an integral part of the
exterior wall.
      (3)   Open air drying of clothes. Open air drying of clothes shall not be
permitted on the grounds of Multiple-Family Dwellings except when the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   The areas for open air drying of clothes are specifically drawn
on the original site plans; and
         (b)   A durable and dustless surface and adequate Screening is
provided for the entire area to be used for the drying of clothes.
      (4)   Play area. Each Multiple-Family Dwelling development containing
more than four Dwelling Units shall include a play area, part of which shall be
a paved surface.
      (5)   Parking areas. Any blighting or deteriorating aspects of the
Multiple-Family Dwelling development shall be placed upon or absorbed by the
site itself, rather than by neighboring residential Uses. This provision
particularly applies to the location of parking areas.
      (6)   No portion to remain undeveloped. The design shall make Use of all
land contained in the site. All of the site shall be related to the Multiple-
Family Use, either parking, circulation, recreation, Landscaping, Screening,
Building, Storage and the like so that no portion remains undeveloped.
      (7)   Trash incinerators and garbage. Except with Townhouses and
Multiple-Family Dwellings of four or less units, no exterior incineration and
all Storage shall be completed enclosed by walls and roof.
      (8)   Buildings to abut on public Street. If it is intended that
individual Buildings of a Multiple-Family Dwelling complex be sold separately,
provision shall be made so that each such Building to be sold abuts upon a
public Street.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.101 TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)    The construction of any Multiple Family Dwelling including
Townhouses, in the City of Lake St. Croix Beach shall be permitted only as a
part of a Planned Unit Development and/or Cluster Development approved in
accordance with the procedure for Planned Unit Development and/or Cluster
Development, notwithstanding other provisions of this code to the contrary. The
provisions of this Section hereof shall be in addition to and not in
replacement of the requirements pertaining to Planned Unit or Cluster
Developments.
   (B)    Where permitted. Townhouse developments, the placing of common wall
residential Dwelling Units in compact groupings, may be permitted in any
residential or Multiple-Family district following issuance of a Conditional Use
permit.
      (1)   In recommending the granting of a Conditional Use permit for
Structures containing three or more Dwelling Units, but only one Use, the
Planning Commission shall find that the proposed development plan is in
substantial compliance with the approved townhouse and Multiple-Family
standards of this chapter and the City housing policies on file with the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   All requests for Conditional Use permits for townhouse developments
shall be accompanied by a series of site plans and data showing:
         (a)   Complete details of the proposed site development, including
location of Buildings, driveways, Parking Spaces, dimensions of the Parking
Spaces, dimensions of the Lots, Lot Area and Yard dimensions;
         (b)   Complete recreation plans illustrating all recreational
facilities and Structures;
         (c)   Complete circulation plans for proposed pedestrian and vehicular
traffic;
         (d)   Population and services required (kind and amount);
         (e)   Complete plans for Screening and fencing devices;
         (f)   Preliminary architectural plans showing the Floor Plan and
elevations of the proposed Buildings;
         (g)   Complete plans and specifications for exterior wall finishes
proposed for all principal and accessory Structures;
         (h)   Complete data as to Dwelling Unit sizes and ratios of Dwelling
Units to total Lot space;
         (i)   A two-foot contour topographic map of the existing site;
         (j)   A grading plan illustrating the proposed grade changes from the
original topographic map. All site area, when fully developed, shall be
completely graded so as to adequately drain and dispose of all surface water,
storm water and ground water in such a manner as to preclude large scale
erosion and unwanted ponding and surface chemical run-off;
         (k)   Estimates of solid waste disposal and provisions and facility
plans for such disposal;
         (l)   Complete plans and documents of the homeowners association,
which explain:
            1.   Ownership and membership requirements;
            2.   Organization of the association;
            3.   Time at which the developer turns the association over to the
homeowners;
            4.   Approximate monthly or yearly association fee for homeowners;
and
            5.   Specific listing of items owned in common, including such
items as roads, recreational facilities, parking, common open space grounds and
utilities.
         (m)   A services and facilities plan shall contain a map or maps
setting forth the general location and extent of any and all existing and
proposed systems for sewage, domestic water supply and distribution, refuse
disposal, drainage, local utilities and rights-of-way, easements, facilities
and appurtenances necessary therefor;
         (n)   Firefighting and other public safety facilities and provisions,
such as hydrant locations and fire lanes;
         (o)   A landscape plan. The site, when fully developed, shall be
landscaped according to a plan approved by the City Council. The Landscaping
plan shall specify the size, type and location of all trees and shrubbery, and
the location of all seeded and sodded areas. The detailed landscape plan shall
be submitted by a state registered professional landscape architect;
         (p)   A soil erosion control plan for the construction period. Areas
within the construction zone shall be Fenced with construction limit fencing as
per the plan to prohibit heavy machinery and/or materials from being placed on
areas not to be disturbed during construction. This shall, at a minimum,
include all slopes in excess of 18%;
         (q)   A construction staging plan illustrating the staging phases and
order of construction in specific time periods; and
         (r)   A preliminary plat.
   (C)   Review of plans. The required plans shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission and the City Council. The Conditional Use permit shall not be issued
until site plan approval is obtained from the City Council after the required
public hearing. The site plans, when approved, shall be made part of the
Conditional Use permit and non-compliance with the site plans may be deemed by
the City Council as grounds for the revocation of the Conditional Use permit.
   (D)   Performance bond. The City Council shall require the developer to post
a 125% performance bond guaranteeing that Street, utility, storm drainage,
Landscaping and other individually specified improvements to the Building site
are completed as proposed on plans approved by the City Council.
   (E)   Building permits. Following approval of the site plans, Building
permits may be issued for proposed Structures within the approved development
permit area, provided:
      (1)   The project appears to be in substantial conformance with the final
approved Conditional Use permit and with the approved site plans;
      (2)   The necessary bonds have been acquired as provided in this section;
      (3)   The proposed improvement or Building construction is in accordance
with the approved order of construction as per the construction staging plan or
other specific terms of the approved permit as may be in any way involved
respecting a staged development;
      (4)   The Final Plat as is required by the terms of this chapter has been
filed with the appropriate governmental recording agency; and
      (5)   The proposed Structure meets the requirements of applicable codes.
   (F)   Standards. The following standards shall apply although these may be
modified and added to under provisions of the Conditional Use permit.
      (1)   Minimum project area per unit shall be 6,000 square feet.
      (2)   Diversity in housing types and architecture within an overall
design plan shall be required.
      (3)   In addition to common open space, each unit shall have an area
specifically designed and developed for outdoor living (patio, small Yard,
large balcony and the like) for individual Family enjoyment as contrasted to
Apartment living.
      (4)   Each project shall have Family or private recreation areas
specifically designed to accommodate the needs of the occupants.
      (5)   Air conditioners and other apparatus shall be designed such that
they blend in well with the architecture and in no way conflict with outdoor
living aspects of the project.
      (6)   Applicable standards for normal Multiple-Dwelling Structures (§
157.100) such as those relating to noise, fire alarms, Storage of trash and the
like shall be applied to townhouse developments.
      (7)   Not less than 25% of the total project area shall be useable open
space designed and developed for common use by the occupants of the development
for recreational and other common usage participation. Open spaces between
Structures, including those spaces being Used as recreational areas shall be
protected by adequate covenants or such other methods as may be specified.
      (8)   The dimensions and construction of roads and parking areas within
the development, whether or not public dedication of them is contemplated,
shall conform with all applicable City regulations and standards.
      (9)   The height of any Dwelling Unit shall not exceed 35 feet nor shall
the distance between Principal Structures be less than 30 feet.
      (10)   Any Dwelling Unit which contains a study or similar room capable
of being converted into a bedroom shall be considered as having said room as a
bedroom.
      (11)   Minimum total Floor Area requirements shall be the same as for
Multiple-Family Structures.
      (12)   All Buildings including attached or detached Garages shall be
Setback from the Street curb at least 25 feet. No Building within a townhouse
project shall be closer than 60 feet to any single-Family Zoning District.
      (13)   Each Dwelling Unit shall be provided with at least one and one-
half Parking Spaces and in addition, one fully enclosed Parking Space.
      (14)   The Storage of boats, campers, trailers, disabled cars or any
similar Uses shall be permitted only in a designated location on the site and
shall contain one-half Parking Space per Dwelling Unit. This Storage site shall
be Fenced, screened and have lockable gates.
      (15)   Each Dwelling shall be occupied by one Family as defined in the
zoning regulations. No Dwelling shall be utilized for any purpose other than
occupancy by a Family, unless specifically authorized by conditions of a
Conditional Use permit.
      (16)   Television antennae are to be centralized for four or more
attached groupings of Dwelling Units.
      (17)   A fee of $100 per Dwelling Unit shall be paid into the Park and
Recreation Fund as Building permits are issued. All or portions of said fee may
be refunded following full development of the project, provided it can be
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the City Council that all or portions of
the recreational needs of the occupants have been met within the project
development. Generally recognized standards for neighborhood recreational needs
shall be utilized as a guideline to making this decision.
      (18)   Townhouse projects proposed in Zoning Districts where public sewer
and water are not available or are not installed shall not exceed the allowable
net Dwelling Unit density for single-Family residences in the same district.
   (G)   Final Plat. All applicants for a Conditional Use permit for clustered
townhouse developments shall be required to file with the appropriate
governmental recording agency, a plat of said clustered townhouse development
complying with all of the requirements of Chapter 156, except to the extent
that the Planning Commission may have given specific permission to the effect
that specific portions of
Chapter 156 may be waived. Such required plats shall be filed within 120 days
after the date of the action giving final approval.
   (H)   Private Streets. Whenever it does not contradict the provisions of
this chapter as it relates to an adopted transportation plan or the protection
of opportunities for reasonable development of surrounding land adjacent to a
development proposed in the application, Streets which are intended to be kept
continuously closed to public travel or are at all times posted as private
Streets may be retained as private Streets and so reflected upon the Final Plat
made a part of the permit; provided an agreement is entered into between the
Owner of said private Streets and the City assuring that the construction,
operation and maintenance of said Streets will be accomplished in accordance
with the approved standards. (See §
157.110.)
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.102 CLUSTER DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Where permitted. Cluster Development, the placing of residential
Dwelling Units into compact groupings, may be permitted in any residential or
Multiple-Family district following the completion and approval of a preliminary
and Final Plat for a Cluster Development. The Planning Commission and City
Council shall find that the proposed development plan is in substantial
compliance with the applicable standards of this chapter and the City housing
policies on file with the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Defined. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A residential development in which a number of
Single-Family Dwelling Units are grouped on smaller than usual or minimum Lots,
leaving some land undivided for common use by all residents of the development.
   (C)   Common land. Common land may be preserved as agricultural land, open
recreational facilities or for preservation of natural or scenic resources.
   (D)   Exceptions. Except for minimum Setbacks and height limitations for the
district in which the development is proposed, altered dimensional standards
may be allowed as exceptions to this chapter for Cluster Development, provided
that:
      (1)   In Agricultural (A) and Residential-One (R-1) Districts of this
chapter, the number of Dwelling Units allowed shall not exceed the total number
of Dwelling Units allowed if the development was based on the minimum Lot size
requirements for a single-Family residential Subdivision;
      (2)   In Residential-Two, Three and Four (R-2, R-3, R-4) and Multiple-
Dwelling districts of this chapter, and only where public sewer and water will
be installed in the proposed Cluster Development, the number of Dwelling Units
shall not exceed 50% more than the total number of Dwelling Units allowed if
the development was based on the minimum Lot size requirements for single-
Family residential Subdivision;
      (3)   At least 40% of the site shall be kept in its natural state or
utilized for recreation or agricultural purposes;
      (4)   In areas where public sewer and water are not available, adequate
soil area shall be shown on the preliminary plat for two individual septic
drainfields for each Dwelling Unit or plans and tests which provide adequate
space for one central septic drainfield and one reserve or back-up area;
      (5)   Complete plans and documents of the homeowners association are
submitted which explain:
         (a)   Ownership and membership requirements;
         (b)   Organization of the association;
         (c)   Time at which the developer turns the association over to the
homeowners;
         (d)   Approximate monthly or yearly association fee for homeowners;
and
         (e)   Specific listing of items owned in common, including such items
as roads, recreation facilities, parking, common open space grounds and
utilities.
      (6)   No Cluster Development Lot shall be less than 6,000 square feet in
area; and
      (7)   Whenever it does not contradict the provisions of this chapter as
it relates to an adopted transportation plan or the protection of opportunities
for reasonable development of surrounding land adjacent to a development
proposed in the application, Streets which are intended to be kept continuously
closed to public travel or are at all times posted as private Streets may be
retained as private Streets and so reflected upon the Final Plat made a part of
the permit; provided an agreement is entered into between the Owner of said
Streets and the City assuring that the construction, operation and maintenance
of said Streets will be accomplished in accordance with approved City
standards. (See §
157.110.)
   (E)   Final Plat. All applicants for residential, single-Family Cluster
Developments shall be required to file with the appropriate governmental
recording agency, a plat of said clustered development complying with all of
the requirements of
Chapter 156, except to the extent that the Planning Commission may have given
specific permission to the effect that specific portions of
Chapter 156 may be waived. Such required plats shall be filed within 120 days
after the date of the action giving final approval.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.103 SHOPPING CENTERS.
   (A)   Shopping Centers may be permitted in residential and general Business
districts following the issuance of a Planned Unit Development Conditional Use
permit.
   (B)   Shopping Centers which contain two or less retail stores on five acres
or less may follow the Planned Unit Development procedures of this chapter
called General Development Plan for Small Areas, set forth in §
157.024(G).
   (C)   Shopping Centers which contain three or more retail stores and/or
include more than five acres in the total development plan, shall follow the
Planned Unit Development procedure of this chapter called General Development
Plan for Large or Complex Areas set forth in §
157.024(F).
   (D)   The total development plan of any Shopping Center shall include at
least two acres, although there is no minimum Lot size for individual
Businesses located within a Shopping Center.
   (E)   The developers of any Shopping Center shall demonstrate that they are
financially able to carry out the project and that they will begin construction
within 18 months after action on the proposal, and will substantially complete
the project within five years; if said construction has not begun within 18
months, or if the project is not 50% completed within five years, any further
development of any type shall require a Conditional Use permit and the Planning
Commission may move to initiate a rezoning back to that in effect prior to
Commercial zoning.
   (F)   Shopping Centers shall be located adjacent to an arterial or Collector
Street as shown on the City Comprehensive Plan.
   (G)   All Uses proposed in this section shall comply with the dimensional
criteria established for the general and retail Commercial districts in §
157.041.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.104 DRAINAGE.
   The provisions and standards for water drainage are as set forth in §§
150.35 through
150.46 of this code, Stormwater Management.
§ 157.105 LAND RECLAMATION AND LAND GRADING.
   (A)   Within this chapter, Land Reclamation is the reclaiming of land by
depositing or moving material so as to alter the grade. Land Reclamation shall
be permitted only by Conditional Use permit in all districts Depositing a total
of more than 50 cubic yards of material per Lot either by hauling in or re-
grading the area shall constitute Land Reclamation. Land Reclamation in
floodplains shall be in accordance with
Chapter 152. The permit shall include as a condition thereof a finished grade
plan which will not adversely affect the adjacent land and as conditions
thereof shall regulate the type of material permitted, program for rodent
control, plan for fire control and general maintenance of the site, controls of
vehicular ingress and egress, drainage and control of material disbursed from
wind or hauling of material to or from the site.
   (B)   No Person, partnership or association, private or public corporation,
county, municipality or other political Subdivision shall appropriate or use
any public water, surface or underground, without first securing a use of
public waters permit and written permission of the Commissioner of the Division
of Waters, Soils and Minerals of the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources.
For purposes of these regulations, public waters shall be as defined in Minn.
Stat. Chapter 105, as it may be amended from time to time, and as follows.
      (1)   Public waters shall include all lakes, ponds, swamps, streams,
drainageways, floodplains, floodways, natural water courses, underground water
resources and similar features involving directly or indirectly the use of
water within the City.
      (2)   No public water area shall be filled, partially filled, dredged,
altered by grading, Mining or otherwise utilized or disturbed in any manner
without first securing a public waters use permit from the Minnesota Department
of Natural Resources and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and a grading permit
from the City Zoning Administrator. Such grading permits shall be reviewed and
approved by the Department of Natural Resources, the City Engineer, the
Watershed District, the Planning Commission and the City Council.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.106 SOIL CONSERVATION PLANS.
   (A)   On any development or Land Reclamation project with more than one acre
of soil, drainage patterns or vegetation cover that would be either destroyed
or disturbed by the construction process, the City Zoning Administrator may
require the Owner or contractor on said project to request the Soil
Conservation District to prepare a soil conservation plan to protect the soil
from erosion or sheet run-off for the duration of the construction project and/
or over the long term occupancy of the site.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator may require a soil conservation plan on
projects which disturb less than one acre of soil, drainage patterns or
vegetation cover if, in the judgment of the Zoning Administrator, significant
soil erosion, vegetation destruction or drainage damage may occur during the
construction process.
   (C)   A soil conservation plan shall consist of specific written
recommendations on how to protect the soil, vegetation and drainage patterns
during the construction process. The Zoning Administrator may require
construction fencing along the edges of the construction area.
   (D)   Where construction of a Structure is proposed on slopes of 13% to 18%,
the Zoning Administrator may require the applicant to provide a grading and
erosion control plan and may require a Certificate of Compliance.
   (E)   Where construction of a Structure is proposed on slopes of 18% to 25%,
the Zoning Administrator shall require the applicant to provide a grading and
erosion control plan and a Certificate of Compliance prior to issuance of a
Building permit.
   (F)   The City Council may require the applicant to post a bond to ensure
the orderly completion of the grading and erosion control plan by a specific
date.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.107 MINING.
   All Mining and related Uses of land, including but not limited to the
excavation, removal or Storage of sand, gravel, rock, clay and other natural
deposits, are subject to the adopted standards, codes, chapters and regulations
of the Planning Commission and/or City Council related to such activities and
all regulations in this code.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.108 AGRICULTURAL OPERATIONS.
   (A)   General. All agricultural operations in existence upon the effective
date of this chapter shall be a permitted Use. However, all regulations
contained herein and other City chapters in effect shall apply to all changes
of the agricultural operation which will cause all or part of the area to
become more intensively Used or more urban in character. Setback and other
regulations shall apply to agricultural operations just as they do to urban
developments. Any Agricultural Buildings exceeding $1,000 in value erected on a
farm shall require a Certificate of Compliance and shall meet the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Rural agricultural operations.
      (1)   Rural agricultural operations may occur on parcels of ten or more
contiguous acres in agricultural districts. Rural agricultural operations may
include the production of farm crops, such as vegetables, fruit trees, grain
and other crops and their Storage on the area, as well as for the raising
thereon of farm poultry, domestic pets and domestic farm animals.
      (2)   Rural agricultural operations may include necessary Accessory Uses
for treating, storing or producing retail farm market products; provided
however, that the operation of any such Accessory Uses shall be secondary to
that of the primary agricultural activity.
      (3)   Rural agricultural operations may not include Commercial livestock
pen feeding (feedlots) without first receiving a Conditional Use permit from
the City Council and a Minnesota Pollution Control Agency feedlot permit.
      (4)   Commercial feeding operations shall not include the feeding of
garbage to swine or other animals.
   (C)   Suburban agricultural operations.
      (1)   Suburban agricultural operations may occur on parcels of less than
ten contiguous acres in Agricultural or R-1 Districts. Suburban agricultural
operations may include the production of crops such as fruit trees, shrubs,
plants and flowers, vegetables and domestic pets, provided such produce is
intended for the use of the residents on the property or sale away from the
property, or for temporary seasonal produce sales which require no Roadside
Stand.
      (2)   Suburban agricultural operations may include domestic farm animals,
provided:
         (a)   The Parcel is at least a Nominal Five Acres in area with at
least two acres of grazable acreage per animal;
         (b)   An adequate animal shelter Structure can be constructed; and
         (c)   A Minnesota Pollution Control Agency permit can be obtained by
the Owner/applicant.
      (3)   Suburban agricultural operations shall not include the raising of
domestic farm animals (on parcels of less than five acres), Roadside Stands for
Sale of products, processing or packaging operations or similar Uses.
   (D)   Farm operations not in agricultural district. The City Council may
require any farm operation not located in an agricultural district to secure a
Conditional Use permit to continue said operations in the event of the
following:
      (1)   A nuisance on a farm is adjacent to or within 100 feet of any
property line and may be detrimental to living conditions by emitting noise,
odor, vibrations, hazards to safety and the like; and/or
      (2)   The farm operations are so intensive as to constitute an industrial
type Use consisting of the compounding, processing and packaging of products
for wholesale or retail trade and further, that such operations may tend to
become a permanent industrial type operation that cannot be terminated as can a
normal farming operation. Excessive trucking operations shall be considered as
intensive Use.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.109 ACCESS DRIVES AND ACCESS.
   (A)   Access drives may not be placed closer than five feet to any Side or
Rear Lot line. No access drive shall be closer than three feet to any single-
or two-Family residence, no closer than five feet to any Multiple-Family
Building or Commercial Building. The number and types of access drives onto
major Streets may be controlled and limited in the interests of public safety
and efficient traffic flow. If the parcel with the access drive abuts a public
road, the access must be onto the public road.
   (B)   Access drives onto county roads shall require an access permit from
the County Engineer. This permit shall be acquired prior to the issuance of any
Building permits. The County Engineer shall determine the appropriate location,
size and design of such access drives and may limit the number of access drives
in the interest of public safety and efficient traffic flow. The County
Engineer may refer the request for an access drive permit onto a county road to
the Planning Commission for their comment.
   (C)   Access drives to Principal Structures which traverse wooded steep or
open field areas shall be constructed and maintained to a width and base
material depth sufficient to support access by emergency Vehicles. The City
Engineer or Building Official shall review all access drives (driveways) for
compliance with accepted City access drive standards.
   (D)   Driveway/accessway standards.
 
   Single-Family Detached
   Commercial/Multiple-Family
   Minimum width
   10 feet driveway base, vegetation cleared to 8 feet on each side of driveway
centerline
   10 feet driveway base or as approved by the City Engineer
   Pavement strength
   Capable of supporting emergency fire or other heavy Vehicles
   Slopes
   10 feet vertical rise in 100 horizontal feet
   8 feet vertical rise in 100 horizontal feet
 
   (E)   All Lots or parcels shall have direct adequate physical access for
emergency Vehicles along the Frontage of the Lot or parcel from either an
existing dedicated public roadway, or an existing private roadway approved by
the City Council.
   (F)   In addition to the required direct physical access along the Frontage
of the Lot or parcel to the approved public or private roadway, a Lot or parcel
may have private easement access drives to the Lot over adjacent Lots or
parcels.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.110 PRIVATE ROADS.
   (A)   Private roads may be utilized in Planned Unit Developments and Cluster
Developments, provided:
      (1)   Ownership and maintenance of said roads shall be the responsibility
of the homeowners association;
      (2)   Said road design shall meet or exceed the City standards for public
roads including travel by emergency Vehicles;
      (3)   Said road right-of-way shall be platted as an outlot in the Final
Plat, and shall meet or exceed the right-of-way requirements for an equivalent
public road in the City;
      (4)   The homeowners association shall establish a formal, written
procedure for petitioning City takeover of said road. The association shall
provide written evidence that at least 90% of the voting members of the
association approved the transfer of road responsibilities to the City;
      (5)   The City and the homeowners association shall establish an
assessment procedure for all abutting, benefitting land in case public
dedication and/or upgrading of the previously existing private road is
officially petitioned for by the homeowners association; and
      (6)    An easement is granted to the City by the association which allows
the City to use the road and road right-of-way for any reasonable public
purpose including but not limited to travel by emergency Vehicles and
installation of public utilities and conveniences.
   (B)   Private roads shall not connect two or more existing or proposed
public roads or road rights-of-way.
   (C)   Private roadway systems within Cluster Developments or Planned Unit
Developments shall provide access to the public, City road system only, and
shall not connect with private roads of other developments without the formal
written approval of each homeowners association and the City Council.
   (D)   Before final approval is given for a private road by the City Council,
the homeowners association shall grant the City an option to acquire the full
right-of-way otherwise required by this chapter and
Chapter 156 for public road purposes along the entire length of such private
road, at such time as the City Council in its sole discretion, determines that
it is in the public interest to acquire the road without any cost to the City.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.111 TENNIS COURTS.
   In all districts, the following standards shall apply.
   (A)   A Certificate of Compliance shall be required for all private tennis
courts on residential Lots.
   (B)   A Conditional Use permit shall be required for all public, semi-public
and Commercial tennis courts.
   (C)   An application for a Certificate of Compliance or a Conditional Use
permit shall include a site plan showing: the size, shape and pavement and sub-
pavement materials, the location of the court, the location of the house,
Garage, fencing, septic systems and any other structural improvements on the
Lot, the location of Structures on all adjacent Lots, a grading plan showing
all revised drainage patterns and finished elevations at the four corners of
the court, Landscaping and turf protection around the court, location of
existing and proposed wiring and lighting facilities.
   (D)   Tennis courts shall not be located closer than ten feet to any Side or
Rear Lot line. Tennis courts shall not be located within any required Front
Yard.
   (E)   Tennis courts shall not be located over underground utility lines of
any type, nor shall any court be located within any private or public utility,
walkway, drainage or other easement.
   (F)   Solid tennis court practice walls shall not exceed ten feet in height.
A Building permit shall be required for said walls. Said walls shall be Setback
a minimum of 30 feet from any Lot Line.
   (G)   Chain link fencing surrounding the tennis court may extend up to 12
feet in height above the tennis court surface elevation.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.112 VEGETATIVE CUTTING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   CLEAR CUTTING. Removal of all live vegetation in excess of six inches in
diameter at breast height on any area of 20,000 square feet or more in size.
   SELECTIVE CUTTING. The removal of single scattered live trees or shrubs in
excess of six inches in diameter at breast height.
   (B)   Clear cutting of vegetation. Clear cutting of vegetation shall not be
permitted within any required Yard of any Lot or parcel within any zoning Use
district.
   (C)   Clear cutting for Commercial tree production. Clear cutting for
Commercial tree production purposes shall require a Conditional Use permit in
CFP, A-1 and A-2 and Industrial Districts. (See §
157.043.)
   (D)   Selective tree cutting. Selective tree cutting may occur on any Lot
provided any cutting on slopes of greater than 18% shall require a Soil
Conservation District re-vegetation plan and a Certificate of Compliance prior
to issuance of a Building permit.
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.113 Home Occupations.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to define and regulate Home
Occupations so that such occupations are not likely to cause nuisance or hazard
to the neighborhood. This ordinance is not intended to limit or discourage Home
Occupations except as they are likely to infringe upon the rights of others.
   (B)   Permitted Uses. All types of Home Occupations are allowed except those
not permitted by existing ordinances of the City of Lake St. Croix Beach in
residential zones. Some examples of occupations not permitted in Residential
Districts by the City of Lake St. Croix Beach Zoning Ordinance are: animal
Commercial training, carwash, Automobile Repair, boarders (mort than two),
cafes or Restaurants, Drive-In Businesses, fuels sales, Garage Storage,
Commercial Kennels, Manufacturing used auto parts Vehicle sales, retail on-site
sales and wholesale Business.
   (C)   Prohibited Activities. The following restriction shall apply to all
Home Occupations within the City of Lake St. Croix Beach whether they be
granted by Conditional Use Permit or Certificate Compliance.
      (1)   Home Occupation shall be carried only by members of the Family
residing in the Dwelling Unit.
      (2)   There shall be no Exterior Storage of equipment or material used in
the Home Occupation.
      (3)   There shall be nonvisual evidence of the Home Occupation outside of
the principal or accessory Structure.
      (4)   Objectionable noise, vibration, smoke, dust, electrical
disturbances, heat, glare, or hazardous or toxic material shall not be
produced, stored, or kept upon the premises. Any waste disposed of in the sewer
system shall not create or cause a greater volume than that which is normally
generated by a Single- Family residential Dwelling.
      (5)   There shall be no on-site advertising allowed.
      (6)   The Home Occupation shall not cause internal or external
alterations of substance to the Dwelling Unit nor shall it involve construction
features not customarily found in Single- Family residential Dwellings.
   (D)   Parking. No Home Occupation shall be permitted which generates more
than two cars on Street parking. Off-Street Parking Spaces must be in a Garage,
Garage apron, or driveway. There shall be no more than four off-Street Parking
Spaces.
   (E)   Certificate of Compliance – Conditional Use Permit. The fee Owner of
the residential Dwelling in which a Home Occupation is proposed to be conducted
shall be required to hold a Certificate of Compliance is before engaging in any
such occupation or before allowing such occupation to take place upon the
premises. Certificate of Compliance may be obtained by making application to
the Zoning Administrator pursuant to the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance. In
the event an accessory Building is proposed to be Used in conjunction with a
proposed Home Occupation, a Conditional Use Permit shall be required rather
than a Certificate of Compliance. Application for Conditional Use Permit shall
be with the Zoning Administrator pursuant to the terms of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (F)   Enforcement, Suspension/ Revocation, Abandonment, and/or
Discontinuation of Home Occupation. The Zoning Administrator and/or City
Council may from time to time request of any applicant and/or any Person
conducting a Home Occupation verification that the Home Occupation is being
conducted in a manner consistent with this ordinance. The City Council may
suspend or revoke any Conditional Use Permit or Certificate of Compliance of
violation of any provision or condition of this ordinances. Suspension and/or
revocation of the Certificate of Compliance or Conditional Use Permit for Home
Occupation shall be preceded by written notice to the applicant/fee Owner
providing an opportunity to be heard before the City Council at a special or
regular meeting thereof. The notice shall be given at least 8 days in advance
of the time and the place of hearing which shall be specified therein and shall
also state the nature of the violations alleged. The City Council may, without
any advance notice, temporarily suspend any Conditional Use Permit or
Certificate of Compliance pending hearing on revocation or suspension for a
period not exceeding 30 days.
§ 157.114 SEXUAL OFFENDER RESIDENCE LOCATION AND RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Definitions.
   DESIGNATED OFFENDER. Any Person who has been convicted, adjudicated, or
committed for a designated sexual offense, as defined herein, or who is
required to register as a predatory offender pursuant to Minn. Stat. 243.166
(2016 or as amended) in which the victim of the offense was less than sixteen
(16) years of age at the time of the offense or for which the offender has been
categorized as a “Level III sex offender” under Minnesota Statutes.
   DESIGNATED SEXUAL OFFENSE. A conviction, adjudication of delinquency, or
commitment under Minnesota statutes chapter 253B involving any of the following
offenses: Minnesota statutes sections: 609.342; 609.343; 609.344; 609.345;
609.352; 609.365; 617.23; 617.246; 617.247; 617.293; successor statutes; or a
similar offense from another state.
   RESIDENCE (OR RESIDE). A place where a Person abides, dwells, inhabits, or
stays for more than fourteen (14) days in the aggregate during 12-month period
or a place where the Person routinely abides, dwells, inhabits, or stays for
four (4) or more consecutive or nonconsecutive days in any month. Residence
does not require the Person to have an ownership interest in, or a formal
rental or lease agreement for, the residence. A Commercial lodging
establishment, Boarding House or shelter, and group home may be deemed a
Person’s residence under this Section.
   (B)   Location of Residence.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any designated offender to establish residence
or otherwise reside within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of any of
the following Uses (hereinafter referred as “protected zones”):
         (a)   School for pre-K through Grade 12, public or private;
         (b)   Public park, beach, or playground;
         (c)   A public place of worship that is maintained and controlled by a
religious organization/body and at which regular educational programs are
provided (e.g. Sunday School);
         (d)   Licensed child care center or licensed in-home daycare
providers.
      (2)   For purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the
requirement shall be measured by following a horizontal line from any property
line of the Lot or parcel on which the subject residence is located to the
nearest property line of subject Use of a prohibited zone identified above.
      (3)   The City Clerk-Administrator shall maintain an Official Map showing
approximate locations in which a designated offender is prohibited to reside,
as defined by this Section. The City Clerk- Administrator shall update the map
at least annually to reflect any changes in the location of prohibited zones.
The actual measurement of minimum distance separation between the residence and
the Use within the prohibited zone shall govern.
   (C)   Exceptions. A designated offender residing within a prohibited zone as
described in Section 2(a) is not in violation of this Section if any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The designated offender established the residence and reported and
registered the residence pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Sections 243.166,
243.167, or successor statute, prior to the effective date of this Section.
      (2)   The designated offender is under the age of 18 and resides with a
parent or legal guardian.
      (3)   The school, park, playground, place of worship, or licensed child
care facility, within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of the designated
offender's residence commenced operation after the designated offender
established residence and reported/ registered the residence pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes governing sex offender registration requirements.
      (4)   The designated offender owned and resided at the residence at the
time of committing the designated sexual offense and retains ownership of the
residence at all times relevant to application of this Section.
   (D)   Renting Real Property in Violations of this Section.
      (1)   It is unlawful to let or rent any place, Building, trailer, or
other Structure, or part thereof, with the knowledge that it will be Used as a
residence by any Person prohibited from establishing such residence pursuant to
this Section, if such place, Structure, or part thereof, trailer or other
conveyance, is located within a prohibited zone described in this Section.
      (2)   A property Owner’s failure to comply with provisions of this
Section shall constitute a violation of this Section.
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations. The violation of any provision of this chapter or the
violation of the conditions or provisions of any permit issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, the violator shall
be punished in accordance with Minnesota Statute 609.02 Subd. 3 as it may be
amended from time to time; and the cost of prosecution may be added pursuant to
Minn. Stat. §631.48
   (B)   Penalties. Unless otherwise provided, each act of violation and every
day on which such violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate offense.
   (C)   Application to City personnel. The failure of any officer or employee
of the City to perform any official duty imposed by this chapter shall not
subject the officer or employee to a penalty imposed for violation unless a
penalty is specifically provided for such failure.
   (D)   Equitable release. In the event of a violation or the threatened
violation of any provision of this chapter, or any provision or condition of a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter, the City in addition to other remedies,
may institute appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct
or abate such violation or threatened violation.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting to Minnesota Gas Company for a period of 25
---      - -         years, a nonexclusive franchise to sell gas energy in the
                     municipality
                   (1990 Code, §§ 1701.010 - 1701.090)
                     Granting to Northern States Power Company for a period of
--       - -         20 years, a franchise for operation of an electric
                     distribution system and electric transmission lines for
                     furnishing electric energy in the municipality
                   (1990 Code, §§ 1702.010 - 1702.130)
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to 1990 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section                   Code Section
14.57 through 14.69            110.03, 113.087
15.73, subd. 3                 90.003
16.861                         157.003
Chapter 40                     155.03
84.415                         153.06
84.872                         71.05
Chapter 103B                   150.35
Chapter 103D                   150.35
Chapter 103F                   152.01
Chapter 103G                   152.26
103G.005, subd. 14             152.40
103G.005, subd. 15             52.02, 150.38
103G.127                       153.06
103G.201                       52.02
Chapter 103I                   52.02
103I.001 et seq.               51.02
104.25                         153.03, 153.04
Chapter 105                    157.105
115.01, subd. 22               150.38
115.03                         52.02
115.03 subd. 5c                150.35
115.55                         52.01 - 52.03
115.55, subd. 1, paragraph (o) 52.02
115.55, subd. 6                52.08
115A.93 subd.3(c)              50.17
115A.941(a)                    50.16
115A.941(b)                    50.20
116.06, subd. 31               52.02
144.391                        111.01
144.411 et seq.                113.001
Chapter 145A                   52.04, 52.08, 52.25
152.01, subd. 4                71.06
157.16, subd. 1                52.02
Chapter 168                    70.01, 71.40
Chapter 169                    70.01, 71.40
169.01, subd. 4(c)             71.25
169.87, subd. 1                70.02
169.999                        10.98
Chapter 171                    71.40
Chapter 201                    30.01
216B.02, subds. 4 and 6        90.003
216C.06, subd. 15              153.08
Chapter 216D                   90.020, 114.06
216D.01 through 216D.09        90.045
216D.01 through 216D.09        90.067
216D.04, subd. 3               90.003
222.37                         114.09
237.16                         90.001, 90.066
237.162                        90.001, 90.003, 90.047, 90.066
237.162, subd. 4               90.003
237.163                        90.001, 90.003, 90.047, 90.066
237.163, subd. 2(b)            90.002
237.79                         90.001, 90.066
237.81                         90.001, 90.066
Chapter 238                    90.003, 114.01
238.086                        90.001
238.086                        90.066
260B.101 et seq.               130.99
260C.101 et seq.               130.99
Chapter 308A                   90.003
Chapter 324                    150.15
326B.101 through 326B.194      150.01
326B.121                       150.01
326B.133                       150.01
326B.148                       150.01
Chapter 327                    52.02
Chapter 340A                   113.015, 113.024, 113.080
340A.101                       113.001
340A.101 et seq.               113.046
340A.308                       113.045
340A.404, subd. 5              113.017
340A.411                       113.017
340A.504                       113.001
347.50                         92.01, 92.13
Chapter 349                    112.04, 112.05, 112.23
349.12, subd. 7a               112.20
349.12, subd. 25               112.01
349.16                         112.20
349.213                        112.06
360.55, subd. 6                91.03
412.141                        31.16
412.151, subd. 1               31.15
412.191, subd. 4               112.07
412.572                        31.01
412.581                        31.01
Chapter 429                    94.29
429.081                        150.46
429.101                        94.29
Chapter 453                    90.003
Chapter 453A                   90.003
Chapter 462                    150.35, 152.01
462.359                        157.003
462.359                        157.021
471.62                         93.20
Chapter 505                    156.001
626.862                        10.20
631.48                         71.99
                               
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rules Part Code Section
Minn. Rules Part            Code Section
709.0080, subp. 4           150.38
Chapter 1300                150.01
Chapter 1301                150.01
Chapter 1302                150.01
Chapter 1303                150.01
Chapter 1305                150.01
1306.0010                   150.01
Chapter 1307                150.01
Chapter 1309                150.01
Chapter 1311                150.01
Chapter 1315                150.01
1315.0200                   52.15
Chapter 1325                150.01
Chapter 1330                150.01
Chapter 1335                150.01
1335.0600 to 1335.1200      150.01
Chapter 1341                150.01
Chapter 1346                150.01
Chapter 1350                150.01
Chapter 1360                150.01
Chapter 1361                150.01
Chapter 1370                150.01
Chapter 4715                52.02, 52.14, 150.01
Chapter 4720                52.02
4720.5330                   52.02
Chapter 4725                52.14
4725.0100, subpart 21       52.04, 52.16
4725.4450                   52.23
6105.0300 through 6105.0440 153.05
6120.2500 to 6120.3900      150.35
Chapter 7045                52.02
7050.0130, subp. F          150.38
7077.0105, subp. 41(b)      150.38
Chapter 7080                52.14
7080.0130                   52.13
7080.1910 to 7080.2020      52.13
7080.2010                   52.13, 52.18
7080.2010, subp. (3)        52.13
7080.2050                   52.14
7080.2150                   52.09, 52.16, 52.17, 52.19
7080.2150 ,Table IX         52.16, 52.17
7080.2350                   52.19, 52.20, 52.21
7080.2350, Table XII        52.16
Chapter 7082                52.01 - 52.03, 52.08
Chapter 7083                52.02, 52.03, 52.09, 52.24
7083.0700 to 7083.2040      52.03
7083.0790                   52.22
7083.4000 to 7083.4120      52.24
7083.4030                   52.16, 52.20
7083.4030, Table III        52.14
7083.4070                   52.16
7083.4080                   52.16
7819.1000, subp. 3          90.037
7819.0050 through 7819.9950 90.001
7819.1100                   90.003, 90.042, 90.047
7819.1250                   90.070
7819.1300                   90.048
7819.3000                   90.042
7819.3100                   90.066
7819.3200                   90.069
7819.4000                   90.065
7819.4100                   90.065
7819.5000                   90.047
8400.0100 through 8400.2900 155.31
8400.4000 through 8400.4075 155.09
8400.4055                   155.29
Chapter 8410                150.35
Chapter 8420                150.35
                            
 
REFERENCES TO 1990 CODE
1990 Code Section Code Section
1990 Code Section   Code Section
103.010             10.05
103.020             10.05
103.030             10.05
201.010             30.01
201.020             30.01
202.010             30.02
203.010             32.01
203.020             32.02
203.030             32.03
203.040             32.04
203.050             32.05
204.010             32.20
204.020             32.21
204.030             32.22
204.040             32.23
204.050             32.23
204.060             32.24
204.070             32.25
205.010             32.40
205.020             32.41
205.030             32.42
205.040             32.43
205.050             32.44
205.060             32.45
205.070             32.46
205.080             32.46
205.090             32.48
205.100             32.49
206.010             31.01
206.020             31.02
206.030             31.02
206.040             31.03
207.010             31.15
207.020             31.16
207.030             31.17
207.040             31.18
403.010             155.01
403.020             155.02
403.030             155.03
403.040             155.04
403.050             155.05
403.060             155.06
403.070             155.07
403.080             155.20
403.090             155.21
403.100             155.22
403.110             155.23
403.120             155.24
403.130             155.25
403.140             155.26
403.150             155.27
403.160             155.99
403.170             155.28
403.180A            155.29
403.180B            155.99
403.190             155.30
403.200             155.31
403.210             155.45
403.220             155.46
403.230             155.47
403.240             155.48
403.250             155.49
403.260             155.99
403.270             155.50
403.280             155.51
403.290             155.52
403.320             155.08
403.403             155.09
Ch. 404, Table A    154.02
404.010             154.01
404.020             154.02
404.030             154.03
404.040             154.04
404.050             154.05
501.01              150.01
501.02              150.01
501.03              150.01
501.04              150.01
502.010             150.15
502.020             150.16
502.030             150.17
502.040             150.18
502.050             150.19
502.060             150.20
503.010             150.04
505.010             150.02
505.020             150.02
505.030             150.02
505.040             150.02
505.045             150.02
508.010             151.01
508.020             151.02
508.030             151.03
508.040             151.04
508.050             151.05
508.060             151.06
508.070             151.07
508.080             151.08
509.010             51.01
509.020             51.02
509.030             51.03
509.040             51.04
509.050             51.05
601.01              90.001
601.02              90.002
601.03              90.003
601.04              90.004
601.05              90.005
601.05              90.020
601.06              90.021
601.07              90.022
601.08, subd. 1     90.035
601.08, subd. 2     90.036
601.08, subd. 3     90.037
601.08, subd. 4     90.038
601.09              90.039
601.10              90.040
601.11              90.041
601.12              90.042
601.13              90.043
601.14              90.044
601.15              90.045
601.16              90.046
601.17              90.047
601.18              90.048
601.19              90.049
601.20              90.050
601.21              90.051
601.22              90.065
601.23              90.066
601.24              90.067
601.25              90.068
601.26              90.069
601.27              90.070
601.28              90.071
901.010             91.01
901.020             91.01
901.030             91.01
901.040             91.01
901.050             91.01
902.010             91.02
902.020             91.02
902.030             91.02
1001.010            71.01
1001.020            71.02
1001.050            71.05
1001.060            71.06
1001.070            71.07
1001.080            71.08
1001.090            71.05
1001.100            71.09
1001.110            71.10
1002.010            70.01
1002.020            70.02
1003.010            71.25
1003.020            71.25
1003.030            71.26
1003.040            71.27
1004.010            72.01
1004.015            72.02
1004.020            72.03
1004.030            72.04
1004.040            72.05
1004.050            72.06
1004.060            72.07
1005.010            70.03
1006.010            71.40
1006.020            71.41
1006.030            71.99
1101.010            111.01
1101.020            111.02
1101.030            111.20
1101.030, subd. 1   111.21
1101.030, subd. 2   111.22
1101.030, subd. 3   111.23
1101.030, subd. 4   111.24
1101.030, subd. 5   111.25
1101.030, subd. 6   111.26
1101.030, subd. 7   111.27
1101.030, subd. 8   111.28
1101.040            111.29
1101.050            111.30
1101.060            111.45
1101.070            111.46
1101.080            111.47
1101.090            111.03
1101.100            111.04
1101.110            111.05
1101.120            111.99
1101.130            111.06
1101.150            111.07
1101.160            111.08
1102.010            110.01
1102.020            110.02
1102.030            110.03
1102.040            110.04
1102.050            110.05
1102.060            110.06
1103.010            112.01
1103.020            112.02
1103.030            112.03
1103.040            112.04
1103.050            112.05
1103.060            112.06
1103.070            112.06
1103.080            112.20
1103.090            112.21
1103.100            112.21
1103.110            112.22
1103.120            112.23
1103.130            112.24
1103.140            112.25
1103.150            112.26
1103.160            112.27
1103.170            112.99
1103.190            112.07
1201.010            113.015
1201.020            113.016
1201.030            113.017
1201.040            113.018
1201.050            113.019
1201.060            113.020
1201.070            113.020
1201.080            113.021
1201.090            113.022
1201.100            113.023
1201.110            113.024
1202.010            113.035
1202.020            113.036
1202.030            113.037
1202.050            113.038
1202.060            113.039
1202.070            113.040
1202.080            113.041
1202.090            113.042
1202.100            113.043
1202.110            113.044
1202.120            113.045
1202.130            113.046
1202.140            113.047
1202.150A           113.060
1202.150B           113.061
1202.150C           113.062
1202.150D           113.063
1202.150E           113.064
1202.150F           113.065
1202.160            113.048
1202.170            113.999
1203.010            113.001
1203.020            113.001
1203.040            113.001
1203.050            113.001
1204.010            113.080
1204.020            113.081
1204.030            113.082
1204.040            113.083
1204.050            113.084
1204.060            113.085
1204.070            113.085
1204.080            113.086
1204.090            113.087
1401.010            92.01
1401.020            92.02
1401.03             92.03
1401.040            92.04
1401.050            92.05
1401.070            92.06
1401.080            92.07
1401.090            92.08
1401.100            92.09
1401.120            92.11
1401.130            92.12
1401.140            92.13
1401.150            92.14
1401.160            92.15
1401.170            92.16
1401.180            92.17
1401.190            92.16
1401.200            92.18
1401.220            92.99
1501.010            91.03
1501.020            91.03
1502.010            94.25
1502.020            94.25
1502.030            94.26
1502.040            94.27
1502.050            94.28
1502.060            94.29
1502.070            94.30
1502.080            94.31
1502.090            94.32
1503.010            93.01
1503.020            93.02
1503.030            93.03
1503.040            93.04
1503.050            93.05
1503.060            93.06
1503.070            93.07
1504.010            130.01
1505.01             94.01
1505.02             94.02
1505.03             94.03
1505.04             94.03
1505.05             94.03
1505.06             94.03
1505.07             94.04
1505.08             94.05
1505.09             94.06
1505.10             94.07
1505.11             94.08
1505.12             94.09
1505.13             94.03
1505.15             94.99
1505.16             94.10
1506.010            95.01
1506.020            95.02
1506.030            95.03
1506.040            95.04
1601.010            130.02
1601.015            130.02
1601.020            130.02
1701.010 - 1701.090 T.S.O. I
1702.010 - 1702.130 T.S.O. I
1703.010            114.01
1703.020            114.02
1703.030            114.03
1703.040            114.04
1703.050            114.05
1703.060            114.06
1703.070            114.07
1703.080            114.08
1703.090            114.09
1703.100            114.10
1801.010            130.03
1801.020            130.03
1801.030            130.03
1801.040            130.99
1802.010            93.20
1802.020            93.21
1803.010            93.35
1803.020            93.36
1803.040            93.37
1803.050            93.38
1803.060            93.39
1804.010            33.01
1805.010            130.15
1805.020            130.16
1805.030            130.17
1805.040            130.18
1805.050            130.18
1805.060            130.19
1805.070            130.20
1805.080            130.21
1805.100            130.22
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
–         - -         152.01 - 152.13, 152.25 - 152.28, 152.40 - 152.45,
                        152.99
–         - -         153.01 - 153.10
–         - -         156.001 - 156.020, 156.035 - 156.049, 156.060 -
                        156.067, 156.080 - 156.087, 156.999
                        157.001 - 157.006, 157.020 - 157.029, 157.040 -
–         - -         157.047, 157.049, 157.050, 157.065 - 157.093, 157.095 -
                        157.103, 157.105 - 157.112, 157.999
97-135      - -         157.069
–         11-15-1993  94.01 - 94.10
95-1401-129 11-11-1995  92.02 - 92.09, 92.11 - 92.18, 92.99
95-301-130  1-18-1996   157.070
131         2-6-1996    114.01 - 114.10
132         8-26-1996   130.02
133         10-28-1996  92.01 - 92.09, 92.11 - 92.18, 92.99
98-137      5-18-1998   95.01 - 95.04
137         6-4-1998    95.01 - 95.04
140         5-24-2000   110.01 - 110.06
142         7-17-2000   157.091
149         4-19-2004   90.001 - 90.005, 90.020 - 90.022, 90.035 - 90.051,
                        90.065 - 90.071
2009-158    11-7-2009   31.15 - 31.18
2010-161    3-15-2010   93.21
2010-162    5-17-2010   52.01 - 52.25, Ch. 52 Appendix A, Ch. 52 Appendix B
2013-164A   3-17-2014   10.99
2014-165    1-13-2014   31.02, 31.03
2014-166    8-18-2014   112.01 - 112.07, 112.20 - 112.27, 112.99
2014-167    12-15-2014  157.043
2015-171    - -2015     157.105
507         4-18-2016   150.35 - 150.46
2017-2      7-17-2017   50.10, 50.02, 50.15 - 50.23
2018-002    4-16-2018   72.08
2018-003    9-17-2018   92.01, 92.10
901-010     10-19-2019  91.01
2021-01     7-19-2021   157.114
2021-02     7-19-2021   92.30 - 92.34
2021-03     9-20-2021   157.003, 157.067
2022-01     3-21-2022   150.02
2023-03     3-20-2023   114.01 - 114.09
2023-04     6-28-2023   157.003
2023-05     6-28-2023   50.01, 50.22
2023-06     8-21-2023   93.02
                       
 
