LAKE CRYSTAL, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2023-06, passed - -2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 308
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF LAKE CRYSTAL,
MINNESOTA, AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING
CERTAIN ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE
OF ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS Minnesota Statutes §§ 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to cause
its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book,
   NOW THEREFORE the City Council of the City of Lake Crystal, Minnesota,
ordains:
SECTION 1. The general ordinances of the city as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are hereby adopted and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Lake Crystal." This Code of
Ordinances also adopts by reference certain statutes and administrative rules
of the State of Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
SECTION 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following titles:
   I.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   III.   ADMINISTRATION
   V.   PUBLIC WORKS
   VII.   TRAFFIC CODE
   IX.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
   XI.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   XIII.   GENERAL OFFENSES
   XV.   LAND USES
SECTION 3. All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code
of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in part
in the Code of Ordinances; provided, this repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of Ordinances.
All fees established in prior ordinances codified in this Code shall remain in
effect unless amended in this code or until an ordinance adopting a fee
schedule is adopted or amended.
SECTION 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a sufficient
publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously published in the
city's official newspaper. The Clerk of the city shall cause a substantial
quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general distribution to
the public at actual cost and shall furnish a copy of the Code of Ordinances to
the County Law Library or its designated depository. The official copy of this
Code of Ordinances shall marked and be kept in the office of the City Clerk.
SECTION 5. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided by Section
6, as such Code shall be presumptive evidence in courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
SECTION 6. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for
the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of
the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
Passed and adopted this 20th day of March, 2017.
_____________________________
Brad Ahrenstorff, Mayor
                 
ATTEST:
_____________________________
Taylor Gronau, City Administrator
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
 
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
   
Appendix A: Notice of code violation
Charter reference:
   The City Charter, adopted August 27, 1912 and subsequently amended, is
available at the City Clerk's office.
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Lake Crystal Code”, for which designation “city code”, “code of ordinances”,
“codified ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and
section headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the
code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense; however, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of Lake Crystal, Minnesota, and the area within the
corporate boundaries of the city as presently established or as amended by
ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a future time. The term CITY
when used in this code may also be used to refer to the City Council and its
authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Blue Earth County.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Administrator for public inspection. The Clerk shall provide a copy for sale
for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code,
all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes adopted by
reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this code
was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code,
all future supplements are hereby adopted as if they had been in existence at
the time this code was enacted, unless there is clear intention expressed in
the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Administrator shall have the authority to administer and enforce
this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the code or by the Clerk or City Council shall have the
authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and any
person or persons designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Administrator and any city official or employee designated by
this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may with
the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident
of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Administrator, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the duty
of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Administrator or any other authorized city officer or
employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection
of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all
permits, licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given
to the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property,
stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner, resident or
other person in control of the property shall be given an opportunity to appear
before the City Administrator to object to the termination before it occurs,
subject to appeal of the Administrator’s decision to the City Council at a
regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create by resolution, adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
The resolution may be in a form established by the City Council. Such
resolution may not proscribe administrative penalties for traffic offenses
designated by M.S. § 169.999, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Administrator or other
person giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code, in a
written notice of an alleged violation, sent by first class mail to the person
who is alleged to have violated the code, the person giving notice may request
the payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation directly to
the City Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of the violation. A sample
notice is contained in Appendix A to this chapter. In the sole discretion of
the person giving the notice of the alleged violation, the time for payment may
be extended an additional 14 days, whether or not requested by the person to
whom the notice has been given. In addition to the administrative penalty, the
person giving notice may request in the notice to the alleged violator to adopt
a compliance plan to correct the situation resulting in the alleged violation
and may provide that if the alleged violator corrects the situation resulting
in the alleged violation within the time specified in the notice, that the
payment of the administrative penalty will be waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including state statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including state statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time to time, in
either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of
prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of
this code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation.
APPENDIX A: NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
To: (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From: (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re: Alleged violation of Section of the City Code, relating to (give title of
section)
Date: (Date of notice)
   I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated §                 
of the City Code relating to
___________________________________________________________________________________.
   The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in
the amount of $ _______ for this violation.
   Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay
it the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
   Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due
date, you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
   As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by
                        (establish date), then the payment of the
administrative penalty will be waived.
   Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or
abate the violation.
   Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the
Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to
renew the request for payment. Because the payment of the administrative
penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the
Council.
   If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash or money
order to the City Treasurer.
Signed:                                                               
   (Name and Title of Person Giving Notice)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   RESERVED
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Licensing and permit fees
   
30.02   Business hours of City Hall
   
30.03   Regular municipal elections
   
30.04   Municipal primary elections
   
30.05   City Administrator
   
30.06   Salaries of Mayor and Council members
§ 30.01 LICENSING AND PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   License and permit fees. The city ordinances of the city shall be
amended to set annual licensing and permit fees for various activities which
occur and are regulated by the city as follows:
      (1)   Annual licensing fees for the following activities shall be as set
by the City Council from time to time:
         (a)   Off-sale liquor license;
         (b)   On-sale liquor license;
         (c)   On-sale 3.2% malt liquor;
         (d)   Off-sale 3.2% malt liquor;
         (e)   Temporary on sale 3.2% malt liquor;
         (f)   Club on-sale liquor license;
         (g)   Sunday on-sale liquor license;
         (h)   Initial liquor license investigation fee;
         (i)   Cigarette and tobacco sales license;
         (j)   Soft drink license;
         (k)   Dog or cat license; and
         (l)   Duplicate license fee.
      (2)   Annual permit fees for the following activities shall be as set by
the City Council from time to time:
         (a)   Variance request; and
         (b)   Special use request.
   (B)   Licensing fees; amendment. The licensing fees and permit fees may be
changed from time to time by the City Council by resolution with the licensing
and permit fees being adjusted or amended at least 30 days before any adjusted
license or permit fee taking effect.
(Ord. 249, passed 1-18-2006)
§ 30.02 BUSINESS HOURS OF CITY HALL.
   (A)   Hours. The business hours for the city offices, located in City Hall
shall be as follows: 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday of each week
of the year; including the city offices remaining open through the noon lunch
period.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The city offices, located in City Hall, shall be closed on approved
holidays which fall on Monday through Friday of each week. Approved holidays:
New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King’s birthday, Washington and Lincoln’s
Birthady, Memorial Day, July 4th, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Day,
Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day.
      (2)   The business hours of the city offices, located in City Hall, may
be altered by the City Administrator due to employee illness, vacation or
attendance at approved conferences or meetings. The business hours of the city
offices would only be altered in the absence of two or more employees.
      (3)   The business hours of the city offices, located in City Hall, may
be altered by the City Administrator due to inclement weather or in emergency
situations.
      (4)   The City Administrator shall cause the posting of business hour
changes or closings of the city offices whenever possible.
(Ord. 192, passed 5-6-1991)
§ 30.03 REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Regular municipal elections in the city shall be held at a
location as set by resolution.
      (2)   Municipal elections shall be on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in November in every even-numbered year as set forth in M.S. § 205.07,
Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   The polls for regular municipal elections shall be open, as set by
resolution.
(Ord. 92, passed 9-18-1961)
§ 30.04 MUNICIPAL PRIMARY ELECTIONS.
   (A)   When the occasion arises that proper nomination petitions have been
filed for a number of candidates for municipal office to be voted upon in a
regular municipal election equal to a number in excess of two for the office of
Mayor, or is more than twice the number of individuals to be elected to City
Council at the general election, then a municipal primary election shall be
held for such offices, or offices, on the second Tuesday in August of any year
in which a municipal general election is to be held, pursuant to M.S. §
205.065, Subd. 1.
   (B)   Notice of the municipal primary election shall be given by the City
Administrator by publication in the Lake Crystal Tribune on the Wednesday prior
to the primary election day, and the Administrator shall cause ballots to be
prepared for the primary election.
   (C)   The hours for voting, the judges and clerks, and the other regulations
for the primary election shall be the same as for regular municipal elections
so far as possible.
   (D)   The Council shall meet and canvass the primary election returns
immediately after the ballots have been counted and the returns completed and
certified by the election judges and clerks of the election, and the Council
shall make a full declaration of the results as soon as possible. The Council
shall declare that the two candidates receiving the largest number of votes in
the primary election for each of the respective offices to be voted upon in the
regular election are nominated, but this declaration shall not relate to the
offices which are not a part of the primary election.
(Ord. 93, passed 9-18-1961)
§ 30.05 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   It is hereby ordained that the position of City Clerk as defined in the City
Charter shall hereafter be referred to as City Administrator. In addition to
those duties and responsibilities detailed in the City Charter for the City
Clerk, now referred to as City Administrator, the City Administrator shall be
tasked with the duties and responsibilities as determined by the City Council
via a formal job description which may be amended by the Council from time to
time.
(Ord. 187, passed 8-6-1990)
§ 30.06 SALARIES OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   Pursuant to authorization of state statutes, the salary of the Mayor of the
city is hereby established at an amount as set by City Council from time to
time and the salary of each Council member is hereby established at at amount
as set by the City Council from time to time. The salary shall be paid for
participation in the normal and regular duties of the Mayor and Council
members, including attendance at regularly scheduled and special City Council
meetings.
(Ord. 253, passed 5-1-2006)
 
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Guidelines for Appointment and Service on Boards and Commissions
   
31.001   Eligibility requirements
   
31.002   Ineligible persons
   
31.003   Forfeiture of Board or Commission position
   
31.004   Excused absence
Park and Recreation Commission
   
31.015   Establishment
   
31.016   Officers
   
31.017   Duties of the Commission
Economic Development Authority
   
31.030   Establishment of the Authority
   
31.031   Authority Board
   
31.032   Authority Commissioners
   
31.033   Commissioner terms
   
31.034   Meetings
   
31.035   Commissioner pay
   
31.036   Organization, seal
   
31.037   Officers
   
31.038   Counsel
   
31.039   Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer
   
31.040   Finances
   
31.041   Depositories; default; collateral
   
31.042   Conflict of interest
   
31.043   Taxes, assessments, and obligations
   
31.044   Budget, annual report, audit
Cemetery Advisory Committee
   
31.055   Establishment
   
31.056   Members
   
31.057   Meetings
   
31.058   Duties
   
31.059   Operation
   
31.060   Committee pay
Planning Commission
   
31.070   Establishment
   
31.071   Definitions
   
31.072   Composition
   
31.073   Organization and meetings
   
31.074   Adoption of program of work
   
31.075   Preparation of a City Plan
   
31.076   Procedure for adoption of City Plan
   
31.077   Means of executing plan
   
31.078   Zoning plan
   
31.079   Official map of street extensions
   
31.080   Plats
   
31.081   Procedure for changes
   
31.082   List of recommended public works
   
31.083   Compensation
Police Department
   
31.095   Police Department continued
   
31.096   Chief of the Police Department
   
31.097   Duties of Police
   
31.098   Uniform and badge
   
31.099   Reserve officers
Volunteer Fire Department
   
31.110   Volunteer Fire Department; appointment of officers
   
31.111   Duties of Chief
   
31.112   Records
   
31.113   Practice drills
   
31.114   Assistant Chief
   
31.115   Firefighters
   
31.116   Compensation
   
31.117   Interference with Volunteer Fire Department
   
31.118   Policies and procedures
   
31.119   Fees for emergency protection fire services
Volunteer Ambulance Service
   
31.220   Ambulance service continued; appointment of officers
   
31.221   Ambulance Director
   
31.222   Ambulance service members
GUIDELINES FOR APPOINTMENT AND SERVICE ON BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 31.001 ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person wishing to serve on a city board or commission must meet the
following eligibility requirements:
   (A)   Age 18 or older on the date of appointment to the board or commission;
   (B)   Be a citizen of the United States; and
   (C)   Be a resident of the city for at least 20 days prior to the
appointment.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-26-2013)
§ 31.002 INELIGIBLE PERSONS.
   The following persons are ineligible to serve on a city board or commission:
   (A)   Any person convicted of treason;
   (B)   Any person convicted of a felony whose civil rights have not been
restored;
   (C)   Any person under a guardianship; and
   (D)   Any person who is found by a court of law to be legally incompetent.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-26-2013)
§ 31.003 FORFEITURE OF BOARD OR COMMISSION POSITION.
   Persons appointed to a board or commission shall forfeit the position for
the following reasons:
   (A)   If, during the time of appointment to a board or commission, any
member fails to maintain eligibility pursuant to the above requirements, they
shall immediately resign from the board or commission. If no resignation is
received, the City Council shall declare the position vacant and appoint a
replacement; or
   (B)   If a board member or commission member cannot attend regular monthly
meetings, an excused absence must be obtained. If more than three unexcused
absences occur in a 12-month period, the board member or commission member
position shall be deemed vacant and the City Council shall appoint a
replacement.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-26-2013)
§ 31.004 EXCUSED ABSENCE.
   EXCUSED ABSENCE shall be defined as notifying city administrative offices of
not being able to attend an upcoming board or commission meeting(s). Excused
absence shall include absences related to an illness of the board member or
commission member or immediate family. Excused absence shall also include a
board member or commission member being absent due to service in a branch of
the military forces of the United States.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-26-2013)
PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 31.015 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   A Park and Recreation Commission is hereby established, consisting of
five members, who shall be appointed by the City Council, and may be removed by
a four-fifths vote of the Council.
   (B)   The members of the Commission shall be appointed for terms of two
years. Two of the members of the first Commission shall be appointed for one-
year terms and three members for two-year terms. Thereafter, appointments shall
be the two-year terms. The terms of two members shall expire on December 31 of
even-numbered years. The terms of the remaining three members shall expire on
December 31 of odd-numbered years.
   (C)   All members shall be residents of the city and at least 21 years of
age.
(Ord. 112, passed - -1966)
§ 31.016 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall call the first meeting of the Commission for a
convenient date and time in the month of January, and the Commission shall
select from its membership a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and Secretary. The
Commission shall keep a public record of the deliberations and actions of the
Commission.
   (B)   The Chairperson shall preside at meetings, have a vote thereon, and
exercise the functions usually devolving upon the presiding officer of similar
bodies.
(Ord. 112, passed - -1966)
§ 31.017 DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Commission shall have charge of the care and maintenance and
control of all the city parks and recreation facilities in the city. The
Commission shall recommend to the Council the hiring of all necessary
employees, their compensation and the construction of all improvements of the
facilities under the control of the Commission.
   (B)   The Commission is empowered to accept and receive all donations and
contributions for the purposes of the Commission. The Commission shall have no
power to levy or impose taxes or assessments.
   (C)   The Commission shall, in addition to the powers and duties herein
enumerated, exercise other and necessary powers which may expedite the
management and control of the city parks and recreation facilities.
   (D)   The Commission shall not have the power to construct buildings.
(Ord. 112, passed - -1966)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 31.030 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There shall be a Lake Crystal Economic Development Authority, which
shall have the powers and duties given economic development authorities under
M.S. §§ 469.090 through 469.108, as they may be amended from time to time. The
term “Authority” in §§
31.030 to
31.044 shall mean the Lake Crystal Economic Development Authority.
   (B)   The Authority shall carry out economic and industrial development and
redevelopment within the city in accordance with the policies adopted by the
City Council.
§ 31.031 AUTHORITY BOARD.
The Authority shall be governed by a board of seven commissioners.
§ 31.032 AUTHORITY COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   At least two of the Commissioners of the Authority shall be members of
the City Council.
   (B)   When a member of the City Council who is also serving as a
commissioner of the Authority ceases to be a member of the City Council, he or
she shall also cease to be a Commissioner of the Authority.
§ 31.033 COMMISSIONER TERMS.
   (A)   The Commissioners of the Authority shall serve four year terms
   (B)   The terms of Commissioners shall end on December 31.
   (C)   The terms of Commissioners shall expire as follows:
      (1)   Two terms shall expire in the even-numbered year in which the
President of the United States is elected.
      (2)   One term shall expire in the odd-numbered year after the year in
which the President of the United States is elected.
      (3)   Two terms shall expire in the even-numbered year in which the
Governor of Minnesota is elected.
      (4)   Two terms shall expire in the odd-numbered year after the year in
which the Governor of Minnesota is elected.
§ 31.034 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commissioners of the Authority shall meet at least monthly.
   (B)   At their first meeting in each year, the Commissioners shall set a
schedule for their regular meetings for the year.
§ 31.035 COMMISSIONER PAY.
   Each Commissioner of the Authority shall receive a salary, in an amount as
set by the City Council from time to time, for each meeting the Commissioner
attends.
§ 31.036 ORGANIZATION, SEAL.
   (A)   The Commissioners of the Authority shall adopt bylaws to govern its
administration. The bylaws will take effect only upon ratification by the City
Council, which may amend or rescind them at any time.
   (B)   The Commissioners shall adopt an official seal for the Authority.
§ 31.037 OFFICERS.
   The Commissioners of the Authority shall annually elect officers as follows.
   (A)   The Commissioners shall elect a president, a vice-president, a
treasurer, a secretary, and an assistant treasurer.
   (B)   A Commissioner shall not serve as president and vice-president at the
same time. The other offices may be held by the same Commissioner.
   (C)   The offices of secretary and assistant treasurer need not be held by a
Commissioner.
§ 31.038 COUNSEL.
The City Attorney is the chief legal advisor of the Authority.
§ 31.039 TREASURER, ASSISTANT TREASURER.
   (A)   Treasurer. The treasurer of the Authority:
      (1)   Shall receive and is responsible for authority money;
      (2)   Is responsible for the acts of the assistant treasurer;
      (3)   Shall disburse authority money by check only;
      (4)   Shall keep an account of the source of all receipts, and the
nature, purpose, and authority of all disbursements; and
      (5)   Shall file the authority’s detailed financial statement with its
secretary at least once a year at the times set by the authority.
   (B)   Assistant treasurer. The assistant treasurer has the powers and duties
of the treasurer if the treasurer is absent or disabled.
   (C)   Treasurer’s bond. The treasurer shall give bond to the state
conditioned for the faithful discharge of official duties. The bond must be
approved as to form and surety by the authority and filed with the secretary.
The bond must be for twice the amount of money likely to be on hand at any one
time. The amount of the bond shall be as determined at least annually by the
authority. The amount of the bond must not exceed $300,000.
§ 31.040 FINANCES.
   (A)   Checks. Checks issued by the Authority must be signed by the treasurer
and one other officer named by the authority in a resolution. The check must
state the name of the payee and the nature of the claim that the check is
issued for.
   (B)   Financial Statements. The Authority’s detailed financial statement
must show all receipts and disbursements, their nature, the money on hand, the
purposes to which the money on hand is to be applied, the authority’s credits
and assets, and its outstanding liabilities in a form required for the city’s
financial statements. The Authority shall examine the statement together with
the treasurer’s vouchers. If the Authority finds that the statement and
vouchers are correct, it shall approve them by resolution and enter the
resolution in its records.
§ 31.041 DEPOSITORIES; DEFAULT; COLLATERAL.
   (A)   Depositories. At least every two years an authority shall name banks
within the state as depositories. Before acting as a depository, a named bank
shall give the authority a bond approved as to form and surety by the
authority. The bond must be conditioned for the safekeeping and prompt
repayment of deposits. The amount of bond must be at least equal to the maximum
sums expected to be deposited at any one time.
   (B)   One bank account. An authority may deposit all its money from any
source in one bank account.
   (C)   Collateral. When authority funds are deposited by the treasurer in a
bonded depository, the treasurer and the surety on the treasurer's official
bond are exempt from liability for the loss of the deposits because of the
failure, bankruptcy, or other act or default of the depository. However, an
authority may accept assignments of collateral from its depository to secure
deposits just as assignments of collateral are permitted by law to secure
deposits of the authority's city.
§ 31.042 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Disclosure. Before taking an action or making a decision which could
substantially affect the commissioner's or an employee's financial interests or
those of an organization with which the commissioner or an employee is
associated, a commissioner or employee of an authority shall:
      (1)   Prepare a written statement describing the matter requiring action
or decision and the nature of the potential conflict of interest; and
      (2)   Submit the statement to the Commissioners of the Authority.
   (B)   Minutes. The disclosure shall be entered upon the minutes of the
Authority at its next meeting.
   (C)   Time for Disclosure. The disclosure statement must be submitted no
later than one week after the employee or commissioner becomes aware of the
potential conflict of interest.
   (D)   When Not Required. No disclosure statement is required if the effect
on the Commissioner or employee of the decision or act will be no greater than
on other members of the business, profession, or occupation or if the effect on
the organization with which the commissioner or employee is affiliated is
indirect, remote, and insubstantial.
   (E)   Potential Conflicts. A potential conflict of interest is present if
the Commissioner or employee knows or has reason to know that the organization
with which the commissioner or employee is affiliated is, or is reasonably
likely to become, a participant in a project or development which will be
affected by the action or decision.
   (F)   Employee’s Conflict. If an employee has a potential conflict of
interest, the employee’s superior shall immediately assign the matter to
another employee who does not have a potential conflict of interest.
   (G)   Commissioner’s Conflict. A Commissioner who has a potential conflict
of interest shall not attempt to influence an employee in any matter related to
the action or decision in question, shall not take part in the action or
decision, and shall not be counted toward a quorum during the portion of any
meeting of the Authority in which the action or decision is to be considered.
   (H)   Agent or Attorney. For one year after termination of a position as a
commissioner or employee of an Authority, no former commissioner or former
employee of an authority shall appear personally before any court or
governmental department or agency as agent or attorney for anyone other than
the authority in connection with any proceeding, application, request for
ruling or other determination, contract, claim, controversy, charge,
accusation, arrest, or other particular matter in which the authority is
substantially interested, and with respect to which the commissioner or
employee took any action or made any decision as a commissioner or employee of
the authority at any time within a period of one year prior to the termination
of that position.
   (I)   Limitations. With respect to each program established by the authority
to provide financial assistance or financing for real property other than
rental assistance programs, an employee or commissioner may not receive such
financial assistance or financing more than once.
   (J)   Exceptions. The exceptions in M.S. § 471.88 apply to this section.
   (K)   Criminal Penalty. Violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor.
§ 31.043 TAXES, ASSESSMENTS, AND OBLIGATIONS.
   The Authority shall not:
   (A)   Levy a tax or special assessment,
   (B)   Pledge the credit of the state, the city, or other subdivision of the
state, nor
   (C)   Incur an obligation enforceable on property not owned by the
authority.
§ 31.044 BUDGET, ANNUAL REPORT, AUDIT
   (A)   Budget Submitted to City Council. The Authority shall annually send
its budget to the City Council. The budget must include a detailed written
estimate of the amount of money that the Authority expects to need from the
city to do Authority business during the next fiscal year. The needed amount is
what is needed in excess of any expected receipts from other sources.
   (B)   Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the Authority is the same as the
fiscal year of the city.
   (C)   Annual Report. The Authority shall make a written report to the City
Council giving a detailed account of its activities and of its receipts and
expenditures during the preceding calendar year, together with additional
matters and recommendations it deems advisable for the economic development of
the city.
   (D)   Audit. The financial statements of the authority must be prepared,
audited, filed, and published or posted in the manner required for the
financial statements of the city. The financial statements must permit
comparison and reconciliation with the city’s accounts and financial reports.
The report must be filed with the state auditor by June 30 of each year. The
Auditor shall review the report and may accept it or, in the public interest,
audit the books of the Authority.
CEMETERY ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 31.055 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   A Cemetery Advisory Committee is hereby established consisting of
three members who shall be appointed by the City Council and maybe removed by a
four-fifths vote of the City Council.
   (B)   The terms of the members shall be staggered so that the term of one
member shall expire on December 31 of each year.
(Ord. 216, passed 1-4-1999)
§ 31.056 MEMBERS.
   The Cemetery Advisory Committee shall select from their members a
Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and Secretary. The Chairperson shall preside at
all meetings of the Cemetery Advisory Committee. The Vice Chairperson shall
preside at meetings in the absence of the Chairperson. The Secretary shall
maintain minutes of the committee meetings and draft written recommendations
the Cemetery Advisory Committee votes to pass on to the City Council. Business
of the Cemetery Advisory Committee shall be conducted by a quorum of no less
than two Committee members, with simple majority vote of members present to
decide all issues.
(Ord. 216, passed 1-4-1999)
§ 31.057 MEETINGS.
   The Cemetery Advisory Committee shall conduct meetings annually with a
regular meeting night to be established by the Cemetery Advisory Committee
members. Additional special meetings may be called by the Chairperson or at the
request of any two members of the Cemetery Advisory Committee.
(Ord. 216, passed 1-4-1999)
§ 31.058 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Cemetery Advisory Committee is established to act as an advisory
body to the City Council on the operation, use and maintenance of the Lake
Crystal Cemetery.
   (B)   The Cemetery Advisory Committee shall review and recommend to the City
Council a yearly budget for the Lake Crystal Cemetery.
   (C)   The Cemetery Advisory Committee shall establish and maintain a five-
year capital improvement program for the Lake Crystal Cemetery.
(Ord. 216, passed 1-4-1999)
§ 31.059 OPERATION.
   (A)   The rules of operation of the Lake Crystal Cemetery shall be set by
city ordinances.
   (B)   The Lake Crystal Cemetery shall be self-supporting to the extent
possible. No general funds of the city shall be used for operation of the Lake
Crystal Cemetery, except by special resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 216, passed 1-4-1999)
§ 31.060 COMMITTEE PAY.
   All Cemetery Advisory Committee members shall serve without remuneration.
(Ord. 216, passed 1-4-1999)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.070 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A City Planning Commission for the city is hereby established.
(Ord. 279, passed 10-12-2010)
§ 31.071 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LAKE CRYSTAL. Referred to as “Council”.
   CITY OF LAKE CRYSTAL. Referred to as “city”.
   PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF LAKE CRYSTAL. Referred to as
“Commission”.
(Ord. 279, passed 10-12-2010)
§ 31.072 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members, who shall be
appointed by the City Council and maybe be removed by a four-fifths vote of the
Council.
   (B)   (1)   The terms of the members shall end on December 31.
      (2)   The terms of the members shall be staggered.
      (3)   One term shall end in the even-numbered year in which the President
of the United States is elected; three terms shall end in the odd-numbered year
following the year in which the President of the United States is elected; one
term shall end in the even-numbered year in which the Governor of Minnesota is
elected; two terms shall end in the odd-numbered year following the year in
which the Governor of Minnesota is elected.
(Ord. 279, passed 10-12-2010)
§ 31.073 ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson and Secretary from among its
members for terms of one year; and the Commission may create and fill other
offices as it may determine necessary.
   (B)   The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting each month.
   (C)   The Commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and
shall keep a record of its motions, resolutions, transactions and findings
which record shall be a public record.
   (D)   Expenditures of the Commission shall be within the amounts
appropriated for the purpose by the City Council.
(Ord. 279, passed 10-12-2010)
§ 31.074 ADOPTION OF PROGRAM OF WORK.
   Upon the appointment and organization of the Commission, it shall proceed
with the preparation and adoption of a program of work, outlining activities
proposed to be undertaken and may revise its program of work from time to time.
(Ord. 279, passed 10-12-2010)
§ 31.075 PREPARATION OF A CITY PLAN.
   It shall be the function and duty of the Planning Commission to prepare and
adopt a comprehensive City Plan for the physical development of the city,
including proposed public buildings, street arrangements and improvements,
public utility services, parks, play grounds and other similar developments,
the use of property, the density of population and other matters relating to
the physical development of the city. The City Plan may be prepared in
sections. The City Plan shall be approved by the Council before implementation.
(Ord. 279, passed 10-12-2010)
§ 31.076 PROCEDURE FOR ADOPTION OF CITY PLAN.
   (A)   Prior to adopting the City Plan of any section of it or any
substantial amendment thereof, the Commission shall hold at least one public
hearing thereon after ten days published notice of the time and place of the
hearing. The adoption of the City Plan or of any section or amendment thereof
shall be by resolution of the Commission approved by the affirmative vote of
not less than four-sevenths of its total membership. The Commission may from
time to time amend or add to the City Plan or section thereof.
   (B)   An attest copy of the City Plan or of any section, amendment or
addition to the City Plan adopted by the Planning Commission shall be certified
to the City Council. The Council shall approve any amendment or addition to the
City Plan before implementation.
(Ord. 279, passed 10-12-2010)
§ 31.077 MEANS OF EXECUTING PLAN.
   Upon adoption of the City Plan or any section thereof, it shall be the duty
of the Planning Commission to recommend to the City Council reasonable and
practicable means for putting it into effect. These means shall consist of a
Zoning Plan, the control of subdivision plats, a plan of future streets,
coordination of the normal public improvements of the city, a long-term program
of Capital Expenditures and other matters as will accomplish the purpose of
this section.
(Ord. 279, passed 10-12-2010)
§ 31.078 ZONING PLAN.
   The Planning Commission may upon its own motion, and upon instructions by
the City Council shall, prepare a proposed Zoning Plan for the city. Before
recommending the Zoning Plan to the City Council, the Planning Commission shall
hold at least one public hearing thereon after a notice of similar to that
require by §
31.076.
(Ord. 279, passed 10-12-2010)
§ 31.079 OFFICIAL MAP OF STREET EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission, with the assistance of the City Engineer,
may, an upon instruction by the City Council shall, prepare an official map of
the platted and unplatted portions of the city and adjoining territory, or
portions thereof, indicating upon the map the proposed future extension or
widening of streets and alleys.
   (B)   After the map has been prepared and a hearing on it has been held as
provided in §
31.078, and been adopted by the Commission, it shall be submitted to the
Council, which shall thereupon consider the map and may adopt it or any part of
it with the amendments as it deems advisable. Before the adoption by the
Council, a public hearing shall be held upon the proposal after ten days
published notice. Whenever any existing street, highway or alley widened or
improved, or any new street is opened, or lands for other public purposes are
acquired by action of the city, and after the map has been adopted by the
Council and filed with the Register of Deeds, it shall not be required in the
proceedings to pay for any building or structure placed after the filing of the
map and without a permit or in violation of conditions of a permit, within the
limits of a mapped street, or outside of any building line that may have been
established upon the existing street, or within any area thus reserved for
public purposes.
(Ord. 279, passed 10-12-2010)
§ 31.080 PLATS.
   (A)   Every proposed plat of land within the city and within two miles of
the limits of the city and not within a town which itself requires the approval
of plats, shall be submitted to the City Council before being filed, and no
plat of land shall be filed, unless and until the same shall first have been
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Any person who violates this provision, or who sells land, or offers
land for sale, or contracts for the sale of land by reference to or by other
use of any plat, before the plat has been approved by the Planning Commission
and the City Council in accordance with the provisions of this section, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days.
Before acting on the plat, the City Council shall submit the same to the
Planning Commission for its recommendation.
   (C)   After any such plat has been referred to the Planning Commission by
the City Council, the Planning Commission shall act on the same and shall make
its recommendations with respect thereto, and failure to so act for a period of
40 days after the reference shall be deemed to be approval of the plat.
(Ord. 279, passed 10-12-2010)
§ 31.081 PROCEDURE FOR CHANGES.
   No City Council ordinance or resolution establishing or changing the Zoning
Plan, future street and public lands plan, or regulations governing the
platting of land shall be adopted until the proposal has been referred to the
Planning Commission for report thereon and an attested copy of the report has
been filed with the Council. Failure of the Planning Commission to report
within 40 days or a longer period as may be designated by the Council after the
reference shall be deemed to be approval of the proposed change.
(Ord. 279, passed 10-12-2010)
§ 31.082 LIST OF RECOMMENDED PUBLIC WORKS.
   The Planning Commission shall annually list and classify all proposed public
works and shall prepare a coordinated program of prepared public works for the
ensuing fiscal year. The program shall be recommended by the Commission to the
Council and to other commissions, officers, departments, boards or public
bodies as have jurisdiction over the recommending, planning or construction of
the public works. A copy of the recommended program of public works shall be
included in the annual report of the Planning Commission provided for in §
31.073.
(Ord. 279, passed 10-12-2010)
§ 31.083 COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Planning Commission shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 279, passed 10-12-2010)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.095 POLICE DEPARTMENT CONTINUED.
   (A)   If the city has a Police Department at the time this code is adopted,
then the Department of the city is hereby continued. If the city does not have
a Police Department at the time of the adoption of this code, then at any time
after the code is adopted, the City Council may by resolution create a Police
Department, which shall be organized and administered as provided for by this
code. The City Council may at any time determine by resolution to discontinue
the existence of a Police Department and provide for the enforcement of state
laws and city ordinances by other means. The head of the Police Department
shall be known as the Chief of the Police Department and the number of
additional members of the Police Department, together with their ranks and
titles, shall be determined by the City Council. The compensation to be paid to
members of the Police Department shall be fixed by the City Council. Members of
the Police Department shall be appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   All police officers shall meet the minimum standards for licensing as
a peace officer as established by the Minnesota Peace Officers Standards and
Training Board and have a current and valid peace officer license at the time
of appointment. All police officers shall retain this license during their
employment as a police officer with the city and will be subject to discharge
if the license is suspended, revoked or becomes invalid for any reason. In
addition, all police officers must have a valid Minnesota vehicle operator's
license and must be insurable as a vehicle driver by the city's automobile
insurance carrier.
§ 31.096 CHIEF OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Chief of the Police Department shall have supervision and control
of the Police Department and its members. The Chief of the Police Department
shall be responsible for the proper training and discipline of the members of
the Police Department. The Chief of the Police Department shall be responsible
for the keeping of adequate records and shall report to the City Council on the
needs of the Police department and its work. Every member of the Police
department is subordinate to the Chief of the Police Department and shall obey
the instructions of the Chief of the Police Department and any superior
officer. The City Council may designate one of the police officers as Acting
Chief, who shall have all the powers and duties of the Chief of the Police
Department during the absence or disability of the Chief of the Police
Department.
   (B)   The City Council may contract with the Blue Earth County Sheriff’s
office for provision of Chief of Police Services.
§ 31.097 DUTIES OF POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department are authorized to enforce the laws
applicable to the city, bring violators before the court, and make complaints
for offenses coming to their knowledge. Members of the Police Department are
authorized to serve processes on behalf of the city and shall serve those
notices as may be required by the City Council or other authority. When the
city is not a party to the proceedings involved in the process or notice, the
officer shall collect the same fees as provided by law. All fees shall be paid
into the city treasury.
§ 31.098 UNIFORM AND BADGE.
   Each member of the Police Department shall, while on duty, wear a suitable
badge and uniform, except that the Chief of the Police Department may authorize
the performance of specific duties while not in uniform. When a member
terminates membership in the Police Department, the member shall immediately
deliver to the city all property of the city.
§ 31.099 RESERVE OFFICERS.
   The Chief of the Police Department may appoint, for a specified time, as
many reserve officers as may be necessary. Reserve officers shall be
subordinate to the Chief of the Police Department . Under the provisions of
M.S. § 626.84, Subd. 1(e), as it may be amended from time to time, a RESERVE
OFFICER is an individual whose services are utilized by a law enforcement
agency to provide supplementary assistance at special events, traffic or crowd
control, and administrative or clerical assistance. A reserve officer's duties
shall not include enforcement of the general criminal laws of the state, and
the reserve officer does not have full powers of arrest or authorization to
carry a firearm on duty.
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.110 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT CONTINUED; APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   If, at the time of the adoption of this code, the city has a Volunteer
Fire Department, there is continued in this city a Volunteer Fire Department.
If the city, at the time of the adoption of this code, does not have a
Volunteer Fire Department, the City Council may by resolution create a
Volunteer Fire Department subject to the provisions of this code. All Volunteer
Fire Departments are established under the authority of state law, M.S. §
412.221, Subd. 17, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   All officers of the Volunteer Fire Department shall be appointed by
the City Council, upon recommendation form the Board of Review. These officers
may be removed by the City Council for cause and after a public hearing. If one
of the officers duly appointed shall resign his or her office, be removed from
office by the City Council, or is deceased during his or her term of office,
the successor shall be duly appointed by the City Council as soon as is
practical and no later than two weeks from the time the position becomes open,
upon recommendation form the Board of Review. The officer so appointed is so
appointed for any period of the unexpired term of the vacated office.
   (C)   Firefighters and probationary firefighters shall be appointed by the
City Council upon recommendation by the Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department.
The process of recruitment, selection, appointment and termination of
firefighters and probationary firefighters shall, as required by state law,
follow all of the provisions of the Veteran's Preference Act, M.S. §§ 43A.11
and 197.46, as they may be amended from time to time, and, as required by state
law, there shall be no discrimination on the basis of age, race, color, creed,
religion, national origin, sex, marital status, status with regard to public
assistance, sexual orientation or disability (except based on a bona fide
occupational qualification) as provided by the Minnesota Human Rights Act, M.S.
Ch. 363A, as it may be amended from time to time. Firefighters shall continue
as members of the Volunteer Fire Department during good behavior until
retirement, but may be removed by the City Council for cause after a public
hearing.
   (D)   As required by state law, M.S. § 412.241, as it may be amended from
time to time, the City Council shall have full authority over the financial
affairs of the Volunteer Fire Department, and shall provide for the collection
of all revenues and other assets, the auditing and settlement of accounts, and
the safekeeping and disbursement of public money. This division does not apply
to the funds of any Fire Relief Association.
§ 31.111 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The Chief shall have control of all fire fighting apparatus and shall be
responsible for its care and condition. The Chief shall make a report semi-
annually to the City Council at its meeting in March and in September as to the
condition of the equipment and needs of the Volunteer Fire Department. The
Chief may submit additional reports and recommendations at any meeting of the
City Council, and he or she shall report each suspension by him or her of a
member of the Volunteer Fire Department at the first meeting of the City
Council following the suspension. The Chief shall be responsible for the proper
training and discipline of the members of the Volunteer Fire Department, and
may suspend any member for refusal or neglect to obey orders pending final
action by the City Council on his or her discharge or retention.
§ 31.112 RECORDS.
   The Chief shall keep in convenient form a record of all fires. The record
shall include the time of the alarm, location of fire, cause of fire, if known,
type of building, name of owner or tenant, purpose for which occupied, value of
building and contents, members of the Volunteer Fire Department responding to
the alarm and other information as he or she may deem advisable or as may be
required from time to time by the City Council or state law or regulation.
§ 31.113 PRACTICE DRILLS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief, when the weather permits, to hold
practice drills for the Volunteer Fire Department and to give the firefighters
instruction in approved methods of fire fighting and fire prevention.
§ 31.114 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence or disability of the Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department,
the Assistant Chief shall perform all functions and exercise all of the
authority of the Chief.
§ 31.115 FIREFIGHTERS.
   Firefighters shall not be less than 18 years of age and able bodied. They
shall become members of the Volunteer Fire Department only after a six-month
probationary period. The City Council, upon recommendation of the Board of
Review, may require that each candidate, before he or she may become a
probationary firefighter, must possess certain minimum height, weight,
education, mental and physical health requirements, and any other
qualifications which may be specified by the City Council.
§ 31.116 COMPENSATION.
   The members and officers of the Volunteer Fire Department shall receive
compensation as provided by the City Council.
§ 31.117 INTERFERENCE WITH VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give or make, or cause to be given or
made, an alarm of fire without probable cause, or to neglect or refuse to obey
any reasonable order of the Chief or other firefighter at a fire, or to
interfere with the Volunteer Fire Department in the discharge of its duties.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.118 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The Volunteer Fire Department may adopt policies and procedures for the
operation of the department, which shall be effective upon approval by the City
Council. Any provision of these policies and procedures, which may be called a
Constitution and Bylaws, which is inconsistent with state and federal law,
including the Veterans Preference Act, Minnesota Human Rights Act, and state
laws requiring the City Council to control Fire Department Finances, shall be
unenforceable and void.
§ 31.119 FEES FOR EMERGENCY PROTECTION FIRE SERVICES.
   (A)   Purposes and intent. This section is adopted for the purpose of
authorizing the City of Lake Crystal to charge for fire service as authorized
by M.S. §§ 366.011, 366.012, and 415.01.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIRE SERVICE. Any deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment
to extinguish a fire or perform any preventative measure in an effort to
protect equipment, life, or property in an area threatened by fire. It also
includes the deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment to provide
fire suppression, rescue, extrication, and any other services related to fire
and rescue as may occasionally occur.
      FIRE SERVICE CHARGE. The charge imposed by the city for receiving fire
service.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed and originally
manufactured to operate primarily upon public roads and highways, and not
operated exclusively upon railroad tracks. It includes semi-trailers, but does
not include snowmobiles, manufactured homes, all-terrain vehicles, or park
trailers.
      FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACT. A contract between the city and a town or other
city for the city to provide fire service.
      MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and a town or other
city for the City's Fire Department to provide assistance to the fire
department of a town or other city.
   (C)   Parties affected.
      (1)   Owners of property within the city who receive fire service.
      (2)   Anyone who receives fire service as a result of a motor vehicle
accident or fire within the city.
   (D)   Rates. The rates for fire service shall be in an amount as set by the
City Council from time to time. Rates shall be reviewed annually at the last
regularly scheduled City Council meeting of the year.
   (E)   Billing and collection.
      (1)   Parties requesting and receiving fire services may be billed
directly by the city. Additionally, if the party receiving fire services did
not request services but a fire or other situation exists which, at the
discretion of the Fire Department personnel in charge, requires fire service,
the party will be charged and billed. All parties will be billed whether or not
the fire service is covered by insurance. Any billable amount of the fire
charge not covered by a party's insurance remains a debt of the party receiving
the fire service.
      (2)   Parties billed for fire service will have 30 days to pay. If the
fire service charge is not paid by that time, it will be considered delinquent
and the city will send a notice of delinquency.
      (3)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after this
notice of delinquency is sent, the city will use all practical and reasonable
legal means to collect the fire service charge. The party receiving fire
service shall be liable for all collection costs incurred by the city
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
      (4)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after the
notice of delinquency is sent, the City Council may also, on or before October
15 of each year, certify the unpaid fire service charge to the County Auditor
in which the recipient of the services owns real property, for collection with
property taxes. The County Auditor is responsible for remitting to the city all
charges collected on behalf of the city. The city must give the property owner
notice of its intent to certify the unpaid fire service charge by September 15.
   (F)   Mutual aid agreements. When the City Fire Department provides fire
service to another fire department pursuant to a mutual aid agreement, the
billing will be determined by the mutual aid agreement.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 8-6-2018)
VOLUNTEER AMBULANCE SERVICE
§ 31.220 AMBULANCE SERVICE CONTINUED; APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The ambulance service that was in place at the time that this
subchapter was enacted is continued. The City Council may at any time determine
by resolution to discontinue the existence of the ambulance service. The head
of the Ambulance Service shall be known as the Ambulance Director and shall be
appointed by the City Council. The Ambulance Director shall be an employee of
the city. The City Council may chose and appoint additional employees for the
ambulance service. The ambulance service shall also contain volunteers, the
number of volunteers shall be fixed by the City Council. Members of the
ambulance service shall be appointed by the City Council. The compensation to
be paid to members of the service shall be determined by the City Council.
   (B)   All members of the ambulance service shall meet minimum standards for
licensing as established by the State of Minnesota and/or Federal Government.
All members shall retain licenses during their service for the city.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 31.221 AMBULANCE DIRECTOR.
   The Ambulance Director shall have the supervision and control of the
ambulance service and its members. The Ambulance Director shall be responsible
for the proper training of the members of the members. The Director shall be a
department head and shall report to the City Administrator. The Ambulance
Director is responsible for the discipline of members after review by the City
Administrator. The Ambulance Director is responsible to the keeping and
maintaining of all records. The Ambulance Director shall be responsible for the
Department remaining HIPPA compliant. The Ambulance Director is responsible for
maintaining and distributing all records in accordance with Minnesota and
Federal law.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 31.222 AMBULANCE SERVICE MEMBERS.
   All members of the ambulance is subordinate to the Ambulance Service
Director and shall obey the instructions of the Ambulance Director. Members
shall also maintain high standards in the performance of their duties and shall
follow all policies of the Department, policies of the City of Lake Crystal,
Minnesota and Federal laws.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 5-15-2023)
CHAPTER 32: RESERVED
 
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Policy and purpose
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
33.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
33.05   Local emergencies
   
33.06   Emergency regulations
   
33.07   Emergency management a government function
   
33.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to insure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters.
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters.
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions.
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. Emergency
management includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 33.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the City Council for an indefinite term and may be removed by the
Council at any time. The Director shall serve with a salary as established by
the City Council and shall be paid his or her necessary expenses. The Director
shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration and
operation of the emergency preparedness organization, subject to the direction
and control of the Council. The emergency management organization shall conform
to and be consistent with, where applicable, all state and federal
requirements, including the National Incident Management System framework found
at 44 C.F.R. part 201, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 33.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the city on any regional or state
conference for emergency management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual
aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal
emergency management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the Council for its
action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the city's emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting
training programs as required to assure emergency operational capability in the
several services as provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 33.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City
Administrator.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Administrator. A copy
shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours.
Notice of the existence of these regulations and their availability for
inspection at the City Administrator's Office shall be conspicuously posted at
the front of the city hall or other headquarters of the city or at other places
in the affected area as the Council shall designate in the resolution. By
resolution, the Council may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.37, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he would otherwise
be entitled under this resolution or under the worker's compensation law, or
under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 33.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official
acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Discharge of Water into Sanitary Sewer System Prohibited
   
50.01   Unlawful discharges
   
50.02   Inspection, time to correct
   
50.03   Violation
   
50.04   Termination of services
   
50.05   Correction of deficiency
Collection of Delinquent Electric, Water, Sewer and Refuse Collection Bills
   
50.20   Definitions
   
50.21   Accounts
   
50.22   Billing
   
50.23   Utility rate schedule
   
50.24   Delinquent accounts
Water System Rules and Regulations
   
50.30   Water conservation
DISCHARGE OF WATER INTO SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM PROHIBITED
§ 50.01 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES.
   It is unlawful to discharge any roof water, ground water or natural
precipitation into the sanitary sewage system maintained by the city. The
direct or indirect input of the water above described is unlawful and shall
include placement of water into the sewage system via sump pump, drain tile
connection, discharge directly from eaves troughs, or any other fashion.
(Ord. 191, passed 10-1-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.02 INSPECTION, TIME TO CORRECT.
   The City Council may by separate action determine an appropriate method of
inspection and verification that any new or existing construction shall not be
in violation of this chapter to include ongoing inspections at such times and
upon reasonable notice to the landowner or occupant of a structure. Any
violation of this chapter shall result in a written warning and notice to
comply to the offending landowner or occupant as the case may be. The warning
may be achieved by personal service or by United States mail to the owner of
the subject real estate or to the occupant of the subject real estate or both.
The occupant shall have a reasonable time to correct the deficiency taking into
consideration the climactic conditions which exist at the time the violation is
discovered. Failure to comply with the order to correct the violation shall
result in an ongoing violation of this chapter for which no further warning
shall be required to be issued but a citation may be used by the Police
Department.
(Ord. 191, passed 10-1-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 VIOLATION.
   A violation of this subchapter shall be considered a petty misdemeanor, and
may be subject to a maximum fine that may be authorized by state statutes for a
petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 191, passed 10-1-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 TERMINATION OF SERVICES.
   (A)   In the event that the city through its agents shall issue a notice to
correct deficiency when a violation of this chapter is noted, the violator
shall have a period of 45 days from the date of notice of the deficiency by the
city to conduct any necessary changes or adjustments to correct the deficiency.
   (B)   In the event the correction is not accomplished within the 45-day
period, the city without any additional notice may take necessary steps to
terminate utility services including water, electricity, either or both to the
address deemed in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 191, passed 10-1-1990)
§ 50.05 CORRECTION OF DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   The city may correct any deficiency which is in violation of this
chapter and charge the offending party for the actual cost of the correction of
the deficiency.
   (B)   The actual cost, including reasonable charges for labor involved,
shall be added to the next regular water, sewer, garbage or utility billing
that the city issues to the address.
   (C)   In the event the occupant of the property is not the owner of the
property for real estate tax purposes, the unpaid amount of the cost of repair
or correction of the deficiency may be certified to the Director of Taxpayer
Services as an assessment for inclusion in the next year’s real estate taxes to
the extent that it remains unpaid.
(Ord. 191, passed 10-1-1990)
COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT ELECTRIC, WATER,
SEWER AND REFUSE COLLECTION BILLS
§ 50.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCOUNT. A record of the electric, water, sewer and refuse collection
services used by each property and the periodic costs for the same.
   CITY UTILITY SYSTEM. Facilities used for providing public utility service
owned or operated by city or an agency thereof (Lake Crystal Municipal
Utilities), including electricity, sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water
services.
   ELECTRIC SERVICE SYSTEM. Electric transmission, distribution and service
lines, fixtures, meters and all necessary equipment and appurtenances owned or
operated by Lake Crystal Municipal Utilities for the purpose of providing
electric services for public or private use.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person or persons listed on the property tax statement.
   UTILITY RATE SCHEDULE. A schedule of all utility rates and charges set by
resolution of the city and resolution of Lake Crystal Municipal Utilities.
   WATERWORKS SYSTEM. Water and sewer transmission pipes, lines, fixtures,
meters and all necessary equipment and appurtenances owned or operated by Lake
Crystal Municipal Utilities for the purpose of providing water and sewer
services for public or private use.
(Ord. 285, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 50.21 ACCOUNTS.
   All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner who personally, or by
his or her authorized agent, applied for the service. The owner shall be liable
for electric, water, sewer and refuse collection services supplied to the
property, whether he or she is occupying the property or not, and any unpaid
charges shall be a lien upon the property.
(Ord. 285, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 50.22 BILLING.
   Electric, water, sewer and refuse collection service charges shall be billed
on one bill as applicable to each account. All charges for electric, water,
sewer and refuse collection services shall be due upon receipt and considered
delinquent after the last day of the month in which the bills are sent. All
bills shall contain the title, address and telephone number of the official in
charge of billing; the title, address and phone number shall be clearly visible
and easily readable. Bills shall be mailed to the customers on or before the
sixteenth day of each month of each year and specify the electric and water
consumed and charges, the sewer charges and the refuse collection charges in
accordance with the current fee schedules set by resolution of the city and
Lake Crystal Municipal Utilities.
(Ord. 285, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 50.23 UTILITY RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The refuse collection charges shall be adopted annually by the city.
   (B)   The electric, water and sewer service charges shall be adopted
annually by Lake Crystal Municipal Utilities.
   (C)   The City Council shall be responsible for establishing the number of
special assessment certification cycles of delinquent billings per year. At
least one certification cycle will be timed each year to coincide with the
county’s requirements for certification to the following year’s taxes.
Additional certification cycles may be set in the annual rate schedule
resolution. Each year the City Council shall establish one or more
certification cut-off dates. All billing accounts, unless exempt for other
legal reason, which have been billed a delinquent bill and remain unpaid as of
the certification cut-off date shall have the balance on the account included
in a preliminary certification list.
(Ord. 285, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 50.24 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Penalties. A late payment penalty of 10% per annum shall be assessed
on all accounts with a past due balance.
   (B)   Shutoff for nonpayment. Electric and water shall not be shutoff until
notice and an opportunity for a hearing before the City Municipal Utilities
Commission or an employee designated by the City Municipal Utilities Commission
have been provided to the occupant and owner of the premises involved.
      (1)   If any bill is not paid by the due date listed on the bill, a
second bill will be mailed by the fifth day of the following month by first
class mail and shall state that if payment is not made within 20 days of the
mailing of the second bill, electric and water service to the premises will be
shut off for nonpayment.
      (2)   The second bill and shutoff notice shall contain the title, address
and telephone number of the official in charge of billing; the title, address
and telephone number shall be clearly visible and easily readable.
      (3)   The notice shall also state that the occupant or owner has the
right to a hearing before the electric and water services are shut off. The
occupant or owner may be represented in person and by counsel or any other
person of his or her choosing. The occupant or owner may present orally or in
writing his or her complaint to the official in charge of utility billing. This
official shall be authorized to order continuation of the customer’s service
and shall have the authority to adjust the customer’s bill or enter into a
mutually agreeable payment plan.
      (4)   If an occupant or owner requests a hearing, the electric and water
shall not be shut off until the hearing process is complete.
      (5)   If a customer fails to pay and fails to request a hearing under
this section, electric and water services will be shut off at the time
specified in the notice, but not until the charges have been due and unpaid for
at least 30 days.
   (C)   Certification for collection with taxes. Unpaid charges on electric,
sewer, water and refuse collection accounts shall not be certified to the
Director of Taxpayer Services until notice and an opportunity for a hearing
have been provided to the owner of the premises involved. The notice shall be
sent by first class mail and shall state that if payment is not made before the
date for certification, the entire amount unpaid plus penalties will be
certified to the Director of Taxpayer Services for collection as other taxes
are collected. The notice shall also state that the occupant may, before the
certification date, attend or schedule a hearing on the matter to object to
certification of unpaid utility and refuse collection charges.
   (D)   The owner of the property shall have the option of paying the balance
due on the account until the date the notice of the certification hearing is
mailed. After the date the notice of the certification is mailed, payments will
still be accepted but will include unpaid penalties.
   (E)   A hearing shall be held on the matter by the City Utilities
Commission. Property owners with unpaid utility charges shall have the
opportunity to object to the certification of unpaid charges to be collected as
taxes are collected. If, after the hearing, the City Utilities Commission finds
that the amounts claimed as delinquent are actually due and unpaid and that
there is no legal reason why the unpaid charges should not be certified for
collection with taxes in accordance with this subchapter, the City Utilities
Commission may recommend the City Council certify the unpaid charges to the
Director of Taxpayer Services for collection as other taxes are collected.
   (F)   For each certification sustained, the property owner shall have the
following options after the hearing:
      (1)   To pay the delinquent amount listed on the preliminary roll, but
without additional interest after the hearing, within ten days of the hearing
date;
      (2)   To pay the certified delinquent amount after the hearing date, but
before the county certification deadline, with interest at the rate set in the
adopted rate schedule, accrued beginning on the eleventh day following the
hearing date through the date of payment; or
      (3)   To pay the certified charges as billed them by the county on his or
her property tax statement with a collection term of one year.
   (G)   Fifteen days after the hearing, the certified roll, minus any
payments, shall be delivered to the county.
(Ord. 285, passed 7-2-2012)
WATER SYSTEM RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 50.30 WATER CONSERVATION.
   (A)   Emergency restrictions. Upon recommendation by the Utilities
Commission that a shortage of water supply threatens the city, the Mayor may
issue an emergency proclamation that restricts the times, days and hours during
which water may be used for sprinkling, irrigation, car washing, air
conditioning or other specified uses. After publication of the proclamation, no
person shall use or permit water to be used in violation of the proclamation.
The proclamation shall be effective until the next regular City Council meeting
when the restriction may be extended or rescinded by the City Council.
   (B)   Non-emergency restrictions. From May 1 through September 30 the
following watering restrictions shall be in place:
      (1)   All property owners are prohibited from watering, sprinkling, or
irrigating their lawns between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. daily.
      (2)   All property owners having even numbered addresses may water,
sprinkle or irrigate their lawn on even numbered calendar days and the property
owners having odd numbered addresses may water, sprinkle or irrigate their
lawns on odd number calendar days.
   (C)   Exceptions. The water use restrictions under this section do not apply
to:
      (1)   Properties with private wells.
      (2)   Recently established lawns and landscaping, if the property owner
receives a watering restriction waiver from the city which allows for watering
up to 30 days after installation. No new sod, seeding of lawns or new
landscaping requiring watering, sprinkling or irrigation shall be installed
during a water shortage emergency.
      (3)   Hand watering of plants, shrubs, trees and gardens is permitted on
a non-watering day if the watering devise is personally attending.
      (4)   Filling pools and washing cars
   (D)   Penalties. Any person who violated any provision of this section may
be issued a warning. Any continued use after the issuance of the warning would
constitute a misdemeanor offense.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 6-5-2023)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
51.01   Definition
   
51.02   Establishment
   
51.03   Depositing of garbage or refuse
   
51.04   Duties of owners or occupants
   
51.05   Disposal
   
51.06   Transportation
   
51.07   Burning
   
51.08   Council may make rules
   
51.09   Charges
   
51.10   Charges due, posted
   
51.11   Income
   
51.12   Violation a misdemeanor
§ 51.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL GARBAGE OR REFUSE. Any garbage or refuse from any business or
service establishment such as stores, restaurants, nursing homes, hotels,
rooming houses, gasoline service stations, churches, schools and other business
establishments.
   GARBAGE OR OTHER REFUSE. Waste paper, tin cans, bottles, old rags and
clothing, vegetable matter, kitchen refuse, grass clippings, hedge trimmings,
dead animals or any substance injurious to life or health. Such items as
refrigerators, stoves, washing machines, old furniture, automobiles, tree
trucks and stumps, old lumber and similar large items will not be considered
refuse to be picked up by the regular refuse collector without special prior
arrangements with the collector.
   HOUSEHOLD. A single-family dwelling or single apartment unit including
apartment unit or units in commercial or industrial buildings.
   INDUSTRIAL GARBAGE OR REFUSE. Any garbage or refuse from any manufacturing
plants, store houses and warehouses.
(Ord. 134A, passed 2-7-1972)
§ 51.02 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a city garbage collection system.
(Ord. 134A, passed 2-7-1972)
§ 51.03 DEPOSITING OF GARBAGE OR REFUSE.
   No person shall hereafter deposit or cause to be deposited any garbage or
refuse upon any street, avenue, vacant lot or upon any yard, back yard or other
ground or place appurtenant to any dwelling house, boarding house, lodging
house, hotel, café, store, factory, laundry, work shop or other building in the
city, except in metal or plastic cans or other suitable permanent receptacles
and in the manner in the chapter provided.
(Ord. 134A, passed 2-7-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 DUTIES OF OWNERS OR OCCUPANTS.
   Every owner or occupant or person in control or in possession of any
household, dwelling or building as defined in §
51.03 shall provide at his or her own expense and put and keep on the grounds,
backyard or other rear or side part of the lot appurtenant to any such building
and in a convenient place, easy of access for collection, a metal or plastic
can or other suitable permanent receptacle with a tight cover, of the capacity
of not more than 30 gallons, and with handles on the sides; which container
shall be kept clean; and every person shall deposit or cause to be deposited in
the can or container all garbage and refuse which shall accrue on his or her
premises in his or her control or possession, and shall deposit in the can or
receptacle the same drained of water or other fluid, the garbage to be placed
in plastic bags, and shall keep the container covered. Commercial and
industrial establishments shall provide suitable receptacles that properly
contain garbage or refuse so that offensive conditions of sight or smell are
not created.
(Ord. 134A, passed 2-7-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 DISPOSAL.
   No household garbage or refuse nor commercial or industrial garbage or
refuse shall be disposed of except by the owner thereof or by the city by a
garbage or refuse collector duly licensed by the city.
(Ord. 134A, passed 2-7-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   All garbage or other refuse shall be transported on the streets or
alleys in the city only in vehicles with leak-proof bodies of cleanable
construction, and completely covered with metal or heavy canvas and within the
maximum load limit restrictions.
   (B)   Vehicles shall be so operated that contents do not spill or drip upon
streets or alleys or otherwise create a nuisance.
(Ord. 134A, passed 2-7-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 BURNING.
   There shall be no burning of any garbage or refuse within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Ord. 134A, passed 2-7-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 COUNCIL MAY MAKE RULES.
   The City Council may make, by resolution, administrative regulations and
rules as may be necessary and proper to regulate, enforce and carry out the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 134A, passed 2-7-1972)
§ 51.09 CHARGES.
   The City Council shall make and establish by resolution a system of service
charges for the removal and disposal of household, commercial and industrial
garbage and refuse under the city garbage collection system. It shall fix and
declare the maximum charges, including any special charges and shall classify
the removal and disposal according to the type of service required and given.
(Ord. 134A, passed 2-7-1972)
§ 51.10 CHARGES DUE, POSTED.
   All the service charges for the garbage collection system shall be entered,
shown and placed on the city utilities bill and shall be indicated thereon as
city garbage and refuse collection service charge. All service charges shall be
due and payable at the office of the City Administrator. In case the services
are not paid on or before the twentieth day of the current calendar month,
after the same become due, the City Administrator shall add 10% to the amount
of the service charge bill and collect the same. All the service charges for
garbage refuse collection service shall be charged directly to the owner or
occupant of the real estate to which the service is provided.
(Ord. 134A, passed 2-7-1972)
§ 51.11 INCOME.
   All income from the operation of the garbage and refuse collection system
shall be kept and maintained in the General Fund. All expense of operation
shall be disbursed therefrom.
(Ord. 134A, passed 2-7-1972)
§ 51.12 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 134A, passed 2-7-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
Sewer Service Charges
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Sewer service charge system
   
52.03   Sewer Service Fund
   
52.04   Operations and Maintenance Fund
   
52.05   Capital Equipment Replacement Fund
   
52.06   Debt Service Retirement Fund
   
52.07   Users
   
52.08   Extra strength charge
   
52.09   Discharge of sewage into the sanitary sewer system
   
52.10   Charges and rates for the use and services of the sanitary sewer system
   
52.11   Certification of unpaid accounts
   
52.12   Each meter a separate billing
   
52.13   Billing
   
52.14   Revenues; sewer service fund
   
52.15   Annual review of wastewater contribution
   
52.16   Notification of user rates
   
52.17   Records
   
52.18   Capital equipment improvement program
   
52.19   User rate schedule of charges
Sewer Use Regulations
   
52.30   Control by the Superintendent
   
52.31   Unlawful construction of wastewater facilities and discharges
   
52.32   Private wastewater disposal
   
52.33   Building sewers and connections
   
52.34   Use of public services
   
52.35   Damage of wastewater facilities
   
52.36   User rate schedule for charges
   
52.37   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
52.38   Violations
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   ADMINISTRATION. Those fixed costs attributable to administration of the
wastewater treatment works.
   ASTM. ASTM International (formerly known as the American Society for Testing
Materials).
   AUTHORITY. The City of Lake Crystal, Minnesota, or its representative
thereof.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic-matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning
immediately outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection or service
connection.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter as determined by standard laboratory
procedures, and as expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES/SDS
permit if the treatment facilities are designed to treat the pollutants to a
degree which complies with effluent concentration limits imposed by the permit.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
   DEBT SERVICE. The revenue to be used solely for retirement of outstanding
debts of the authority’s wastewater treatment works.
   DOMESTIC OR SANITARY WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily produced by
residential users, with BOD concentration of 225 milligrams per liter and TSS
concentration of 215 milligrams per liter
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EXTRA STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater having a BOD and/or suspended solids
greater than domestic or sanitary waste as defined herein above, and not
otherwise classified as an incompatible waste.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
humans and animals whose presence in sanitary, sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant (defined herein) including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS or INDUSTRIES.
      (1)   Entities that discharge into a publicly owned wastewater treatment
works, liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in industrial or
manufacturing processes, or from the development of any natural resources.
         (a)   These are identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented
under one of the following divisions:
            1.   Division A. Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
            2.   Division B. Mining;
            3.   Division D. Manufacturing;
            4.   Division E. Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Sewers; and
            5.   Division I. Services.
         (b)   For the purpose of this definition, domestic or sanitary waste
shall be considered to have the following characteristics:
            1.   BOD less than 225 mg/l; and
            2.   Suspended solids less than 215 mg/l.
      (2)   Any non-governmental user of a publicly owned treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
which constitutes a hazard to humans to animals, creates a public nuisance, or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid, toxins as defined in EPA regulations, and
solid wastes resulting from industrial or manufacturing processes, trade or
business, or from the development, recovery and processing of natural
resources, as distinct from residential or domestic strength wastes.
   INDUSTRY. Any non-governmental or nonresidential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which discharges industrial wastes as defined above.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the authority’s wastewater
disposal system processes or operations which causes or significantly
contributes to a violation of any requirement of the authority’s NPDES and/or
SDS permit. The term includes sewage sludge use or disposal by the authority in
accordance with published regulations providing guidelines under § 405 of the
Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345, or any regulations developed pursuant
to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air
Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, being
15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or more stringent state criteria applicable to the
method of disposal or use employed by the authority.
   MAY. Permissive. See definition for SHALL herein.
   MPCA. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations, 40 C.F.R.
Part 403, establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in
publicly-owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by the treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of the treatment facilities, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to §§ 402 and 405
of the Act.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or ground water.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added, is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users with a BOD concentration not greater than 225 mg/l and a
suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 215 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Those variable expenditures and costs which are
directly: attributable to the operations and maintenance of a waste treatment
works. The term O&M includes “replacement” as defined herein.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly-owned treatment works.
See definition of NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS herein.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance of the treatment
facility for which it was designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USERS. All non-
industrial users.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only sanitary or sanitary and
industrial waste waters from residences, commercial buildings, industrial
plants and institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm and
surface waters that are not admitted intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer and a
storm sewer.
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (4)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (5)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a
public authority.
      (6)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by a public
authority.
      (7)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters
which are not admitted intentionally.
      (8)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
storm waters, surface runoff, ground water, sub-surface water, street wash
water, drainage and unpolluted water from any source.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM. The system of charges by which revenue is
generated to offset the cost of operation and maintenance plus replacement,
administration and debt service.
   SEWER SERVICE FUND. The depository for the sewer service charge system for
all revenues collected from the user charges and rate schedules, and in some
instances interest collected. The monies in the fund shall be used to pay the
operating and maintenance costs through the Operating and Maintenance Fund,
equipment replacement costs through the Capital Equipment Replacement Fund, and
annual debt service retirement payments through the Debt Service Retirement
Fund. These three funds are expenditure accounts for municipal accounting
records.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater treatment
facility which has a discharge flow: in excess of 25,000 gallons per average
work day; or has exceeded 5% of the total flow received at the treatment
facility; or whose waste contains a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts pursuant
to § 307(a) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a); or whose discharge has a
significant effect, either singly or in combination with other contributing
industries, on the wastewater disposal system, the quality of sludge, the
system’s effluent quality or emissions generated by the treatment system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation, and shall adversely affect the collection
and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD METHODS. The latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination
of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association,
the American Water Works Association, and the Water Environment Federation.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time, for a disposal system as
defined by M.S. § 115.01, Subd. 8, as it may be amended from time to time.
   STORM DRAIN. Sometimes termed STORM SEWER, shall mean a drain or sewer
intended or carry storm waters, surface runoff, groundwater, sub-surface water,
street wash waters, drainage and unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The utilities superintendent or a deputy, agent or
representative thereof.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOC. Total organic carbon which shall be determined using a total organic
carbon analyzer.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse affects as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act.
   TSS or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS. All particles suspended in water which will
not pass through a filter.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities. See NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER.
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the authority’s wastewater disposal system.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the treatment facilities for the
users’ proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance (including
replacement) of the works under 33 U.S.C. §§ 1281(h)(2) and 1284(b)(1)(a) of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
   USER CLASSES.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL. Retail or wholesale type establishments, i.e.,
restaurants, hotels, motels, stores, filling stations, commercial laundry, and
so forth, that discharge wastewater, as defined herein into the public
wastewater, treatment system, works and facility.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL. See definition of INDUSTRIAL USER herein.
      (3)   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL. Hospitals; nursing homes; schools;
city, county, state or federal industrial buildings; or facilities that
discharge wastewater into the public wastewater treatment system, works and
facility.
      (4)   RESIDENTIAL. A principal family residence or habitation classed as
single-family, multi-family or apartment dwelling, that discharges domestic
sanitary wastewater having characteristics of 225 mg/l BOD and 215 mg/
l suspended solids, into the public wastewater treatment systems, works and
facility.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community and referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, convey and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
authority for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling
and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater,
or structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and wet well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from the treatment.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
   WPCF. Now known as the Water Environment Federation.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985; Ord. 177, passed 12-1-1986)
§ 52.02 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM.
   The authority hereby establishes a sewer service charge system whereby all
revenues collected from users will be used to offset all expenditures incurred
for operations and maintenance, equipment replacement, administrative, extra
strength treatment and the annual debt service payment of the wastewater
treatment plant, its facilities and equipment, and related sewage systems.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985; Ord. 177, passed 12-1-1986)
§ 52.03 SEWER SERVICE FUND.
   The authority hereby establishes a Sewer Service Fund, whereby all revenue
collected from users as defined in §
52.01, will be deposited for disbursements into the Operations and Maintenance
Fund, Capital Equipment Replacement and the Debt Service Retirement Fund. For
the purposes of municipal and cost accounting records, the fund is designated
as an Income Account.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 52.04 OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE FUND.
   The authority hereby establishes a Operations and Maintenance Fund for the
purposes of funding/paying all expenditures of operating and maintaining
administrating, the wastewater treatment system, plant and facilities. This
includes extra strength treatment of wastewater above the normal domestic
strength wastewater and repairs/maintenance to the sewage system to maintain
operations. Operating funds (monies) for this fund will be transferred from the
Sewer Service Fund. For the purposes of municipal and cost accounting records,
this fund is designated as Expenditure Account.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 52.05 CAPITAL EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT FUND.
   The authority hereby establishes a Capital Equipment Replacement Fund for
the purposes of providing funds to purchase capital equipment for replacement,
as planned and budgeted in the Capital Equipment Improvements Program. See §
52.32. For the purposes of municipal and cost accounting records, this fund is
designated as an Expenditure Account.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 52.06 DEBT SERVICE RETIREMENT FUND.
   The authority hereby establishes a Debt Service Retirement Fund for the
purposes of providing funds to be used solely for retirement of outstanding
debts of the authority’s wastewater treatment works. Annually the authority
shall transfer the amount of funds required by the debt service retirement
payment schedule for that year. For the purposes of municipal and cost
accounting records, this fund is designated as Expenditure Account.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 52.07 USERS.
   There will be four classes of users:
   (A)   Residential;
   (B)   Commercial;
   (C)   Institutional/governmental; and
   (D)   Industrial.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 52.08 EXTRA STRENGTH CHARGE.
   There will be an extra strength charge for users that discharge extra
strength waste.
   (A)   EXTRA STRENGTH WASTE is defined as waste having either a BOD
concentration greater than 225 mg/l or a suspended solids concentration greater
than 215 mg/l, or both BOD and suspended solids concentration greater than
specified.
   (B)   The following formula will be used to compute the extra strength
service charge for BOD and SS.
CBOD = (W-225) x (.0083 F) x VC-BOD
CSS = (W-215) x (.0083 F) x VC-SS
   Where:
CBOD = Extra strength service charge for BOD
CSS = Extra strength service charge for SS
W = Extra strength waste in milligrams per liter
F = Water used in 1000s of gallons
VCBOD = Unit cost for BOD for treatment + replacement + debt service
VCSS = Unit cost for SS for treatment + replacement + debt service
   (C)   Establishments not providing automatic waste monitoring equipment will
be assessed on the basis of BOD and SS as determined by analysis of a 24 hour
composite sample collected annually by the Superintendent. The waste producer
may be required to provide a suitable point for metering and sample collection
and shall cooperate in every way with the Superintendent. Where it is not
feasible to obtain a single representative sample, the Superintendent may
compute a theoretical waste strength based upon similar establishments. Where
it is evident that a constituent of the waste significantly inhibits the
standard analysis for BOD, the charges may be assessed on the basis of the TOC
analysis. For the purpose of computation, the BOD shall be assumed to be
equivalent to 1.8 times the TOC.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 52.09 DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE INTO THE SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   If any lot, parcel of land or premises which discharges sewage into
the sanitary sewer system, either directly or indirectly obtains part or all of
the water used thereon from sources other than the public utility department
and the water, so obtained is not measured by a meter in a manner which is
acceptable to the Superintendent, then, in that case, the authority shall
permit the discharge of sewage into its sanitary sewerage system only when the
owner of such a lot, parcel of land or premises or some other interested party
shall at his or her expense install and maintain a water meter which shall be
satisfactory to the Superintendent. The water meter shall be installed so as to
measure all water received on the lot, parcel of land or premises and the above
charges and rates shall be applied to the quantity of water received as
measured by the meter; however, if it shall be deemed impracticable by the
Superintendent to measure the water used on any lot, parcel of land or
premises, and upon approval of the Council, a flat charge may be made in
accordance with the estimated use of water on the lot, parcel of land, or
premises.
   (B)   If a lot, parcel of land or premises discharges sewage into the
sanitary sewer system either directly or indirectly; and the Superintendent is
satisfied that a portion of the water measured by the meter or meters does not
and cannot enter the sanitary sewer system, then, in that event, and upon
approval by the Council, the Superintendent is authorized to determine, in such
manner and by such method as he or she may deem practicable, the percentage of
the water measured by the meter which enters the sanitary sewer system, in such
case the charges and rates shall be based upon the percentage of the metered
water as determined by the Superintendent and approved by the Council. In the
alternative in any such case, the Superintendent is authorized to require or to
permit the installation of other or additional meters in such a manner that the
quantity of water which actually enters the sanitary sewer system may be
determined. In such case the charges or rates shall be based upon the amount of
water so shown to actually enter the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 52.10 CHARGES AND RATES FOR THE USE AND SERVICES OF THE SANITARY SEWER
SYSTEM.
   The charges and rates for the use and services of the sanitary sewer system
to be made against any lot, parcel of land or premises situated outside the
corporate limits of the authority which shall have any active connection with
the sanitary sewer system or which shall otherwise discharge sewage either
directly and indirectly into the sewer system shall be determined as provided,
in this subchapter and the charge or rate shall be established in this §§
52.03 to
52.17.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 52.11 CERTIFICATION OF UNPAID ACCOUNTS.
   On or before November 1 of each year, the Public Utility Department shall
certify to the City Administrator a list of unpaid accounts showing the names
and addresses of all unpaid sewer accounts up to September 30 of that year. On
or before November 25, the Council shall assess the unpaid accounts against the
property receiving the use and service of the sanitary sewer system, with the
assessments including interest at 5% per annum from October 1 to May 31
following, shall be a lien on the affected properties as shown in the
assessment tabulation and shall be collected in the same manner as other
special assessments. The sum collected together with interest shall be
deposited in the Sewer Service Fund for subsequent transfer to the appropriate
expenditure account.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 52.12 EACH METER A SEPARATE BILLING.
   Each meter shall be considered a separate billing unit in applying the above
charges and rates, except that any contribution to the sanitary sewer system
whose water supply at a particular location is received through more than one
meter shall be billed on the basis of the combined reading of the several
meters.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 52.13 BILLING.
   Bills for the charges for the use and service of the sanitary sewer system
shall be made out by the Public Utility Department, in accordance with its
usual and customary practices. The time of making the bills and the period
covered thereby shall be in accordance with the meter reading practices of the
Public Utility Department. The billing period will be based on quarterly meter
reading. All bills shall be payable to the office of the Department of Public
Utilities. All bills shall be paid within 30 days. If bills are not paid within
30 days, an interest penalty of 5% per annum shall be assessed. The authority
shall reimburse the Public Utility Department for all reasonable costs incurred
in meter reading, billing and collection.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 52.14 REVENUES; SEWER SERVICE FUND.
   The balance of the revenues derived from the rates and charges shall be
deposited with the City Treasurer for deposit in the Sewer Service Fund and
subsequent transfer to the appropriate expenditure account.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 52.15 ANNUAL REVIEW OF WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION.
   The authority will review annually and not less than biennially the
wastewater contribution applicable to each user and user classes, the total
operation and maintenance costs of the wastewater treatment system and works,
and the current approved sewer service charge system, and the charges defined/
described in §§
52.03 to
52.17. The intent of the review is: to maintain proportionate distribution of
the O&M costs among all users and user classes; to generate sufficient revenues
to fund all O&M/R costs at treatment system and works; and apply excess
revenues collected through the user rate schedule of charges, attributable to
the operations and maintenance portion of the charges, and adjust that portion
of the charges the following year for all classes of users.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 52.16 NOTIFICATION OF USER RATES.
   Each user will be notified annually, at the beginning of each calendar year,
either by mail with his or her or their regular bill, or through publication of
§§
52.03 to
52.17, of the user charge rates per user class, the extra strength surcharge
and other charges attributable to the wastewater treatment services.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 52.17 RECORDS.
   The City Administrator will be responsible to maintain all records necessary
to document compliance with the sewer service system adopted.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 52.18 CAPITAL EQUIPMENT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.
   (A)   The authority hereby establishes a Capital Equipment Improvement
Program. The purpose of the program is to establish an orderly program of
capital equipment replacement based on the replacement costs, service and life
expectancy of the equipment and the annual replacement cost.
   (B)   The Capital Equipment Improvement Program will be established under
the following conditions.
      (1)   The program be set up on a four-year schedule and budget to
anticipate an orderly replacement of capital equipment, based on the condition
in division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   The data basic for this program be the basic equipment and
maintenance information records of the maintenance management system.
      (3)   The program be reviewed annually, as part of the sewer service
charge system to ensure that the program schedule and budget is coordinated and
adjusted with the condition in division (B)(1) above.
      (4)   The estimated annual equipment replacement cost will be placed in a
Capital Equipment Replacement Fund.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 52.19 USER RATE SCHEDULE OF CHARGES.
   (A)   All classes of users will be charged on the rates established and
described in division (C) below.
   (B)   All users shall be charged quarterly for sewer services according to
the respective quarterly water meter readings.
   (C)   User rate schedule; the following Equation 1 will be used to determine
the user sewer service charges:
   Equation 1:
C = C.S. x A + F x Coll. + [F x Treat + BOD x Treat + SS x TreatBOD + SS x
TreatSS]
+ [F x ReplF + BOD x ReplBOD + SS x ReplSS] + [F x DebtF + BOD x DebtBOD + SS x
DebtSS]
   Where:
C = Annual charges to a user
C.S.= Unit cost for customer service
A = Number of accounts for user
F = Flow for user (1,000 gal)
Coll. = Unit cost for collection system ($/1,000 gal)
TreatF = Unit cost for flow in treatment system ($/1,000 gal)
TreatBOD = Unit cost for BOD in treatment system ($#/day)
TreatSS = Unit cost for SS in treatment system ($ #/day)
BOD =   Proportion of BOD represented by this user (lbs/day BOD = Flow (1,000
gal) X 225 mg/l x .0083)
SS = Proportion of SS represented by this user (lbs/day SS = Flow (1,000 gal) x
215 mg/l x .0083)
ReplF - Unit cost for flow in replacement capital
ReplBOD = Unit cost for BOD in replacement capital
ReplSS = Unit cost for SS in replacement capital
DebtF = Unit cost for flow in debt service
DebtBOD= Unit cost for BOD in debt service
DebtSS = Unit cost for SS in debt service
   (D)   The user charge rates and debt service charge rates shall be computed
annually in accordance with §
52.02(O), and the methodology as presented in the sewer service charge system
report of 1984 for the city.
(Ord. 174, passed 1-7-1985)
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
§ 52.30 CONTROL BY THE SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Superintendent shall have control and general supervision of all public
sewers and service connections in the city, and shall be responsible for
administering the provisions of this subchapter to the end that a proper and
efficient public sewer is maintained.
(Ord. 177, passed 12-1-1986)
§ 52.31 UNLAWFUL CONSTRUCTION OF WASTEWATER FACILITIES AND DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner or public or private property within the
city, or in any area under jurisdiction, any human or animal excrement, garbage
or objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this subchapter and the city’s NPDES/
SDS permit.
   (C)   Except as provided hereinafter, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes from which wastewater is
discharged, and which is situated within the city and adjacent to any street,
alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in the future be
located, a public sanitary sewer of the city, shall be required at the owner’s
expense to install a suitable service connection to the public sewer in
accordance with provisions of this subchapter, within 30 days of the date the
public sewer is operational, provided the public sewer is within 500 feet of
the structure generating the wastewater. All future buildings constructed on
property adjacent to the public sewer shall be required to immediately connect
to the public sewer. If sewer connections are not made pursuant to this
section, an official 30-day notice shall be served instructing the affected
property owner to make the connection.
   (E)   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer in
compliance with a notice given under division (D) above, the city must
undertake to have the connection made and shall assess the cost thereof against
the benefitted property. The assessment, when levied, shall bear interest at
the rate determined by the City Council and shall be certified to the Auditor
of the county, and shall be collected and remitted to the city in the same
manner as assessments for local improvements. The rights of the city shall be
in addition to any remedial or enforcement provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 177, passed 12-1-1986)
§ 52.32 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sewer is not available, the building sewer shall be
connected to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions
of this section.
   (B)   Prior to commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the city.
The application for the permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other in
formation as are deemed necessary to the city.
   (C)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the city
or its authorized representative. The city or its representative shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and, in any event,
the applicant for the permit shall notify the city when work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of notice.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all requirements of Minn. Rules Chapter 7080,
entitled “Individual Sewage Treatment System Standards”. No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
serviced by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be
made to the public sewer within 30 days in compliance with the subchapter, and
within 30 days any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater
disposal systems shall be cleaned of sludge. The bottom shall be broken to
permit drainage, and the tank or pit filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the
city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the MPCA or the
Department of Health of the state.
(Ord. 177, passed 12-1-1986)
§ 52.33 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any new connection(s) to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited
unless sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities including,
but not limited to, capacity for flow, BOD and suspended solids, as determined
by the Superintendent.
   (B)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (C)   Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or authorized
agent and the party employed to do the work, and shall state the location, name
of owner, street number of the building to be connected, and how occupied. No
person shall extend any private building drain beyond the limits of the
building or property for which the service connection permit has been given.
   (D)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or any other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the city. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide
information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics and type of
activity.
   (E)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (F)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building.
   (G)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent or his or
her representative, to meet all requirements of this subchapter.
   (H)   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the State Building and Plumbing Code, Minn. Rules Chapter 4714, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions
or in the amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the latest edition of Activate
Sludge, (Manual of Practice No. 9) published by the Water Environmental
Foundation, shall apply.
   (I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (J)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or indirectly to the wastewater disposal system.
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the State Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the latest edition of Activate
Sludge, (Manual of Practice No. 9) published by the Water Environmental
Foundation. All the connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight, and
verified by proper testing to prevent the inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
city prior to installation.
   (L)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection and inspection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (M)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work, shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (N)   No person shall make a service connection to any public sewer unless
that person is a licensed master plumber in accordance with the State Plumbing
Code, Minn. Rules Chapter 4714, or plumber under the direct supervision of a
master plumber. A plumbing permit shall be obtained from the city for all
service connections.
(Ord. 177, passed 12-1-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.34 USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
water such as stormwater, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage or non-
contact cooling water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the city and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet
on approval of the city and upon approval and the issuance of a discharge
permit by the MPCA.
   (C)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the
flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
treatment facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with
particles greater than one-half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues,
paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper,
wood, plastic, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel
or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system; or
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any pollutant
identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a).
   (D)   The following described substances, materials, water, or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works treatment
process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
and/or soil, vegetation and ground water, or will not otherwise endanger life
and limb, and public property or constitute a nuisance.
      (1)   The Superintendent or his or her representative may set limitations
lower than limitations established in the regulations below if, in his or her
opinion, such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above
objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of wastes,
the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantity of
subject waste in reaction to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, the city’s
NPDES and/or SDS permit, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent
factors.
      (2)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or waste waters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Superintendent are as follows:
         (a)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C),
or causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent
at the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C),
or having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the
wastewater treatment works resulting in interference therein;
         (b)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65.6°C); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral
origin of greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not;
         (c)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute
a “slug” as defined herein (see §
52.01);
         (d)   Any garbage not properly shredded, as defined in §
52.01. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels,
institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or similar places
where garbage originates from the preparation of food on the premises or when
served by caterers;
         (e)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair;
         (f)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions;
         (g)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm, drainage or
ground water;
         (h)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in
such quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal
system;
         (i)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (j)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to a
degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment works in excess of the following limits for those
materials:
0.5 mg/l arsenic
0.5 mg/l cadmium
1.5 mg/l copper
0.5 mg/l cyanide
1.5 mg/l lead
0.05 mg/l mercury
1.5 mg/l nickel
0.5 mg/l silver
0.5 mg/l total chromium
1.5 mg/l zinc
 
         (k)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the
wastewater disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation or
ordinance of any regulatory agency, or state or federal regulatory body; or
         (l)   Any waters or wastes containing BOD5 or suspended solids of a
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
such materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be permitted by
specific written agreement subject to the provisions of division (P) below.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and/or which in the judgment
of the Superintendent or his or her representative, may have a deleterious
effect upon the wastewater treatment facilities, processes or equipment;
receiving waters and/or soil, vegetation and ground water; or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b),
and all addendums thereof;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating
and disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
      (2)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design, installation and maintenance of the facilities and equipment
shall be made at the owners’ expense, and shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
   (F)   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner,
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in divisions (C)
and (D) above, or contained in the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
or any state requirements.
   (G)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation at the expense of the owner(s).
   (H)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent or his or her representative, they are necessary
for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in
excessive amounts, as specified in division (D)(2) above, any flammable wastes
as specified in division (C)(1) above, sand or other harmful ingredients;
except that the interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters
or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of the type to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these
interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal and
disposal of the captured materials by appropriate means, and shall maintain a
record of dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collecting materials not
performed by the owner’s personnel, must be performed by a currently licensed
waste disposal firm.
   (I)   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure,
or control manhole, with necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of wastes.
The structure shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the city. The structure shall be installed
by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by the owner to be
safe and accessible at all times.
   (J)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide
laboratory measurements, tests or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate
compliance with this subchapter and any special condition for discharge
established by the city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses
to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry
must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge
to assure that compliance with federal, state and local standards are being
met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses
to the city at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the city. The
owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses and reporting
required by the city. At such times as deemed necessary, the city reserves the
right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an independent
laboratory.
   (K)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent or
his or her representative.
   (L)   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
sanitary sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this subchapter. Where
necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Superintendent or his or her representative for review and
approval prior to construction of the facility. Review and approval of the
plans and operating procedures shall not relieve any user from the
responsibility to modify the user’s facility as necessary to meet the
requirements of this subchapter. Users shall notify the Superintendent or his
or her representative immediately upon having a slug or accidental discharge of
substances of wastewater in violation of this subchapter to enable
countermeasures to be taken by the Superintendent or his or her representative
to minimize damage to the wastewater treatment works. The notification will not
relieve any user of any liability for any expense, loss or damage to the
wastewater treatment system or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on
the city on account thereof under any state and federal law. Employees shall
ensure that all employees who may cause or discover such a discharge, are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
   (M)   No person, having charge of any building or other premises which
drains into the public sewer, shall permit any substance or matter which may
form a deposit or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sewer. Within 30
days after receipt of written notice from the city, the owner shall install a
suitable and sufficient catch basin or waste trap, or if one already exists,
shall clean out, repair or alter the same, and perform other work as the
Superintendent may deem necessary. Upon the owner’s refusal or neglect to
install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair or alter the same
after the period of 30 days, the Superintendent or his or her representative
may cause the work to be completed at the expense of the owner or
representative thereof.
   (N)   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken or
out of order, or detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or unfit for the
purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause the work to be done as the
Superintendent or his or her representative may direct. Each day after 30 days
that a person neglects or fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation
of this section, and the Superintendent or his or her representative may then
cause the work to be done, and recover from the owner or agent the expense
thereof by an action in the name of the city.
   (O)   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing
facility shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times, a
catch basin or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil,
dirt or any mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
   (P)   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the city may assess against any person the cost of
repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result of
the discharge of prohibited wastes by such person, any may collect the
assessment as an additional charge for the use of the public sewer system or in
any other manner deemed appropriate by the city.
   (Q)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the
industrial concern, providing that National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
and the city’s NPDES and/or state disposal system permit limitations are not
violated.
(Ord. 177, passed 12-1-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.35 DAMAGE OF WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 177, passed 12-1-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.36 USER RATE SCHEDULE FOR CHARGES.
   Each user of sewer service shall pay the charge(s) applicable to the type of
service, and in accordance with the provisions set forth in §§
52.01 through
52.17.
(Ord. 177, passed 12-1-1986)
§ 52.37 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent or his or her representative, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purpose of inspection, observations, measurement, sampling and testing
pertinent to the discharges to the city’s sewer system in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or his or her representative is authorized to
obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing
on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection system. An
industry may withhold information considered confidential however, the industry
must establish that the revelation to the public of the information in question
might result, in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing necessary work on private properties, the
Superintendent or his or her representative shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the owner.
   (D)   The Superintendent or his or her representative shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the city holds an easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 177, passed 12-1-1986)
§ 52.38 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter shall be
served by the city with written notice, stating the nature of the violation,
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently
cease all violations. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the
time limit provided for shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction
thereof, shall be fined per §
10.99. Each day in which any such violation occurs shall be deemed as a
separate offense. Any person violating any of the provision of this subchapter
shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by
the city by reason of violation.
(Ord. 177, passed 12-1-1986)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   USE OF HIGHWAYS, STREETS AND THE LIKE
      
72.   BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS AND MOPEDS
      
73.   MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS
      
74.   SNOWMOBILES
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Use of engine-retarding brakes
§ 70.01 USE OF ENGINE-RETARDING BRAKES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any truck to intentionally use an engine
retarding brake on any public highway, street, parking lot or alley within the
corporate limits of the city, except in an emergency. Appropriate signs shall
be erected at highway entrances to the city accordingly.
   (B)   ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE, for the purposes of this section, shall mean a
dynamic brake, Jake brake, Jacob’s brake, C-brake, Peccar brake or other
similar engine retarding brake system which alters the normal compression of
the engine and subsequently releases the compression causing abnormal or excess
noise from the engine.
(Ord. 223, passed 12- -1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: USE OF HIGHWAYS, STREETS AND THE LIKE
Section
   
71.01   Applicability
   
71.02   Purpose
   
71.03   Definitions
   
71.04   Turning
   
71.05   Through streets/one-way streets
   
71.06   Speed regulations
   
71.07   Truck routes
   
71.08   Seasonal weight restrictions
   
71.09   Parking
   
71.10   Truck zones, loading zones and the like
   
71.11   Bus stops
   
71.12   Winter parking
   
71.13   Establishment of safety zones, lanes of traffic and the like
   
71.14   Removing keys
   
71.15   Exhibition driving prohibited
   
71.16   Police duties
   
71.17   Misdemeanor
§ 71.01 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all driving conduct within the city, whether on
a street, parking lot, public or private property or on the ice of any lake or
river. Furthermore, this chapter is intended to act as a localized supplement
to the state statutes, which terms and definitions are applicable, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 229, passed - -2001)
§ 71.02 PURPOSE.
   The City Council has enacted this chapter for the following legislative
purposes:
   (A)   Vehicle and pedestrian safety;
   (B)   Neighborhood appearance and sustaining property value; and
   (C)   Reducing the maintenance required for the upkeep of roads.
(Ord. 229, passed - -2001)
§ 71.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Any term in this chapter and defined in M.S. § 169.011, as it may be amended
from time to time, has the meaning given by that section.
(Ord. 229, passed - -2001)
§ 71.04 TURNING.
   (A)   Restriction on turns. The City Council by resolution may, whenever
necessary to preserve the free flow of traffic or to provide for the safety of
other vehicles or pedestrians, designate any intersection as one where the
turning of vehicles to the left or to the right, or both, is to be restricted
at all times during specified hours. The City Street and Maintenance Department
shall be directed to mark by appropriate signs any intersection so designated.
No intersection on a trunk highway shall be so designated until the consent of
the Commissioner of Transportation to the designation is first obtained. No
person shall turn a vehicle an any such intersection contrary to the directions
on the signs.
   (B)   U-turns. The City Council may, by resolution whenever necessary to
preserve the free flow of traffic or to provide for the safety of other
vehicles or pedestrians, designate any intersection as the one where the
turning of a vehicle so as to reverse its direction is prohibited. The City
Council shall provide for the erection of proper signs to designate those
intersections upon which a U-turn is prohibited.
(Ord. 229, passed - -2001)
§ 71.05 THROUGH STREETS/ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The City Council may by resolution designate any street, portion of street,
or alley as a through highway or a one-way roadway where necessary to preserve
the free flow of traffic or to provide for the safety of other vehicles or
pedestrians. The City Street and Maintenance Department shall be directed to
post appropriate signs at the entrance of the street. No trunk highways shall
be so designated unless the consent of the Commissioner of Transportation to
the designation is first secured.
(Ord. 229, passed - -2001)
§ 71.06 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle upon a street or highway within the
city, at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
and having regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing. In every
event, speed shall be so restricted as may be necessary to avoid colliding with
any person, vehicle or other conveyance on or entering the highway in
compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
No person shall drive a vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or block the
normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
   (B)   Unless otherwise posted, the speed limit shall be 30 mph.
   (C)   The City Council shall by resolution designate and declare a speed
zone upon a street or highway within the city.
(Ord. 229, passed - -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the term TRUCK means a vehicle with a
gross weight in excess of six tons.
   (B)   A person must operate a truck only on streets that are designated
truck routes; truck routes consist of the following streets:
      (1)   All United States highways within the city;
      (2)   All state highways within the city; and
      (3)   All county highways within the city.
   (C)   The provisions of division (B) above do not apply to the following
vehicles:
      (1)   School buses when engaged in the act of transporting pupils to and
from school;
      (2)   Emergency vehicles;
      (3)   Trucks belonging to the city;
      (4)   Trucks belonging to utility companies when actually engaged in the
construction or repair of utility company facilities;
      (5)   Trucks delivering retail merchandise to home; and
      (6)   Trucks belonging to construction companies when engaged in the
construction of new homes or remodeling of existing homes.
(Ord. 229, passed - -2001)
§ 71.08 SEASONAL WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The City Administrator and the Street and Maintenance Superintendent
may prohibit the operation of vehicles upon any street under city jurisdiction
or impose weight restrictions on vehicles to be operated on the street whenever
the street, by reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic
conditions, will be seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles
on the street is prohibited or the permissible weights thereof reduced.
   (B)   The City Street and Maintenance Department shall be directed to erect
and maintain signs plainly indicating the prohibition or restriction at each
end of that portion of the street affected.
   (C)   No person shall operate a vehicle on a posted street in violation of
the prohibition or restriction.
(Ord. 229, passed - -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.09 PARKING.
   (A)   Parking. Except where the City Council may designate by resolution
that angle parking shall be required, on all other streets vehicles shall be
parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway in accordance with law.
   (B)   No parking, stopping or standing zones.
      (1)    The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets and
alleys, or portions of streets, alleys, or parking lots as no parking or no
stopping and standing zones or as zones for parking by physically handicapped
persons and may limit the hours in which the restrictions apply. These
regulations may also include limiting the times that vehicles may be parked or
intended to be parked in the street or alley and include a determination that
there should be no parking in the street or alley. In making these decisions,
the City Council shall consider the nature of the neighborhood, the location of
schools, parks, recreational facilities, medical facilities, nursing homes, and
other factors that affect pedestrian use of the roads and the traffic flow of
the area. If the Council determines that parking shall be restricted or that
there be no parking on a street or alley, signs will be erected advising the
public of the restriction.
      (2)   The City Street and Maintenance Department shall be directed to
mark by appropriate signs each zone so designated. Except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or a traffic control device, no person shall stop or park a
vehicle in an established no parking stopping or standing zone when stopping or
standing is prohibited.
      (3)   No vehicle shall be parked in a no-parking zone during hours when
parking is prohibited except as permitted by state law and except that a
vehicle may be parked temporarily in the zone for the purpose of a funeral
procession and a truck may be parked temporarily between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 12:00 noon of any business day for the purpose of loading or unloading
where access to the premises is not otherwise available.
   (C)   Time limit parking zones. The City Council may, by resolution,
designate certain areas where the right to park is limited during the hours
specified. The City Street and Maintenance Department shall be directed to mark
by appropriate signs each zone so designated. During the hours specified on the
sign, no person shall park a vehicle in any limited parking zone for a longer
period than is so specified.
   (D)   24-hour parking. No vehicle in any case shall be parked upon any city-
owned street, alley or parking lot in anyone place for a longer continuous
period than 24 hours.
   (E)   Truck parking.
      (1)   On-street parking. It is unlawful to park a detached semi-trailer,
semi-truck with a trailer, truck-tractor, any combination of the same or any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of six tons, upon any street, alley or
parking lot owned by the city.
      (2)   Off-street parking. It is unlawful to park a detached semi-trailer,
semi-truck with trailer, truck-tractor, any combination of the same or any
vehicle with a weight classification of G through T inclusive, as specified in
M.S. § 168.013, Subd. 1e, as it may be amended from time to time, upon any
private property within the city in any area zoned as a residential district.
      (3)   Exceptions. The above provisions shall not apply to restrict
parking which is otherwise legal, as follows:
         (a)   Parking for the purpose of loading and/or unloading and then
only during the time necessary for that purpose; and
         (b)   Vehicles used for residential construction activities during the
period of time that they are needed to be used for that activity and they have
notified and received authorization from the Police Department.
   (F)   Recreational vehicle parking. It is unlawful to park any recreational
vehicle on any street, alley or parking lot owned by the city. For the purposes
of this chapter, a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE is defined as follows: travel trailers,
including those that telescope or fold down, chassis mounted campers, house
cars, motor homes, tent trailers, slip-in campers, non-motorized trailers
intended and generally used for transporting boats, utility trailers,
snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, boats or any other watercraft.
   (G)   Police duties. The City Police Department shall enforce the provisions
of this section, related schedules, and the state traffic laws. Police Officers
are authorized to direct all traffic within the city, either in person or by
means of visual audible signal, in conformity with these regulations and the
state traffic laws. During a fire or other emergency to expedite traffic or
safeguard pedestrians, Officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as
conditions require them, notwithstanding the provisions of this section,
related schedules, and state traffic laws. Officers of the Fire Department may
direct or assist the Police Department in directing traffic at the scene of a
fire or in the immediate vicinity.
   (H)   Impoundment. Any police officer may remove a vehicle from a street or
parking lot to a garage or other place of safety when the vehicle is left
unattended and constitutes an obstruction to traffic or hinders snow removal or
street improvement or maintenance operations. The vehicle shall not be released
until the fees for towing and storage are paid in addition to any fine imposed
for violation of this ordinance.
   (I)   Violation. The presence of any motor vehicle on any street or parking
lot when standing or parking in violation of this chapter is prima facie
evidence that the registered owner of the vehicle committed or authorized the
Commission of the violation.
   (J)   Penalty. Unless otherwise declared in this section or related
schedules with respect to a particular offense, any vehicle parked or stopped
in violation of any signs, conditions, or requirements of this section or
related schedules is declared a misdemeanor, and subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 229, passed - -2001; Ord. 2018-04, passed 9-17-2018)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.10 TRUCK ZONES, LOADING ZONES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The City Council may by resolution establish spaces in streets or
parking lots as loading zones or truck zones. The hours of 7:00 a.m. and 12:00
noon of any day except Sundays, New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, July 4, Labor
Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day or other such time as the City Council
may specify in the resolution establishing the zone shall be the loading zone
or truck zone hours. The City Street and Maintenance Department shall be
directed to mark each such zone by appropriate signs.
   (B)   During truck zone hours, no person shall stop, stand or park any
vehicle except a truck in a truck zone. No person shall stop, stand or park a
truck in a truck zone during truck zone hours, except to receive or discharge
passengers or freight and then only for a period of no longer than is necessary
for the purposed.
   (C)   During loading zone hours, no person shall stop, stand or park any
vehicle in a loading zone except to receive or discharge passengers or freight
and then only for the a period of time no longer than is necessary for the
purpose. No person shall occupy a loading zone with a vehicle other than a
truck for a period of time longer than five minutes during the hours.
   (D)   Any person or business desiring the establishment of a loading zone or
truck zone abutting premises occupied by him or her shall make written
application therefor to the City Council. If the Council grants the request,
the proper city official shall bill the applicant for the estimated cost of
placing signs and of painting the curb. When the amount is paid to the city,
the City Administrator shall order the installation of the necessary signs and
painting of the curb.
   (E)   No person shall allow a semi-trailer to stand or be parked unattached
from a tractor unit for any length of time on any street or parking lot in the
city except in an emergency or to change tractors.
   (F)   The City Council may by resolution establish “No Truck Parking” zones
in the business district and the City Street and Maintenance Department shall
be directed to make by appropriate signs any zones so established. The zones
shall be established in the business district where heavy traffic by trucks or
other traffic congestion makes parking by trucks a hazard to the safety of
vehicles or pedestrians. No person shall park a truck of more that one ton
capacity between 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on any week day upon any street in
any such zone, but parking of the vehicle for a period of not more than 30
minutes shall be permitted in the zone for the purpose of having access to
abutting property when the access cannot conveniently be secured otherwise.
(Ord. 229, passed - -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.11 BUS STOPS.
   (A)   The City Council by resolution may designate spaces on any street in
the city where vehicles engage in carrying passengers for hire shall stand or
park. The City Street and Maintenance Department shall be directed to mark by
appropriate sign any bus stop so established.
   (B)   Except for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers, no driver
of any vehicle other than a bus shall stand or stop at a bus stop.
   (C)   No driver or any bus shall stand or park a bus upon any street except
at a bus stop.
(Ord. 229, passed - -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.12 WINTER PARKING.
   (A)   It is unlawful to park or leave a vehicle standing on any street or
right-of-way between the hours of midnight - 10:00 a.m. after a snowfall of two
or more inches, or when blowing or drifting snow warrant snow plowing.
   (B)   Any police officer is authorized to have a motor vehicle which is
parked in violation of this section removed at the owners' expense. No vehicle
will be released until all towing charges and impound fees have been paid in
full. The City of Lake Crystal does not assume any responsibility for any
damage done during towing or impounding of said vehicle.
(Ord. 229, passed - -2001; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-21-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.13 ESTABLISHMENT OF SAFETY ZONES, LANES OF TRAFFIC AND THE LIKE.
   To assist in the direction and control of traffic, to improve safe driving
conditions at any intersection or dangerous location, and to warn pedestrians
or drivers of motor vehicles of dangerous conditions or hazards, the Chief of
the Police Department may establish safety zones, lanes of traffic and stop
intersections, and he or she may order installation, by the City Street and
Maintenance Department of stop signs, yield signs, warning signs, signals,
pavement markings or other devices. No regulation may be established on a trunk
highway unless the consent of the Commissioner of Transportation is first
secured.
(Ord. 229, passed - -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.14 REMOVING KEYS.
   No person shall leave a motor vehicle, except a truck that is engaged in
loading or unloading, unattended on any street, used car lot or unattended
parking lot without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, and
removing all ignition keys from the vehicle. Whenever any police officer finds
any motor vehicle standing in violation of this provision, he or she shall
remove the keys from the vehicle and deliver them to police headquarters.
(Ord. 229, passed - -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.15 EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to drive any motor vehicle in a manner that results in any of
the following:
   (A)   The tires of a vehicle spin or skid resulting in a squeal or similar
noise;
   (B)   Soil, gravel or sand is thrown by the tires;
   (C)   The vehicle fishtails or skids;
   (D)   Any of the wheels of the vehicle lose contact with the ground;
   (E)   The tires of the vehicle spin causing them to smoke;
   (F)   The careless or heedless disregard of the rights of others;
   (G)   Persons or property are endangered or likely to be endangered,
including the driver or a passenger of the vehicle;
   (H)   Accidents involving property damage or personal injury which were
substantially caused by inattentive or merely negligent driving;
   (I)   Disobedience of a temporary or portable traffic control sign;
   (J)   The failure to bring a motor vehicle to a complete stop in front of a
stop sign, a so-called roll stop;
   (K)   Driving into an intersection after stopping for a stop sign but at a
time when cross traffic has entered the intersection or where another vehicle
is approaching so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard;
   (L)   Excessive acceleration or racing of the vehicle engine or backfiring
the engine;
   (M)   Driving with any part of the body of the driver or a passenger
extending outside the window of the vehicle or above the normal roof line of an
open convertible. This prohibition does not apply to the extension of the
driver’s arm for the purpose of providing legally recognized traffic control
signals; or
   (N)   Driving while a passenger is located on the open tailgate of a station
wagon or pickup or while standing or sitting on the edge of the box of a
pickup.
(Ord. 229, passed - -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.16 POLICE DUTIES.
   (A)   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and
the state traffic laws. Police officers are authorized to direct all traffic
within the city, either in person or by means of visual audible signal, in
conformity with this chapter and the state traffic laws.
   (B)   During a fire or other emergency to expedite traffic or safeguard
pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions
require them notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter and state traffic
laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department may direct or assist the Police
Department in directing traffic at the scene of a fire or in the immediate
vicinity.
(Ord. 229, passed - -2001)
§ 71.17 MISDEMEANOR.
   Unless otherwise declared in this chapter with respect to a particular
offense, it is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required by this chapter.
(Ord. 229, passed - -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS AND MOPEDS
Section
   
72.01   Intent
   
72.02   Definitions
   
72.03   Operation of bicycles
   
72.04   Operation of mopeds and motorized bicycles
   
72.05   Operation of skateboards
   
72.06   Misdemeanor
§ 72.01 INTENT.
   The city finds and declares that the provisions of this chapter are enacted
for the following reasons:
   (A)   To establish safety equipment requirements for the operators of
bicycles, skateboards and mopeds; and
   (B)   To establish regulations governing the operation of bicycles,
skateboards and mopeds on the roadways within the city limits.
(Ord. 180, passed 9-8-1987)
§ 72.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. A device propelled by human power upon which a person may ride
having two tandem wheels either of which is over 14 inches in diameter, or any
device generally recognized as a bicycle though equipped with two front or two
rear wheels or a unicycle.
   MOPED. A motor vehicle (motor-driven cycle) having two wheels in a tandem
arrangement, with pedals to permit propulsion by human power, with a motor with
a displacement of no more than 50 cubic centimeters, which produces no more
than two h.p. and which is not capable of propelling the moped at a speed
greater than 30 mph on level ground, and with a power drive system that
functions directly or automatically without clutching or shifting by the
operator after the drive system is engaged.
   SKATEBOARD. A single platform mounted on wheels which is propelled solely by
human power and which has no mechanism or other device with which to steer or
to control the movement or direction of the platform.
(Ord. 180, passed 9-8-1987)
§ 72.03 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Traffic laws apply. Every person operating a bicycle shall have all of
the rights and duties applicable to the driver of any other vehicle by this
chapter, except in respect to those provisions in this chapter relating
expressly to bicycles and in respect to those provisions of this chapter which
by their nature cannot reasonably be applied to bicycles.
   (B)   Manner and number riding. No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped,
except: on a baby seat attached to the bicycle, provided that the baby seat is
equipped with a harness to hold the child securely in the seat and that
protection is provided against the child’s feet hitting the spokes of the
wheel; or in a seat attached to the bicycle operator.
   (C)   Clinging to vehicles. Persons riding upon any bicycle or skateboard
shall not attach the same or themselves to any vehicle upon a roadway.
   (D)   Riding on roadways.
      (1)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except under any
of the following situations:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a
private road or driveway; and
         (c)   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions, including fixed
or moving objects, vehicles, pedestrians, animals, surface hazards or narrow
width lanes, that make it unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge.
      (2)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast and shall not impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic and,
on a lane roadway, shall ride within a single lane.
      (3)   A person operating a bicycle upon a sidewalk, or across a roadway
on a crosswalk, shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give
an audible signal when necessary before overtaking and passing any pedestrian.
No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business district
unless permitted by local authorities. A person lawfully operating a bicycle on
a sidewalk, or across a roadway on a crosswalk, shall have all the rights and
duties applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances.
   (E)   Carrying articles. No person operating a bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article which prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handle bars or from properly operating the brakes of the bicycle.
   (F)   Bicycle equipment.
      (1)   No person shall operate a bicycle at nighttime unless the bicycle
or its operator is equipped with a lamp which shall emit a white light visible
from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector of a
type approved by the Department of Public Safety which is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
         (a)   No person may operate a bicycle at any time when there is not
sufficient light to render persons and vehicles on the highway clearly
discernible at a distance of 500 feet ahead unless the bicycle or its operator
is equipped with reflective surfaces that shall be visible during the hours of
darkness from 600 feet when viewed in front of lawful lower beams of head lamps
on a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The reflective surfaces shall include reflective materials on
each side of each pedal to indicate their presence from the front or the rear
and with a minimum of 20 square inches of reflective materials on each side of
the bicycle or its operator. Any bicycle equipped with side reflectors as
required by regulations for new bicycles prescribed by the United States
Consumer Product Safety Commission shall be considered to meet the requirements
for side reflectorization contained in this division (F)(1)(b).
      (2)   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a
brake which will enable the operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry,
level, clean pavement.
      (3)   No person shall operate upon a highway any bicycle equipped with
handlebars so raised that the operator must elevate the hands above the level
of the shoulders in order to grasp the normal steering grip area.
      (4)   No person shall operate upon a highway any bicycle which is of such
a size as to prevent the operator from stopping the bicycle, supporting it with
at least one foot on the highway surface and restarting in a safe manner.
   (G)   Turning and lane changes. An arm signal to turn right or left shall be
given continuously during the last 100 feet traveled by the bicycle before
turning, unless the arm is needed to control the bicycle, and shall be given
while the bicycle is stopped waiting to turn.
   (H)   Bicycle parking
      (1)   A person may park a bicycle on a sidewalk. A bicycle parked on a
sidewalk shall not impede the normal and reasonable movement of pedestrian or
other traffic.
      (2)   A bicycle may be parked on a roadway at any location where parking
is allowed if it is parked in such manner that it does not obstruct the
movement of a legally parked motor vehicle.
(Ord. 180, passed 9-8-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 OPERATION OF MOPEDS AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES.
   (A)   The provisions of §
72.03 relating to the operation of bicycles on roadways are applicable to the
operation and the parking of motorized bicycles and mopeds.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle or moped upon a sidewalk
at any time, except when the operation is necessary for the most direct access
to a roadway from a driveway, alley or building.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle or moped shall be subject to the same
requirements as to lighting and brake equipment as applied to motorcycles as
determined by state statute passed under the laws of the state.
(Ord. 180, passed 9-8-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 OPERATION OF SKATEBOARDS.
   (A)   Skateboarding shall be prohibited on any roadway within the city:
having a grade of 6% or more; where the volume or speed of the vehicular
traffic or the width of the roadway renders the roadway unsafe or unsuitable
for skateboarding; and in any portion of this city specifically designated as a
business district which shall be determined by the City Council.
   (B)   Skateboarding shall be prohibited upon any sidewalk in any portion of
this city, where signs have been posted, specifically designated as a business
district which shall be determined by the City Council pursuant to resolution
which may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Skateboard operators on sidewalks and roadways shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicular and all other pedestrian (non-skateboard) traffic upon
the sidewalk or roadway.
   (D)   No more than one person shall operate or ride on a skateboard at one
time.
(Ord. 180, passed 9-8-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 MISDEMEANOR.
   A violation of this chapter shall be considered to be a petty misdemeanor.
In addition, the Chief of the Police Department shall have the authority to
impound a violator’s bicycle, moped or skateboard for a period of not to exceed
30 days; however for a fourth violation of this chapter, the city shall have
the authority to permanently confiscate the violator’s bicycle, moped or
skateboard.
(Ord. 180, passed 9-8-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS
Section
   
73.01   Designated streets
   
73.02   Persons authorized
   
73.03   City employees
   
73.04   Insurance
   
73.05   Permits
   
73.06   Authority
   
73.07   Time of operation
   
73.08   Slow moving vehicle sign
   
73.09   Crossing intersecting highways
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DESIGNATED STREETS.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 169.045, as it may be amended from time to time, certain
persons are authorized to operate motorized golf carts on the streets and
highways dedicated to the public located within the city limits excepting the
following streets and highways: Minnesota Trunk Highway 60; and County State
Aid Highway 20.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-1-2012; Ord. 2017-06, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 73.02 PERSONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Authorization to operate a motorized golf cart is by permit only,
which permit shall be authorized to persons with a valid driver’s license as
defined in M.S. § 171.02, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Authorization to operate a motorized golf cart is by permit only,
which permit shall be authorized to physically handicapped persons as defined
in M.S. § 169.345, Subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   The maximum occupancy of a golf cart shall be one person per seat.
Persons may not ride in or on areas not designated as a seat (e.g., the
baggage/storage area that is typical on most golf carts shall not be used as a
passenger area).
(Ord. 286, passed 10-1-2012; Ord. 2017-06, passed 10-16-2017; Ord. 2017-07,
passed 12-18-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.03 CITY EMPLOYEES.
   City and municipal utility employees are authorized to use a motorized golf
cart on streets and highways when completing duties for the city or municipal
utility.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-1-2012; Ord. 2017-06, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 73.04 INSURANCE.
   Evidence of insurance complying with the provisions of M.S. § 65B.48, Subd.
5, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be required.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-1-2012; Ord. 2017-06, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 73.05 PERMITS.
   Permits shall be granted for a period of not to exceed one year and may be
annually renewed. A permit may be revoked at any time if there is evidence that
the permittee cannot or does not safely operate the motorized golf cart on
designated roadways.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-1-2012; Ord. 2017-06, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 73.06 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The issuing authority for the permit shall be the City Administrator
of the city.
   (B)   The City Administrator may designate the Chief of the Police
Department, or his or her designee, of the city as the investigating entity to
determine whether the permittee may safely operate a motorized golf cart.
   (C)   The City Administrator may require, as a condition of obtaining a
permit, that the applicant submit a certificate signed by a physician that the
applicant is able to safely operate a motorized golf cart on the roadways
designated.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-1-2012; Ord. 2017-06, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 73.07 TIME OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Motorized golf carts may only be operated on designated roadways from
sunrise to sunset.
   (B)   Motorized golf carts shall not be operated during inclement weather or
when visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog or other conditions or at
any time when there is insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles
on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-1-2012; Ord. 2017-06, passed 10-16-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.08 SLOW MOVING VEHICLE SIGN.
   All the motorized golf carts operated pursuant to provisions of this chapter
shall be equipped with a slow moving vehicle sign pursuant to M.S. § 169.522,
as it may be amended from time to time, directional signals and brake lights to
signify turns and the fact that the brakes are being applied as a signal to
following traffic.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-1-2012; Ord. 2017-06, passed 10-16-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.09 CROSSING INTERSECTING HIGHWAYS.
   The operator may under permit of a motorized golf cart safely cross any
street or highway intersecting a designated roadway.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-1-2012; Ord. 2017-06, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-1-2012; Ord. 2017-06, passed 10-16-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 74: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
74.01   Scope of application
   
74.02   Private property
   
74.03   Sidewalks and boulevards
   
74.04   Operation on roadways, public lands and waters
   
74.05   Exceptions
   
74.06   Direct crossings
   
74.07   Hours of operation
   
74.08   Equipment
   
74.09   Unattended snowmobile
   
74.10   Minimum age of operator
§ 74.01 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   Notwithstanding provisions of this chapter to the contrary, this section
shall apply to control of traffic and regulation of that certain class of
vehicles falling within the definition of snowmobiles as to matters set forth
herein. All provisions of this chapter, not relating to matters herein stated,
apply as equally to snowmobiles as other vehicles.
(Ord. 213, passed 1-5-1998)
§ 74.02 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It is a misdemeanor to operate a snowmobile on private property without the
permission or consent of the owner or occupant.
(Ord. 213, passed 1-5-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.03 SIDEWALKS AND BOULEVARDS.
   It is a misdemeanor to operate a snowmobile on a sidewalk or boulevard,
except that a direct crossing may be made in the same manner as provided for
direct crossing of a city street.
(Ord. 213, passed 1-5-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.04 OPERATION ON ROADWAYS, PUBLIC LANDS AND WATERS.
   (A)   Snowmobiles may be operated on roadways, public lands or waters only
as herein specified.
   (B)   It is a misdemeanor to operate a snowmobile upon roadways or public
lands or waters, as follows:
      (1)   At a rate that is reasonable and proper under all the surrounding
circumstances, but in no event, speed in excess of 15 mph;
      (2)   Other than single file on a roadway;
      (3)   Other than at the extreme right-hand side of a roadway;
      (4)   On publicly owned land, including school land, park property,
playgrounds and recreational areas; or
      (5)   Within 100 feet of any church property during church services,
residence, school building, nursing home, skating rink or sliding area, or in
any other area where the operation would conflict or interfere with the normal
use of the property or would endanger persons or property.
      (6)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
person or property of another or to cause injury or damage thereto;
      (7)   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotics or
habit-forming drugs;
      (8)   To tow any person or object except through use of a rigid tow-bar
attached to the rear of the snowmobile;
      (9)   To intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any animal with a
snowmobile; or
      (10)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or
destroys growing stock.
(Ord. 213, passed 1-5-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding the prohibition of operating a snowmobile upon a roadway to
the contrary, the operation is hereby permitted as follows:
   (A)   From the owner’s residence or place of business or place the
snowmobile is generally stored, in a direct route to and from a place of
destination, provided the place of destination is a place that the snowmobile
may be lawfully operated; and
   (B)   In an emergency during the period of time when and at locations where
snow upon the roadway renders travel by automobile impractical.
(Ord. 213, passed 1-5-1998)
§ 74.06 DIRECT CROSSINGS.
   It is a misdemeanor to operate a snowmobile upon a roadway except to make
direct crossing, and only as follows:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the roadway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
   (B)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the roadway;
   (C)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard;
   (D)   In crossing a divided roadway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of the roadway with another public street; or
   (E)   The crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after sunset
to one-half hour before sunrise, or in conditions of reduced visibility, only
if front and rear lights are on.
(Ord. 213, passed 1-5-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.07 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It is a misdemeanor to operate a snowmobile within the city from 10:00 p.m.
to 7:00 a.m., for any purpose other than in going to or return from an evening
ride, except in an emergency, as defined in §
74.05(B).
(Ord. 213, passed 1-5-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.08 EQUIPMENT.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to operate a snowmobile, unless it is
equipped with the following:
   (A)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. No
person shall use a muffler cut out, bypass, straight pipe or similar device on
a snowmobile motor;
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile under any condition of operation;
   (C)   A safety or so-called “deadman” kill switch in “deadman” throttle,
which is defined as a device which, when pressure is removed from the engine
accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be disengaged from the driving
track;
   (D)   When operated between the hours of one-half hour after sunset to one-
half hour before sunrise or at a time of reduced visibility, at least one clear
lamp attached to the front, with sufficient intensity to reveal persons and
vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness
under normal atmospheric conditions. This headlamp shall be so aimed that
glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of an oncoming snowmobile
operator. It shall also be equipped with at least one red tail-lamp having a
minimum candle power of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light plainly
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during hours of darkness under
normal atmospheric conditions; and
   (E)   Reflective materials at least 16 square inches on each side, forward
of the handlebars, so as to reflect light at a 90-degree angle.
(Ord. 213, passed 1-5-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.09 UNATTENDED SNOWMOBILE.
   Every person leaving a snowmobile unattended shall lock the ignition and
remove the key from the ignition and from the snowmobile.
(Ord. 213, passed 1-5-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.10 MINIMUM AGE OF OPERATOR.
   (A)   No person under the age of 14 years shall operate a snowmobile on any
public land or water in the city.
   (B)   A person 14 years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age, may
operate a snowmobile on streets and roadways as permitted under this section,
and make a direct crossing of the streets and roadways only if he or she has in
his or her immediate possession a valid snowmobile safety certificate issued by
the Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources, and then only for
purposes of travel between his or her home (or home location of the snowmobile)
and at a point outside the city, or to an area within the city designated as a
snowmobile area.
   (C)   This travel must be accomplished by the shortest distance, taking the
most direct route while complying with applicable laws.
(Ord. 213, passed 1-5-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits in school zones
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS IN SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   School speed limit zones are established on the following streets:
Watonwan Street between Crystal and Oakland Streets; Oakland Street south to
County State Aid Highway No. 9; Murphy Street between Blue Earth and Prince
Streets; Prince Street between Murphy and Crystal Streets; Crystal Street
between Prince and Watonwan Streets.
   (B)   Upon erection of appropriate signs designating the beginning and the
ending of the speed limit zones, no person shall drive a vehicle within the
zones designated by this schedule in excess of 20 mph when children are
present, going to or leaving school during opening or closing school hours or
during school recess periods.
(Ord. 229, passed - -2001)
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking along East Watonwan Street
SCHEDULE I. PARKING ALONG EAST WATONWAN STREET.
   (A)   Applicability. This schedule shall apply to all vehicles being parked
or intended upon being parked along either side of East Watonwan Street.
   (B)   Purpose. The City Council has enacted this schedule for the purpose of
protecting pedestrians and all residents from vehicle accidents during periods
of vehicle traffic congestion occurring on a regular basis during the school
day.
   (C)   Parking. There shall be no parking or stopping along the south side of
East Watonwan Street, from Main Street easterly to Oakland Street, between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on any regular school day of the Lake Crystal
Wellcome Memorial No. 2071 School District, more specifically, when the Lake
Crystal Wellcome Memorial No. 2071 Elementary School facilities are in session.
   (D)   Police duties. The City Police Department shall enforce the provisions
of this schedule and the state traffic laws. Police officers are authorized to
direct all traffic within the city, either in person or by means of visual
audible signal, in conformity with this schedule and the state traffic laws.
During a fire or other emergency to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions require them
notwithstanding the provisions of this schedule and state traffic laws.
Officers of the Fire Department may direct or assist the Police Department in
directing traffic at the scene of a fire or in the immediate vicinity.
   (E)   Penalty. Unless otherwise declared in this schedule with respect to a
particular offense, any vehicle parked or stopped in violation of any signs,
conditions or requirements of this schedule is declared a misdemeanor, and
subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 277, passed 6-21-2010)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   CEMETERY
      
92.   BURNING
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   PARKS
      
95.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
97.   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY SYSTEMS
      
98.   JUNK VEHICLES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Dogs and cats
   
90.03   Non-domestic animals
   
90.04   Farm animals
   
90.05   Impounding
   
90.06   Kennels
   
90.07   Nuisances
   
90.08   Seizure of animals
   
90.09   Animals presenting a danger to health and safety of city
   
90.10   Diseased animals
   
90.11   Dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs
   
90.12   Dangerous animals (excluding dogs)
   
90.13   Basic care
   
90.14   Breeding moratorium
   
90.15   Enforcing officer
   
90.16   Pound
   
90.17   Interference with officers
   
90.18   Fighting animals
   
90.19   Feeding stray cats and dogs
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
Animals shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, domestic animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non-poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians, and
other similar animals.
      (2)   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, farm
animals shall include members of the equine family (horses, mules), bovine
family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese),
swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, ratitae (ostriches
and emus), farm raised cervidae (caribous and mule deer), llamas and alpacas
and other animals associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
      (3)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, non-domestic animals shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats.
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs.
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet.
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined.
    CAT. Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
   RELEASE PERMIT. A permit issued by the person in charge of the pound for the
release of any animal that has been taken to the pound. A release permit may be
obtained upon payment of a fee to the City Administrator in accordance with the
regular license requirement if the animal is unlicensed, payment of a release
fee, and any maintenance costs incurred in capturing and impounding the animal.
The release fee shall be as established by the City Council as it may be
established.
§ 90.02 DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Running at large prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat
of any person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A
person, who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat which runs at large shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs or cats on a leash and accompanied by a
responsible person or accompanied by and under the control and direction of a
responsible person, so as to be effectively restrained by command as by leash,
shall be permitted in streets or on public land unless the city has posted an
area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats Prohibited.”
   (B)   License required.
      (1)   All dogs over the age of six months kept, harbored, or maintained
by their owners in the city, shall be licensed and registered with the city.
Dog licenses shall be issued by the City Administrator upon payment of the
license fee as set by the City Council from time to time. The owner shall
state, at the time application is made for the license and upon forms provided,
his or her name and address and the name, breed, color, and sex of each dog
owned or kept by him or her. No license shall be granted for a dog that has not
been vaccinated against distemper and rabies, as evidenced by a certificate by
a veterinarian qualified to practice in the state in which the dog is
vaccinated.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of each owner of a dog subject to this section
to pay to the City Administrator the license fee referenced in division (B)(1)
above.
      (3)   Upon payment of the license fee as established above, the
Administrator shall issue to the owner a license certificate and metallic tag
for each dog licensed. The tag shall have stamped on it the year for which it
is issued and the number corresponding with the number on the certificate.
Every owner shall be required to provide each dog with a collar to which the
license tag must be affixed, and shall see that the collar and tag are
constantly worn. In case a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate shall be
issued by City Administrator. A charge shall be made for each duplicate tag in
an amount established above. Dog tags shall not be transferable from one dog to
another and no refunds shall be made on any dog license fee or tag because of
death of a dog or the owner's leaving the city before the expiration of the
license period.
      (4)   The licensing provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to
dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the city, nor to dogs
brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any dog show. If the
animal owned is a service animal which is capable of being properly identified
as from a recognized school for seeing eye, hearing ear, service or guide
animals, and the owner is a blind or deaf person, or a person with physical or
sensory disabilities, then no license shall be required.
      (5)   The funds received by City Administrator from all dog licenses and
metallic tags fees as set by the City Council from time to time, as that
ordinance may be amended from time to time, shall first be used to defray any
costs incidental to the enforcement of this chapter; including, but not
restricted to, the costs of licenses, metallic tags, and impounding and
maintenance of the dogs.
   (C)   Cats. Cats shall be included as controlled by this division insofar as
running-at-large, pickup, impounding, boarding, licensing and proof of anti-
rabies vaccine is concerned. All other provisions of this section shall also
apply to cats unless otherwise provided.
   (D)   Vaccination.
      (1)   All dogs and cats kept harbored, maintained, or transported within
the city shall be vaccinated at least once every three years by a licensed
veterinarian for:
         (a)   Rabies - with a live modified vaccine; and
         (b)   Distemper.
      (2)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept on which is stated the
date of vaccination, owner's name and address, the animal's name (if
applicable), sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine, and the
veterinarian's signature. Upon demand made by the City Administrator, or a
police officer, the owner shall present for examination the required
certificate(s) of vaccination for the animal(s). In cases where certificates
are not presented, the owner or keeper of the animal(s) shall have seven days
in which to present the certificate(s) to City Administrator or officer.
Failure to do so shall be deemed a violation of this section.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   Except as provided in M.S.§ 346.155, as it may be amended from time to time,
it shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor, or offer for sale,
any non-domestic animal within the city. Any owner of a non-domestic animal at
the time of adoption of this code shall have 30 days in which to remove the
animal from the city after which time the city may impound the animal as
provided for in this section. An exception shall be made to this prohibition
for animals specifically trained for and actually providing assistance to the
handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into the city as part of
an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research laboratory, or a
licensed show or exhibition.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 FARM ANIMALS.
   Farm animals shall only be kept in an agricultural district of the city, or
on a residential lot of at least ten acres in size provided that no animal
shelter shall be within 300 feet of an adjoining piece of property. An
exception shall be made to this section for those animals brought into the city
as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
   (A)   Chickens. Chickens are allowed on any lot with a single-family
residence that is issued a permit to do so by the city. The provisions of this
division (A) are intended to regulate the keeping of chickens only. The keeping
of any other types of poultry is prohibited.
      (1)   General requirements; definitions. For the purpose of this section,
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         AT LARGE. A chicken out of its chicken run or not under the custody
and control of the owner.
         CHICKEN.  A female chicken or hen.
         CHICKEN COOP. A structure for housing chickens made of wood or other
similar materials that provides shelter from the elements.
         CHICKEN RUN. An enclosed outside yard for keeping chickens.
         PERSON. The resident, property owner, custodian, or keeper of any
chickens.
         PREMISES. Any platted lot or group of contiguous lots, parcels, or
tracts of land and is located within the city.
            1.   No roosters are permitted. All chickens must be hens. If a
permit holder inadvertently keeps a rooster, then that rooster must be removed
within 24 hours of the date of discovery.
            2.   No more than four chickens may be kept at any one lot at any
time.
            3.   Chicken food is to be kept in containers designed to prohibit
access by rodents and other pests.
            4.   A run or exercise yard conforming to this section is required.
            5.   Dead chickens must be disposed of according to applicable law
and must be removed as soon as possible after death but no later than 24 hours.
            6.   Chicken manure is to be contained in a weather and pest proof
container and removed weekly or composted or used as fertilizer and
incorporated into the soil. Chicken manure must not be allowed to accumulate in
such a way as to cause any unsanitary condition or odors detectible on another
property.
            7.   Chickens kept under this division (A) may not be slaughtered
in public view within the city and eggs are not allowed to be sold at the
premises.
            8.   Chickens must be always confined inside a coop or a fenced in
run and chickens may not be allowed to range freely.
      (2)   Chicken permits.
         (a)   A permit issued by the city is required to keep chickens.
         (b)   The permit application fee shall be set by the City Council.
         (c)   A permit is valid for three years from the date of issuance. The
provisions of this division (A) apply to an approved application for the same
time period, at which time a new permit must be secured.
         (d)   The application must specify the number of chickens anticipated.
         (e)   A permit may only allow between one and four chickens.
         (f)   Only one permit per parcel. If a person wishes to keep chickens
at multiple parcels then that person must obtain a different permit for each
parcel.
         (g)   A permit may only be issued if 75% of the owners of all adjacent
property approve of the application by signing the application form. Adjoining
property means all properties within 50 feet of the proposed location of the
coop and run that the applicant is applying for a permit to keep chickens on.
         (h)   If the applicant is living in a rental property, then the
registered property owner must also sign and approve the application.
         (i)   Permits are non-transferable and do not remain with the
property. If a permit holder moves, they forfeit their permit and must reapply
for their new location with approval of the adjacent property owners as
described in division (A)(2)(g).
         (j)   A permit constitutes a limited license granted to the chicken
keeper by the city and in no way creates a vested zoning right.
         (k)   Site plans and coop designs are to be included with the permit
application.
         (l)   Leg banding of all chickens is required and used to identify
chicken owners.
      (3)   Condition of permit issuance. As a condition of permit issuance,
the applicant is authorizing the city to inspect the chickens and facility
during normal City Hall business hours.
      (4)   Coop and run. Coops and runs must be constructed and maintained to
meet the following minimum standards.
         (a)   A separate coop is required to house the chickens. The coop may
not be attached to or inside any other structure such as a home or garage.
         (b)   Only one coop is permitted per parcel.
         (c)   The coop and run must be located in the rear yard of the
property.
         (d)   The coop must be setback at least five feet from the rear or
side property lines but at no time shall be placed in a utility easement.
         (e)   The coop must be fully enclosed.
         (f)   The coop must have an attached run.
         (g)   The maximum height shall not exceed six feet.
         (h)   The maximum total square area of the coop and run shall not
exceed 120 square feet. Chicken coops are not classified as an accessory
structure under the requirements of the zoning ordinance.
         (i)   Maximum coop size shall not exceed 24 square feet and must have
at least four square feet per chicken.
         (j)   The run size shall not exceed 96 square feet and must have at
least ten square feet per chicken. The run must be fenced in on all sides and
include a roof. The height of the run fence and roof must not exceed six feet.
         (k)   The coop must be at least 24 inches off the ground, or in the
alternative the coop may be placed on a concrete pad.
         (l)   The coop must have sufficiently sized windows to permit natural
light inside. Windows must be able to be opened for ventilation. Sufficient
ventilation and insulation is required.
         (m)   Construction must be done in a workmanlike manner and with
durable material. Coop building materials and exterior colors shall be similar
to or compatible with the primary structure.
         (n)   There must be sufficient moisture drainage to keep the coop well
drained.
         (o)   The coop must be rodent and predator proof. Any door or access
point to the coop or run shall be able to be locked or otherwise secured.
         (p)   Coop designs must meet basic humane needs of chickens including
heat, cooling, food, water, and protection from the elements.
         (q)   The coop must be removed within 30 days if the permit is revoked
or allowed to expire.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Running at large. Any unlicensed animal running at large is hereby
declared a public nuisance. Any police officer may impound any dog or other
animal found unlicensed or any animal found running at large and shall give
notice of the impounding to the owner of the dog or other animal, if known. The
police officer shall not enter the property of the owner of an animal found
running at large or the owner of an unlicensed animal unless the officer has
first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or has obtained a warrant
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal. In case the owner is unknown, the
officer shall post notice at the city office that if the dog or other animal is
not claimed within the time specified in division (C) of this section, it will
be sold or otherwise disposed of. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
it shall be unlawful to kill, destroy, or otherwise cause injury to any animal,
including dogs and cats running at large.
   (B)   Biting animals. Any animal that has not been inoculated by a live
modified rabies vaccine and which has bitten any person, wherein the skin has
been punctured or the services of a doctor are required, shall be confined in
the city pound for a period of not less than ten days, at the expense of the
owner. The animal may be released at the end of the time if healthy and free
from symptoms of rabies, and by the payment of all costs by the owner. However,
if the owner of the animal shall elect immediately upon receipt of notice of
need for the confinement by the officer to voluntarily and immediately confine
the animal for the required period of time in a veterinary hospital of the
owner's choosing, not outside of the county in which this city is located, and
provide immediate proof of confinement in the manner as may be required, the
owner may do so. If, however, the animal has been inoculated with a live
modified rabies vaccine and the owner has proof of the vaccination by a
certificate from a licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or
other animal to the owner's property.
   (C)   Reclaiming. For the purposes of this section regular business day
means a day during which the establishment having custody of the animal is open
to the public at least four consecutive hours between 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with humane treatment and
sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five regular business
days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal as defined under §
90.11 in which case it shall be kept for seven regular business days or the
times specified in §
90.11, and except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal in which case it
shall be kept for ten regular business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their
owners or keepers as provided by this section. In case the owner or keeper
shall desire to reclaim the animal from the pound, the following shall be
required, unless otherwise provided for in this code or established from time
to time by resolution of the City Council:
      (1)   Payment of the release fee and receipt of a release permit as set
by the City
Council from time to time.
      (2)    Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day or
any part of day while animal is in the pound; and
      (3)   If a dog is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee as set by
the City Council from time to time, and valid certificate of vaccination for
rabies and distemper shots is required.
   (D)   Unclaimed animals. At the expiration of the times established in
division (C) of this section, if the animal has not been reclaimed in
accordance with the provisions of this section, the officer appointed to
enforce this section may dispose of the unclaimed animal in a manner permitted
by law. Any money collected under this section shall be payable to City
Administrator.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 KENNELS.
   (A)   Definition. The keeping of three or more dogs or five or more cats on
the same premises for the purposes of breeding, boarding, buying or selling,
whether owned by the same person shall constitute a KENNEL. Excepted from this
definition shall be a fresh litter of pups or kittens, as long as the pups or
kittens are kept for a period of less than three months. In addition, animals
that are owned by a single family and are not kept for the purposes of
breeding, boarding, buying or selling are exempted from this chapter as long as
the owner follows the requirements outlined in division (C) below.
   (B)   Kennels prohibited. Because the keeping of three or more dogs or five
or more cats on the same premises is subject to great abuse, causing discomfort
to persons of the area, by way of smell, noise, hazard, and general aesthetic
depreciation, the keeping of a kennel on the premises is hereby declared to be
a nuisance, and no person shall keep or maintain a kennel within the city. In
addition, no animal owner may keep more than three dogs or five cats without
following the requirements of division (C) below.
   (C)   Special licenses. If an individual or family owns more that three dogs
or more than five cats and they do not breed, board, buy or sell those animals,
then the individual or family may apply to the city for a special permit
allowing them to have more than three dogs or five cats.
      (1)   The city shall require the applicant to fill out an application and
certify the following information:
         (a)   The number of animals that they plan on keeping, if they plan on
having a variable number of animals the application must state the minimum and
maximum number of the animals that are expected;
         (b)   The applicant must certify that the animals are not being kept
for the purposes of breeding, boarding, buying or selling;
         (c)   The property will need to be inspected to ensure that it has
adequate facilities to house the number of animals proposed, and that the
facilities will not cause a nuisance to the neighboring properties or the city
as a whole;
         (d)   The applicant cannot have more than one violation of §
90.06 regarding the property in any period of 12 months;
         (e)   The applicant must not have animals that meet the definition of
a dangerous animal as defined under §
90.07 or state law; and
         (f)   The City Council may set by resolution further restrictions on
the granting of these permits, including locations where they will not be
allowed.
      (2)   The applicant shall apply for the permit on an annual basis on a
form approved by the city. The city may require an extra permit fee as
determined by resolution. All other provisions of this chapter must be followed
by the applicant.
(Ord. 267, passed 7-7-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Habitual barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one
minute of interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner's or
caretaker's premises.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person's dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others or on public property.
   (D)   Warrant required. The police officer shall not enter the property of
the owner of an animal described in this section unless the officer has first
obtained the permission of the owner to do so or has obtained a warrant issued
by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal.
§ 90.08 SEIZURE OF ANIMALS.
   Any police officer may enter upon private property and seize any animal with
the permission of the owner of the property, if that person is also the owner
of the animal, provided that the following exist:
   (A)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer
making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
   (B)   The officer reasonably believes that the animal meets either the
barking dog criteria set out in §
90.07(A); the criteria for cruelty set out in §
90.13; or the criteria for an at large animal set out in §
90.02(A);
   (C)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least one previous
complaint of a barking dog; inhumane treatment of the animal; or that the
animal was at large at this address on a prior date;
   (D)   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of the
animal and the property to be entered and those attempts have either failed or
have been ignored;
   (E)   The police officer shall not enter the property of the owner of an
animal described in this section unless the officer has first obtained the
permission of the owner to do so or has obtained a warrant issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal. If the officer has the permission of
the owner, a property manager, landlord, innkeeper, or other authorized person
to enter the property or has obtained a pass key from a property manager,
landlord, innkeeper, or other authorized person to have that key shall not be
considered unauthorized entry, and a warrant to search for and seize the animal
need not be obtained; and
   (F)   Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the animal is not possible.
§ 90.09 ANIMALS PRESENTING A DANGER TO HEALTH AND SAFETY OF CITY.
   If, in the reasonable belief of any person or the police officer, an animal
presents an immediate danger to the health and safety of any person, or the
animal is threatening imminent harm to any person, or the animal is in the
process of attacking any person, the person or officer may destroy the animal
in a proper and humane manner whether or not the animal is on the property of
its owner. Otherwise, the person or officer may apprehend the animal and
deliver it to the pound for confinement under §
90.05. If the animal is destroyed, the owner or keeper of the animal destroyed
shall be liable to the city for the cost of maintaining and disposing of the
animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examination. If the animal is found
not to be a danger to the health and safety of the city, it may be released to
the owner or keeper in accordance with §
90.05(C).
§ 90.10 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at large. No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or
her premises, or on premises occupied by them, nor permit to run at large in
the city, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and
safety of the city, even though the animal be properly licensed under this
section, and a warrant to search for and seize the animal is not required.
   (B)   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended
and confined in the pound by any person, the a police officer. The officer
shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If the animal is found
to be diseased in a manner so as to be a danger to the health and safety of the
city, the officer shall cause the animal to be painlessly killed and shall
properly dispose of the remains. The owner or keeper of the animal killed under
this section shall be liable to the city for the cost of maintaining and
disposing of the animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examinations.
   (C)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
the animal shall be released to the owner or keeper free of charge.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Adoption by reference. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
the regulatory and procedural provisions of M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.565 (commonly
referred to as the “Dangerous Dog Regulations”), are adopted by reference.
   (B)   Definitions. Definitions in this section shall have the following
meanings:
      (1)   DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
         (a)   Has when unprovoked, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a
human being on public or private property;
         (b)   Has killed a domestic animal when unprovoked while off the
owner's property;
         (c)   Has attacked one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (d)   Has been found to be potentially dangerous and after the owner
has notice of the same, the dog aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   DOG.  Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly
accepted as domesticated household pets.
      (3)   GREAT BODILY HARM. Bodily injury which creates a high probability
of death, or which causes serious permanent disfigurement, or which causes a
permanent or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member
or organ or other serious bodily harm.
      (4)   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, corporation, organization,
department, or association owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, having an
interest in, or having care, custody or control of a dog.
      (5)   MAINTENANCE COSTS. Any costs incurred as a result of seizing an
animal for impoundment, including, but not limited to, the capturing,
impounding, keeping, treating, examining, securing, confining, feeding,
destroying, boarding or maintaining seized animals, whether these services are
provided by the city or the pound.
      (6)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
         (a)   Has when unprovoked, inflicted a bite on a human or domestic
animal on public or private property;
         (b)   Has when unprovoked, chased or approached a person, including a
person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks or any public or private
property, other than the owner's property, in an apparent attitude of attack;
or
         (c)   Has a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      (7)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the dog from escaping
and to provide protection for the dog from the elements. A proper enclosure
does not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other
structure that would allow the dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or
structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the
only barriers which prevent the dog from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow
the egress of the dog in any manner without human assistance. A pen or kennel
shall meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   A minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support post shall be one and one-fourth inch or larger steel pipe
buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided,
the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and openings in the wire shall not exceed two inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches. The gate shall be self-closing and self-locking. The gate shall be
locked at all times when the dog is in the pen or kennel.
      (8)   SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM. Bodily injury that involves a temporary
but substantial disfigurement, or that causes a temporary but substantial loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ or that causes a
fracture of any bodily member.
      (9)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the dog is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (C)   Declaration of dangerous or potentially dangerous dog.
      (1)   A police officer, community service officer, or other authorized
city employee may declare a dog to be dangerous or potentially dangerous when
the officer has probable cause to believe that a dog is dangerous or
potentially dangerous. The following factors will be considered in determining
a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog:
         (a)   Whether any injury or damage to a person by the dog was caused
while the dog was protecting or defending a person or the dog's offspring
within the immediate vicinity of the dog from an unjustified attack or assault.
         (b)   The size and strength of the dog, including jaw strength, and
the animal's propensity to bite humans or other domestic animals.
         (c)   Whether the dog has wounds, scarring, is observed in a fight, or
has other indications that the dog has been or will be used, trained or
encouraged to fight with another animal or whose owner is in possession of any
training apparatus, paraphernalia or drugs used to prepare such dogs to fight
with other animals.
      (2)   Beginning six months after a dog is declared dangerous or
potentially dangerous, an owner may request annually that the city review the
designation. The owner must provide evidence that the dog's behavior has
changed due to the dog's age, neutering, environment, completion of obedience
training or other factors. If enough evidence is provided, the city may rescind
the designation.
      (3)   Exceptions.
         (a)   The provisions of this section do not apply to dogs used by law
enforcement.
         (b)   Dogs may not be declared dangerous or potentially dangerous if
the threat, injury, or danger was sustained by a person who was:
            1.   Committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner of the dog;
            2.   Provoking, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or who
can be shown to have a history of repeatedly provoking, tormenting, abusing, or
assaulting the dog; or
            3.   Committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   (D)   License required. The owner must annually license dangerous and
potentially dangerous dogs with the city and must license a newly declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous dog within 14 days after notice that a dog
has been declared dangerous or potentially dangerous. Regardless of any appeal
that may be requested, the owner must comply with the requirements of M.S. §
347.52(a) and (c) regarding proper enclosures and notification to the city upon
transfer or death of the dog, until and unless a hearing officer or court of
law reverses the declaration.
      (1)   Process for dangerous dogs. The city will issue a license to the
owner of a dangerous dog if the owner presents sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   There is a proper enclosure;
         (b)   Written proof that there is a surety bond by a surety company
authorized to conduct business in Minnesota in the sum of at least $300,000,
payable to any person injured by a dangerous dog, or receipt of a copy of a
policy of liability insurance issued by an insurance company authorized to do
business in Minnesota in the amount of at least $300,000, insuring the owner
for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog. Such surety bond or
insurance policy shall provide that no cancellation of the bond or policy will
be made unless the city is notified in writing by the surety company or the
insurance company at least ten days prior to such cancellation;
         (c)   The owner has paid the annual license fee for dangerous dogs as
set by the City Council from time to time.
         (d)   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and identification number
of the microchip must be provided to the city. If the microchip is not
implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the city at the owner's expense;
and
         (e)   The owner provides proof that the dog has been sterilized. If
the owner does not sterilize the dog within 30 days, the city may seize the dog
and sterilize it at the owner's expense.
      (2)   Process for potentially dangerous dogs. The city will issue a
license to the owner of a potentially dangerous dog if the owner presents
sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   There is a proper enclosure;
         (b)   The owner has paid the annual license fee;
         (c)   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
potentially dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and
identification number of the microchip must be provided to the city. If the
microchip is not implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the city at the
owner's expense.
      (3)   Inspection. A pre-license inspection of the premises to insure
compliance with the city code is required. If the city issues a license to the
owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, the city shall be allowed at
any reasonable time to inspect the dog, the proper enclosure and all places
where the animal is kept.
      (4)   Warning symbol. The owner of a dangerous dog licensed under this
section must post a sign with the uniform dangerous dog warning symbol on the
property in order to inform children that there is a dangerous dog on the
property. The sign will be provided by the city upon issuance of the license.
      (5)   Tags. A dangerous dog licensed under this section must wear a
standardized, easily identifiable tag at all times that contains the uniform
dangerous dog symbol, identifying the dog as dangerous. The tag shall be
provided by the city upon issuance of the license.
      (6)   License fee. The city will charge the owner an annual license fee
for a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog as established in the Ordinance to
Establish Fees and Charges as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Properly restrained in proper enclosure or outside of proper
enclosure. While on the owner's property, an owner of a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog must keep it in a proper enclosure. Inside a
residential home, there must be a secured area maintained where the dog will
stay when persons other than family members are present. If the dog is outside
the proper enclosure, the dog must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial
chain or leash no longer than four feet and under the physical restraint of an
adult. The muzzle must be made in a manner that will prevent the dog from
biting any person or animal but that will not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration.
   (F)   Notification requirements to city.
      (1)   Relocation or death. The owner of a dog that has been declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous must notify City Administrator in writing if
the dog is to be relocated from its current address or if the dog has died. The
notification must be given in writing within 30 days of the relocation or
death. The notification must include the current owner's name and address, and
the new owner's name and the relocation address. If the relocation address is
outside of the city, the city may notify the local law enforcement agency of
the transfer of the dog into its jurisdiction.
      (2)   Renter's obligations. A person who owns or possess a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog and who will rent property from another where the dog
will reside must disclose to the property owner prior to entering the lease
agreement and at the time of any lease renewal periods that the person owns or
possesses a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog that will reside at the
property. A dog owner, who is currently renting property, must notify the
property owner within 14 days of city notification if the owned dog is newly
declared as dangerous or potentially dangerous and the owner keeps the dog on
the property.
      (3)   Transfer of ownership into the city. No dog that has been
previously determined to be dangerous or potentially dangerous by another
jurisdiction shall be kept, owned or harbored in the city unless the dog's
owner complies with the requirements of this section prior to bringing the dog
into the city. Dogs in violation of this division are subject to impoundment
and destruction.
   (G)   Seizure. Animal control may immediately seize any dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog if:
      (1)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous, the dog is not validly licensed and no
appeal has been filed;
      (2)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous,
the owner does not secure the proper liability insurance or surety coverage as
required or such required insurance is cancelled;
      (3)   The dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure;
      (4)   The dog is outside the proper enclosure and not under proper
restraint, as required by §
90.11(E);
      (5)   After 30 days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous,
the dog is not sterilized, as required by §
90.11(D)(1)(e);
      (6)   The dog's microchip has been removed.
   (H)   Reclamation. A dog seized under §
90.11(G) may be reclaimed by the owner of the dog upon payment of maintenance
costs, and presenting proof to animal control that the requirements of this
section have been met. A dog not reclaimed under this division within seven
days may be disposed of and the owner will be liable to the city for
maintenance costs. A person claiming an interest in a seized dog may prevent
disposition of the dog by posting a security in an amount sufficient to provide
for the dog's maintenance costs. The security must be posted with the city
within seven days of the seizure inclusive of the date seized.
   (I)   Subsequent offenses: seizure. If a person has been convicted of
violating a provision of this section, and the person is charged with a
subsequent violation relating to the same dog, the dog may be seized. If the
owner is convicted of the crime for which the dog was seized, the court may
order that the dog be destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the owner pay
the maintenance costs. If the owner is not convicted and the dog is not
reclaimed by the owner within seven days after the owner has been notified that
the dog may be reclaimed, the dog may be disposed of in manner permitted by
law.
   (J)   Notice, hearings.
      (1)   Notice. After a dog has been declared dangerous or potentially
dangerous or has been seized for destruction, the city shall give notice by
delivering or mailing it to the owner of the dog, or by posting a copy of it at
the place where the dog is kept, or by delivering it to a person residing on
the property, and telephoning, if possible. The notice shall include:
         (a)   A description of the seized dog; the authority for and purpose
of the declaration and seizure; the time, place, and circumstances under which
the dog was declared; and the telephone number and contact person where the dog
is kept;
         (b)   A statement that the owner of the dog may request a hearing
concerning the declaration and that failure to do so within 14 days of the date
of the notice will terminate the owner's right to a hearing;
         (c)   A statement that if an appeal request is made within 14 days of
the notice, the owner must immediately comply with the requirements of M.S. §
347.52, paragraphs (a) and (c) regarding proper enclosures and notification to
the city upon transfer or death of the dog, until such time as the hearing
officer issues an opinion;
         (d)   A statement that if the hearing officer affirms the dangerous
dog declaration, the owner will have 14 days from receipt of that decision to
comply with all other requirements of M.S. § 347.51, 347.515, and 347.52;
         (e)   A form to request a hearing; and
         (f)   A statement that if the dog has been seized, all maintenance
costs of the care, keeping, and disposition of the dog pending the outcome of
the hearing are the responsibility of the owner, unless a court or hearing
officer finds that the seizure or impoundment was not reasonably justified by
law.
      (2)   Right to hearing.
         (a)   After a dog has been declared dangerous, potentially dangerous
or has been seized for
destruction, the owner may appeal in writing to the city within 14 days after
notice of the declaration or seizure. Failure to do so within 14 days of the
date of the notice will terminate the owner's right to a hearing. The owner
must pay a $100 fee for an appeal hearing.
         (b)   The appeal hearing will be held within 14 days of the request.
The hearing officer must be an impartial employee of the city or an impartial
person retained by the city to conduct the hearing.
         (c)   If the declaration or destruction is upheld by the hearing
officer, actual expenses of the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000, as well as
all maintenance costs, will be the responsibility of the dog's owner. The
hearing officer shall issue a decision on the matter within ten days after the
hearing. The decision shall be delivered to the dog's owner by hand delivery or
registered mail as soon as practical and a copy shall be provided to the city.
The decision of the hearing officer is final.
   (K)   Destruction of certain dogs. The Chief of the Police Department and/or
hearing officer are authorized to order the destruction or other disposition of
any dog, after proper notice is given pursuant to §
90.11(J) and upon a finding that:
      (1)   The dog has habitually destroyed property or habitually trespassed
in a damaging manner on property of persons other than the owner;
      (2)   The dog has been declared dangerous, the owner's right to appeal
hereunder has been exhausted or expired, and the owner has failed to comply
with the provisions of this section;
      (3)   It is determined that the dog is infected with rabies;
      (4)   The dog inflicted substantial or great bodily harm on a human on
public or private property without provocation;
      (5)   The dog inflicted multiple bites on a human on public or private
property without provocation;
      (6)   The dog bit multiple human victims on public or private property in
the same attack without provocation;
      (7)   The dog bit a human on public or private property without
provocation in an attack where more than one dog participated in the attack; or
      (8)   The dog poses a danger to the public's health, safety or welfare.
In determining whether the dog poses a danger to the public's health, safety or
welfare, the following factors may be considered:
         (a)   The dog weighs more than 20 pounds;
         (b)   The strength of the dog, including jaw strength;
         (c)   The dog's tolerance for pain;
         (d)   The dog's tendency to refuse to terminate an attack;
         (e)   The dog's propensity to bite humans or other domestic animals;
         (f)   The dog's potential for unpredictable behavior;
         (g)   The dog's aggressiveness;
         (h)   The likelihood that a bite by the dog will result in serious
injury.
   (L)   Concealing of dogs. No person may harbor, hide or conceal a dog that
the city has the authority to seize or that has been ordered into custody for
destruction or other proper disposition.
   (M)   Dog ownership prohibited.
      (1)   Except as provided below, a person shall not own a dog if the
person has been:
         (a)   Convicted of a third or subsequent violation of §
90.11(D), (E) or (F) or similar ordinance in another jurisdiction, or M.S. §§
347.51, 347.515 or 347.52;
         (b)   Convicted of 2nd degree manslaughter due to negligent or
intentional use of a dog under M.S. § 609.205(4); or
         (c)   Convicted of gross misdemeanor harm caused by a dog under M.S. §
609.226, Subd. 1.
      (2)   Any person who owns a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog and is
found to be in violation of any of the provisions of this section or had owned
a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog but never achieved compliance with
this section may be prohibited from ownership or custody of another dog for a
period of five years after the original declaration. Any dog found to be in
violation, may be impounded until due process is completed, pursuant to §
90.11(J).
      (3)   If any member of a household is prohibited from owning a dog in §
90.11(M)(1) or (2), unless specifically approved with or without restrictions
by the city, no person in the household is permitted to own a dog.
   (N)   Dog ownership prohibition review. Beginning three years after a
conviction under §
90.11(M)(1) that prohibits a person from owning a dog, and annually thereafter,
the person may request in writing to the Chief of the Police Department that
the city review the prohibition. The city may consider such facts as the
seriousness of the violation or violations that led to the prohibition, any
criminal convictions, or other facts that the city deems appropriate. The city
may rescind the prohibition entirely or rescind it with limitations. The city
also may establish conditions a person must meet before the prohibition is
rescinded, including, but not limited to, successfully completing dog training
or dog handling courses. If the city rescinds a person's prohibition and the
person subsequently fails to comply with any limitations imposed by the city or
the person is convicted of any animal violation involving unprovoked bites or
dog attacks, the city may permanently prohibit the person from owning a dog in
this state.
   (O)   Penalties.
      (1)   Unless stated otherwise, any person who violates a provision of
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person who is convicted of a second or subsequent violation of
any provision of §
90.11(D), (E), or (F) is guilty of a gross misdemeanor.
      (3)   Any person who violates §
90.11(M), whether an owner or household member, is guilty of a gross
misdemeanor.
§ 90.12 DANGEROUS ANIMALS (EXCLUDING DOGS).
   (A)   Attack by an animal. It shall be unlawful for any person's animal to
inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal
whether or not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to dogs as
regulated by §
90.11.
   (B)   Destruction of dangerous animal. The person authorized by the city
shall have the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in
accordance with the terms established by this chapter.
   (C)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any person on public or
private property;
         (b)   Engaged in any attack on any person under circumstances which
would indicate danger to personal safety;
         (c)   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal;
         (d)   Bitten one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (e)   Been found to be potentially dangerous and/or the owner has
personal knowledge of the same, the animal aggressively bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL.  An animal which has:
         (a)   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private
property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack; or
         (c)   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or otherwise
threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (3)   PROPER ENCLOSURE.  Securely confined indoors or in a securely
locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to
provide protection for the animal from the elements. A proper enclosure does
not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure
that would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or
structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the
only barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not
allow the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or
kennel shall meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be 1¼-inch or larger steel pipe buried in the
ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided, the sidewalls
shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
      (4)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (D)   Designation as potentially dangerous animal. The person authorized by
the city shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon
receiving evidence that the potentially dangerous animal has, when unprovoked,
then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or a domestic
animal as stated in division (C)(2). When an animal is declared potentially
dangerous, the person authorized by the city shall cause one owner of the
potentially dangerous animal to be notified in writing that the animal is
potentially dangerous.
   (E)   Evidence justifying designation. The person authorized by the city
shall have the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon
receiving evidence of the following:
      (1)   That the animal has, when unprovoked, bitten, attacked, or
threatened the safety of a person or domestic animal as stated in division (C)
(1).
      (2)   That the animal has been declared potentially dangerous and the
animal has then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (C)(1).
   (F)   Authority to order destruction. The person authorized by the city,
upon finding that an animal is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as
part of the disposition of the case, that the animal be destroyed based on a
written order containing one or more of the following findings of fact:
      (1)   The animal is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning or multiple attacks; or
      (2)   The owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or
other animals.
   (G)   Procedure. The person authorized by the city, after having determined
that an animal is dangerous, may proceed in the following manner: The person
authorized by the city shall cause one owner of the animal to be notified in
writing or in person that the animal is dangerous and may order the animal
seized or make orders as deemed proper. This owner shall be notified as to
dates, times, places and parties bitten, and shall be given 14 days to appeal
this order by requesting a hearing before the City Council for a review of this
determination.
      (1)   If no appeal is filed, the person authorized by the city shall
obtain an order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the
animal from a court of competent jurisdiction, unless the animal is already in
custody or the owner consents to the seizure and destruction of the animal.
      (2)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council, which shall set a date for hearing not more than three weeks after
demand for the hearing. The records of the Animal Control or 90.’s office shall
be admissible for consideration by the person authorized by the city without
further foundation. After considering all evidence pertaining to the
temperament of the animal, the City Council shall make an order as it deems
proper. The City Council may order that the person authorized by the city take
the animal into custody for destruction, if the animal is not currently in
custody. If the animal is ordered into custody for destruction, the owner shall
immediately make the animal available to the person authorized by the city. If
the owner does not immediately make the animal available, the person authorized
by the city shall obtain an order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the
destruction of the animal from a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   No person shall harbor an animal after it has been found by to be
dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.
   (H)   Stopping an attack. If any police officer or person authorized by the
city is witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the
officer may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the
attack to an end and prevent further injury to the victim.
   (I)   Notification of new address. The owner of an animal which has been
identified as dangerous or potentially dangerous shall notify the person
authorized by the city in writing if the animal is to be relocated from its
current address or given or sold to another person. The notification shall be
given in writing at least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of
ownership. The notification shall include the current owner's name and address,
the relocation address, and the name of the new owner, if any.
   (J)   Dangerous animal requirements.
      (1)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction of
an animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
         (a)   That the owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as specified in §
90.12(C)(3);
         (b)   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly visible
warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that there is a
dangerous animal on the property;
         (c)   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance in
the minimum amount of $300,000;
         (d)   If the animal is outside the proper enclosure, the animal must
be muzzled (if physically possible depending on the type of animal) and
restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to exceed six feet in length)
and under the physical restraint of a person 16 years of age or older. The
muzzle must be of a design as to prevent the animal from biting any person or
animal, but will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or
respiration;
         (e)   The animal shall have a microchip implant as provided by M.S. §
347.515, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (f)   All animals deemed dangerous by the person authorized by the
city shall be registered with the county in which this city is located within
14 days after the date the animal was so deemed and provide satisfactory proof
thereof to the person authorized by the city.
         (g)   If the animal is a cat or ferret, it must be up to date with
rabies vaccination.
      (2)   Seizure. As authorized by M.S. § 347.54, as it may be amended from
time to time, the person authorized by the city shall immediately seize any
dangerous animal if the owner does not meet each of the above requirements
within 14 days after the date notice is sent to the owner that the animal is
dangerous. Seizure may be appealed to district court by serving a summons and
petition upon the city and filing it with the district court.
      (3)   Reclaiming animals. A dangerous animal seized under §
90.12(J)(2), may be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon payment of
impounding and boarding fees and presenting proof to animal control that each
of the requirements under §
90.12(J)(1), is fulfilled. An animal not reclaimed under this section within 14
days may be disposed of as provided under §
90.12(F), and the owner is liable to the city for costs incurred in confining
and impounding the animal.
   (D)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently
violated the provisions under §
90.12 with the same animal, the animal must be seized by animal control. The
owner may request a hearing as defined in §
90.12(G). If the owner is found to have violated the provisions for which the
animal was seized, the person authorized by the city shall order the animal
destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the costs of
confining the animal. If the person is found not to have violated the
provisions for which the animal was seized, the owner may reclaim the animal
under the provisions of §
90.12(J)(3). If the animal is not yet reclaimed by the owner within 14 days
after the date the owner is notified that the animal may be reclaimed, the
animal may be disposed of as provided under §
90.12(F) and the owner is liable to the animal control for the costs incurred
in confining, impounding and disposing of the animal.
§ 90.13 BASIC CARE.
   (A)   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind treatment,
housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their comfort. Any
person not treating their pet in a humane manner will be subject to the
penalties provided in this section.
   (B)   Dogs and cats. Dogs and cats must be provided the following basic
care.
      (1)   Food. Dogs and cats must be provided with food of sufficient
quantity and quality to allow for normal growth or the maintenance of body
weight. Feed standards shall be those recommended by the National Research
Council.
      (2)   Water. Dogs and cats must be provided with clean, potable water in
sufficient quantity to satisfy the animal's needs or supplied by free choice.
Snow or ice is not an adequate water source.
      (3)   Transportation and shipment. When dogs or cats are transported in
crates or containers, the crates or containers must be constructed of
nonabrasive wire or a smooth, durable material suitable for the animals. Crates
and containers must be clean, adequately ventilated, contain sufficient space
to allow the animals to turn around, and provide maximum safety and protection
to the animals. Exercise for 20 to 30 minutes and water must be provided at
least once every eight hours. Food must be provided at least once every 24
hours or more often, if necessary, to maintain the health and condition of the
animals.
      (4)   Shelter size. A confinement area must provide sufficient space to
allow each animal to turn about freely and to easily stand, sit, and lie in a
normal position. Each confined animal must be provided a minimum square footage
of floor space as measured from the tip of its nose to the base of its tail,
plus 25%, expressed in square feet. The formula for computing minimum square
footage is: (length of animal plus 25%) times (length of animal plus 25%),
divided by 144. A shaded area must be provided sufficient to protect the animal
from the direct rays of the sun at all times during the months of May to
October.
      (5)   Exercise. All dogs and cats must be provided the opportunity for
periodic exercise, either through free choice or through a forced work program,
unless exercise is restricted by a licensed veterinarian.
      (6)   Group housing and breeding. Animals housed together must be kept in
compatible groups. Animals must not be bred so often as to endanger their
health.
      (7)   Temperature. Confinement areas must be maintained at a temperature
suitable for the animal involved.
      (8)   Ventilation. An indoor confinement area must be ventilated. Drafts,
odors, and moisture condensation must be minimized. Auxiliary ventilation, such
as exhaust fans, vents, and air conditioning, must be used when the ambient
temperature rises to a level that may endanger the health of the animal.
      (9)   Lighting. An indoor confinement area must have at least eight hours
of illumination sufficient to permit routine inspection and cleaning.
      (10)   Confinement and exercise area surfaces. Where applicable, the
interior surfaces of confinement and exercise areas, including crates or
containers, must be constructed and maintained so that they are substantially
impervious to moisture and may be readily cleaned. They must protect the animal
from injury and be kept in good repair.
      (11)   Drainage. Where applicable, a suitable method must be used to
rapidly eliminate excess fluids from confinement areas.
      (12)   Sanitation. Food and water receptacles must be accessible to each
animal and located so as to minimize contamination by excreta. Feeding and
water receptacles must be kept clean. Disposable food receptacles must be
discarded when soiled. Measures must be taken to protect animals from being
contaminated with water, wastes, and harmful chemicals. Wastes must be disposed
of properly. Where applicable, flushing methods and a disinfectant must be used
periodically. Bedding, if used, must be kept clean and dry. Outdoor enclosures
must be kept clean and base material replaced as necessary.
   (C)   Birds, rodent other animals. Basic care provided to pet and companion
animal birds, rodents and other shall be consistent with M.S. § 346.40, §
346.41 and § 346.42, as those statutes may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Dogs and cats in motor vehicles.
      (1)   Unattended dogs or cats. A person may not leave a dog or a cat
unattended in a standing or parked motor vehicle in a manner that endangers the
dog's or cat's health or safety.
      (2)   Removal of dogs or cats. A peace officer, as defined in M.S. §
626.84, as it may be amended from time to time, a humane agent, a dog warden,
or a volunteer or professional member of a fire or rescue department of the
city may use reasonable force to enter a motor vehicle and remove a dog or cat
which has been left in the vehicle in violation of (D)(1). A person removing a
dog or a cat under this division shall use reasonable means to contact the
owner of the dog or cat to arrange for its return home. If the person is unable
to contact the owner, the person may take the dog or cat to an animal shelter.
   (E)   Dog houses. A person in charge or control of any dog which is kept
outdoors or in an unheated enclosure shall provide the dog with shelter and
bedding as prescribed in this section as a minimum.
      (1)   Building specifications. The shelter shall include a moisture proof
and windproof structure of suitable size to accommodate the dog and allow
retention of body heat. It shall be made of durable material with a solid,
moisture proof floor or a floor raised at least two inches from the ground.
Between November 1 and March 31 the structure must have a windbreak at the
entrance. The structure shall be provided with a sufficient quantity of
suitable bedding material consisting of hay, straw, cedar shavings, blankets,
or the equivalent, to provide insulation and protection against cold and
dampness and promote retention of body heat.
      (2)   Shade. Shade from the direct rays of the sun, during the months of
May to October shall be provided.
      (3)   Farm dogs. In lieu of the requirements of (E)(1) and (E)(2), a dog
kept on a farm may be provided with access to a barn with a sufficient quantity
of loose hay or bedding to protect against cold and dampness.
§ 90.14 BREEDING MORATORIUM.
   Every female dog or female cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
other enclosure in a manner that it cannot come in contact with another dog or
cat except for planned breeding. Upon capture and failure to reclaim the
animal, every dog or cat shall be neutered or spayed prior to being transferred
to a new owner.
§ 90.15 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Council is hereby authorized to appoint a person(s) to enforce the
provisions of this section. In that person's duty of enforcing the provisions
of this section, he or she may from time to time, with the consent of the City
Council, designate assistants.
§ 90.16 POUND.
   Every year the Council shall designate an official pound to which animals
found in violation of this chapter shall be taken for safe treatment, and if
necessary, for destruction.
§ 90.17 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder, or interfere with any person
authorized by the City Council to capture dogs, cats or other animals and
convey them to the pound while engaged in that operation. Nor shall any
unauthorized person break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or take or
attempt to take from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in compliance
with this chapter, or in any other manner to interfere with or hinder the
officer in the discharge of his or her duties under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 FIGHTING ANIMALS.
   (A)   The provisions of M.S. § 343.31, as it may be amended from time to
time, are adopted herein by reference.
   (B)   No person shall:
      (1)   Promote, engage in, or be employed in the activity of cockfighting,
dogfighting, or violent pitting of one pet or companion animal as defined in
M.S. § 346.36, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time, against another
of the same or a different kind;
      (2)   Receive money for the admission of a person to a place used, or
about to be used, for that activity;
      (3)   Willfully permit a person to enter or use for that activity
premises of which the permitter is the owner, agent, or occupant; or
      (4)   Use, train, or possess a dog or other animal for the purpose of
participating in, engaging in, or promoting that activity.
      (5)   Purchase a ticket of admission or otherwise gain admission to the
activity of cockfighting, dogfighting, or violent pitting of one pet or
companion animal against another of the same or a different kind.
§ 90.19 FEEDING STRAY CATS AND DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   FEED or FEEDING means the placing of dog or cat food, or similar
food products or consumable materials attractive to dogs and cats, which may
result in dogs and cats congregating thereon on a regular basis, placed on the
ground, in an obviously intended feeder, or in a feeder at a height accessible
to cats and dogs.
      (2)   STRAY means an unlicensed domestic or feral dog or cat running at
large and unaccompanied or controlled by an owner.
   (B)   Policy and purpose. High populations of stray dogs and cats pose a
hazard to human health and safety, as such animals provide a fruitful breeding
ground for infectious disease, including but not limited to rabies and
distemper, and may otherwise bite or attack humans and domestic animals. In
addition, food provided for stray animals is often attractive to wild animals
such as raccoons and rodents and may create nuisance conditions such as a rat
harborage or other wild animal infestation.
   (C)   No person shall feed or allow the feeding of any stray cat or dog
within the city.
   (D)   Exceptions. Veterinarians and persons who, acting within the scope of
their employment with any governmental entity non-profit, or humane society has
custody of or manages stray dogs and cats are not subject to the prohibitions
of this section.
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Separate offenses. Each day a violation of this chapter is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable under this section.
   (B)   Misdemeanor. Unless otherwise provided, violation of this chapter
shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
10.99.
   (C)   Petty misdemeanor. Violations of §§
90.02,
90.07,
90.13 and
90.14 are petty misdemeanors punishable as provided in §
10.99.
   (D)   Violations.
      (1)   Any person who commits, causes, permits, or allows a violation of
the provisions of §
90.04(A) shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor punishable by a fine up to
$300.
      (2)   If a permit holder has two convictions under this division (D)
within any three-year permit period, then that permit shall be revoked. Upon
revocation, all chickens must be removed from the property within 48 hours.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed - - )
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERY
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Establishment
   
91.03   Sale of lots and spaces
   
91.04   Conditions of lot and space purchase
   
91.05   Transfer of lots and spaces
   
91.06   Perpetual Care Fund
   
91.07   Burial fees
   
91.08   Handling of funds
   
91.09   Burial permits
   
91.10   Interments
   
91.11   Burial vaults
   
91.12   Disinterment and removal
   
91.13   Cemetery Superintendent; duties
   
91.14   Monuments and markers; foundations
   
91.15   Installation of monuments and markers
   
91.16   Decoration of lots
   
91.17   General regulations
   
91.18   Hours
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   BURIAL PERMIT. Legal written permission for burial to occur.
   CEMETERY. A tract of land used for burials.
   CITY. The City of Lake Crystal, Minnesota, owning and controlling the
cemetery.
   INTERMENT. Disposition of human remains or cremains by burial.
   MARKER. A memorial of granite or other approved material that does not
extend above the surface of the lawn.
   MAUSOLEUMS. An external free-standing building enclosing the interment space
or burial chamber of a deceased person or persons.
   MEMORIAL. A monument, marker bench, or large urn (marked or unmarked).
   MONUMENT. A memorial of granite or other approved material that extends
above the surface of the lawn.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.02 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   A cemetery has been established and will continue upon land owned by
the city. This cemetery shall be described as the Lake Crystal City Cemetery.
The location of the cemetery is set forth in Ord. 74 and that description is
adopted by reference and a part hereof as if appearing in total.
   (B)   No person or entity shall lay out or establish any cemetery, or use
any parcel of land within the city limits of the city for the burial of the
dead, except for the Lake Crystal City Cemetery, or some other parcel of land
that has been duly designated as a cemetery by ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.03 SALE OF LOTS AND SPACES.
   The prices of cemetery lots, spaces and services will be set by resolution
of the City Council. Any person paying for a lot or space is entitled to a deed
conveying the lot or space. A deed conveying a lot or space gives the purchaser
only the right of burial therein and shall be considered as a license that
restricts the use to burial purposes.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.04 CONDITIONS OF LOT AND SPACE PURCHASE.
   All lot and space agreements are subject to reasonable rules and regulations
as the City Council may adopt relative to the use of the cemetery. No lot or
space shall be used for any purpose other than the burial of human remains and
the placing of memorials as permitted by this chapter or any additional
regulation that the City Council may provide.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.05 TRANSFER OF LOTS AND SPACES.
   Cemetery lots and spaces may be resold or gifted with the approval of the
City Council and a new property deed will be issued.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.06 PERPETUAL CARE FUND.
   The full purchase price of the sale of each space shall be placed in a fund
designated as the Lake Crystal Cemetery Trust Fund, and the interest or income
therefrom shall be used solely for the purpose of the care and maintenance of
the lot so purchased, and that under no circumstances shall the principal sum
thereof be used for any other purpose whatsoever and shall be put in a
perpetual fund and the income therefrom used for the care and maintenance of
the lot as herein stated.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.07 BURIAL FEES.
   The fee for burials shall be in an amount as set by the City Council from
time to time.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.08 HANDLING OF FUNDS.
   All money received from the sale of lots, spaces and other services must be
paid to the City Treasurer. No cemetery service shall be performed until
verification of ownership is completed. All money received from the sale of
lots and spaces and donations to the cemetery shall be placed in the Perpetual
Care Fund. All money received from performance of burial services and other
cemetery fees so established by the City Council shall be placed in the city
General Fund.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.09 BURIAL PERMITS.
   Before any interment, a burial permit or death certificate shall be
presented from the funeral home, State Registrar of Vital Statistics. No
interment shall be made unless the city is notified and a copy of such burial
permit is filed with the city. No permit shall be granted for above ground
burials or use of mausoleums.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.10 INTERMENTS.
   (A)   Permission in writing from a lot or space owner must accompany all
requests for permission to bury bodies of persons that are not members of the
immediate family of the lot or space owner. Prior to interment, the excavator
shall contact the city for staking of the appropriate lot or space. No
interment may be made in the cemetery unless all laws, ordinances, rules, and
regulations regarding interments have been complied with and until purchase
price of the lot or space and all burial fees are paid.
   (B)   Any damage resulting from interments, whether on the same lot, space
or surrounding area or cemetery grounds will be the responsibility of the
excavator and must be repaired to city satisfaction within a reasonable period
of time.
   (C)   Above ground burials and the use of mausoleums are not permitted.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.11 BURIAL VAULTS.
   All caskets must be encased in a permanent type burial case or vault.
Fiberglass vaults are prohibited.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.12 DISINTERMENT AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Before any grave may be opened, written permission of the lot or space
owner or the next of kin shall be filed with the City Administrator, a permit
from the county health officer shall be secured and presented, and the required
fees paid. This provision does not apply when disinterment is ordered by a duly
authorized public authority.
   (B)   The city shall assume no liability for damage to any casket or burial
case in making the disinterment and removal.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.13 CEMETERY SUPERINTENDENT; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Street and Maintenance Superintendent shall serve as the Cemetery
Superintendent, unless otherwise appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   The Cemetery Superintendent shall have control and management thereof,
and of the maintenance and improvement of the grounds.
   (C)   He or she shall have powers and duties as are prescribed by law or by
the city code.
      (1)   He or she shall keep the grounds, walks and streets in order and
free from obstructions.
      (2)   He or she shall have charge of all interments made in the cemetery
and shall hire and supervise all labor.
      (3)   He or she shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and of all
regulations adopted by the Council for the government of the cemetery.
      (4)   He or she shall require the exhibition to him or her of a properly
executed burial permit before allowing any interment to take place in the
cemetery.
      (5)   He or she shall have charge of the digging of all graves in the
cemetery; every grave for an adult shall be at least five feet deep and for a
child at least four feet deep.
      (6)   He or she, or the city's designee, shall keep a complete record of
the ownership of all lots and spaces in the cemetery; and for this purpose it
shall be the duty of every purchaser of such a lot or space, either from the
city direct or from a person who has previously bought from the city, to
exhibit the original conveyance by which he or she claims title to the lot or
space to the Cemetery Superintendent.
      (7)   He or she, or the city's designee, shall keep a record of all
interments in the cemetery showing the exact location of every grave, the name,
sex, age, time, place and cause of death of the person buried therein, and the
date of burial.
      (8)   He or she shall prevent any burial in any lot or space until the
city shall have been paid for the lot or space; and he or she shall also
prevent the interment of any body in any lot or space without the consent of
the person recorded as owner of the lot or space in his or her records and may
require the consent to be in writing.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.14 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS; FOUNDATIONS.
   (A)   All monuments and markers placed in the cemetery shall be of bronze,
granite or marble, and no vertical joints therein shall be permitted.
   (B)   All foundations for monuments and markers must be of sufficient depth
and stability to support the proposed monuments or markers.
   (C)   No monument or marker may be erected until the foundation therefore
has been approved by the Cemetery Superintendent.
   (D)   The city has numbered lots and grave spaces in the Lake Crystal City
Cemetery. Lots are numbered consecutively by cemetery section. Grave spaces are
numbered 1 through 8. Grave spaces 1 through 4 are the four westerly spaces.
Grave spaces 5 through 8 are the four easterly spaces. The city will have on
hand a cemetery map indicating the numbers of lots and grave spaces. The
cemetery map prepared by the city will govern all lot and grave space
numbering.
   (E)   The headstone grave spaces of a lot, spaces 1, 2, 3 and 4, may have a
traditional upright monument or marker above the ground or a flat/flush ground
monument or marker. The monument or marker shall be placed on a concrete
foundation large enough to have one and one-half inch holes for a plant stand
and suitable sized holes for veteran/auxiliary stakes. The monument or marker
and cement foundation must stay within the grave space and not extend into
another grave space or alleyway. A headstone monument or marker shall be placed
at the head of the grave space, readable looking east.
   (F)   The footstone grave spaces of a lot, spaces 5, 6, 7 and 8, must have a
flat/flush ground monument or marker. The monument or marker shall be placed on
a concrete foundation large enough to have one and one-half inch holes for a
plant stand and suitable sized holes for veteran/auxiliary stakes. The monument
or marker and cement foundation must stay within the grave space and not extend
into another grave space or alleyway. A footstone monument or marker shall be
placed at the foot of the grave space, readable looking east.
   (G)   If there is more than one monument or marker on any space (1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7, 8) of any lot such as a cremation burial, the second monument or
marker must be a flat/flush in the ground monument or marker with a concrete
foundation over the burial site. An upright monument or marker is permitted
only in the headstone location of spaces 1, 2, 3 and 4. All burial spaces,
regular in size and with no obstructions, are limited to three cremation
burials.
   (H)   Military or other official brass markers may be attached to the back
side of a headstone upright monument or marker or as a flat/flush in the ground
monument or marker with a concrete foundation. The monument or marker shall be
located within the grave space and not extend into another grave space or
alleyway.
   (I)   The Cemetery Superintendent shall provide a copy of this section to
all persons interested in or in the process of purchasing lots or spaces in the
Lake Crystal City Cemetery.
   (J)   This section applies to all persons currently holding cemetery lot or
cemetery grave space deeds, but does not apply to those previously erected
monuments or markers that were erected in conformity with the earlier version
(s) of this particular section.
   (K)   This section applies to any future sale of a cemetery lot or cemetery
grave space.
   (L)   The city reserves the right, without notice, to make exceptions,
suspensions or modifications of any part of this section when in the judgment
of the Cemetery Superintendent it appears advisable, but in no way affects the
general application of this section.
   (M)   The city will permit the Cemetery Superintendent to allow persons to
change lots or grave spaces if this chapter section adversely affects them in a
manner that they believe is not appropriate.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.15 INSTALLATION OF MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   (A)   Upon placement of an order for a monument, the lot or space owner or
monument salesperson shall contact the city to identify the lot or space to be
used.
   (B)   Persons engaged in erecting monuments and other structures shall be
responsible for proper design and layout of said monument or structure.
   (C)   Scattering of materials on adjoining lots, or leaving materials on the
ground longer than absolutely necessary is prohibited. Any damages occurring
during the installation and/or placement must be repaired at the expense of the
sales company or lot or space owner.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.16 DECORATION OF LOTS.
   (A)   The ground planting of flowers, plants, shrubs or trees by the lot or
space owner is not permitted. The city shall have the authority to remove all
floral designs, flowers, weeds, trees, shrubs, plants or herbage of any kind,
if in the judgment of the Cemetery Superintendent, they do not conform to the
standards maintained and policy adopted. Any existing trees, shrubs or plants
that are already on lots, should they die, shall not be replaced. These
existing plants will be removed if they become a menace to other sites,
pedestrians or create an unpleasant atmosphere or to allow for excavation of an
adjoining grave.
   (B)    The placing of glass containers or tin cans of any kind are not
permitted.
   (C)   The city reserves the right to remove all monuments, markers, flowers,
plants, trees, decorations, or other similar things without liability to the
owner whenever any of these objects become unsafe, unsightly, dangerous,
detrimental, diseased or when they do not conform to the standards maintained
or policy adopted.
   (D)   All monuments and washes must have a one-inch hole drilled for a
flower stand.
   (E)   Flowers and decorations in planters or pots or those attached as part
of the marker or stone are allowed during any time of the year. Other
decorations, not prohibited by other sections of the policy shall be allowed to
be placed on the grave site no sooner than one week prior to Memorial Day and
will be allowed to remain no longer than one week following Memorial Day.
Decorations not removed during the allowed time will be removed and disposed
of.
   (F)   The loss or disposal of any flowers or decorations will not be the
responsibility of the city.
   (G)   Special ornamentation is allowed during funerals but must be removed
within five days. If these are not removed by the date, the ornamentation will
be removed and disposed of and the city will not be liable for such loss.
   (H)   Lot or space owners shall not change the grade of any lot or space nor
interfere with the general plan of the improvement of the cemetery in any way.
   (I)   Fences are not permitted within the cemetery.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.17 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any firearms or have possession of any
firearm within the cemetery grounds, except in case of military funerals and on
Memorial Day, without the written permission of the Cemetery Superintendent.
   (B)   No grave will be opened except by order of the husband, wife, father,
mother, son or daughter of the deceased, and then only for good cause, and the
city reserves the right to refuse any request. This provision does not apply
when disinterment is ordered by a duly authorized public official.
   (C)   No person shall remove any object from any place in the cemetery or
make any excavation without the written consent of the Cemetery Superintendent
or his or her assistant.
   (D)   All rubbish, unsightly material or debris accumulating from any work
or any cause, must be removed at once by the person or persons causing its
accumulation. All derricks, tools and the like must also be removed at once and
the grounds left in as good condition as found.
   (E)   No person shall obstruct any drive or path in the cemetery or in any
way injure, deface or destroy any stone structure, grave, flower, tree, shrub,
vine or any other thing in the cemetery.
   (F)   If any object or structure, or any part of any structure within the
cemetery shall be deemed to be objectionable or to have become objectionable or
unsightly, the Cemetery Superintendent shall have the right to remove the same.
   (G)   No person shall drive any vehicle faster than a walk within the
cemetery, nor drive over any path or roadway prohibited by the Cemetery
Superintendent.
   (H)   No person may disturb the quiet of the cemetery by noise or improper
conduct of any kind.
   (I)   No person may enter or leave the cemetery except at the entrances
provided.
   (J)   No person may use the cemetery grounds or any road therein as a public
thoroughfare, nor drive any vehicle through the cemetery grounds except for
purposes relating to the cemetery.
   (K)   No child shall be permitted within the cemetery unless in the control
of an adult.
   (L)   Animals must not be allowed to run at large and must be under control
at all times.
   (M)    Fishing is not allowed within the cemetery.
   (N)   Snowmobiles are not allowed within the cemetery.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.18 HOURS.
   The cemetery is accessible to anyone every day, dawn to dusk.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to fines as set by the court.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-20-2017)
CHAPTER 92: BURNING
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Recreational fire
   
92.03   Open burning prohibited
   
92.04   Exemptions
   
92.05   Rules adopted by reference
   
92.06   Violation; reimbursement
   
92.07   Authority of Police Department
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPEN FIRE or OPEN BURNING. A fire burning in a manner, whether concentrated
or dispersed, which is not contained within a fully enclosed fire box,
structure or container, and from which the products of combustion are emitted
directly to the open atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or
chimney.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set for cooking, warming, recreational or
ceremonial purposes, which is not more than three feet in diameter by three
feet high, and has had the ground five feet from the base of the fire cleared
of all combustible material.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted wood or charcoal fire starter.
Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as STARTER FUELS and as aids to
ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas burning devices causing
minimal pollution must be used to start an open fire.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, “Pres-to-Logs”,
charcoal, cordwood or untreated dimensional lumber. WOOD does not include wood
that is green, with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked or treated with
paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for recreational fires
when cut to three-foot lengths.
(Ord. 228, passed - -2001)
§ 92.02 RECREATIONAL FIRE.
   (A)   Recreational fire site requirements. An area of no more than a three-
foot diameter circle (measured from the inside of the fire ring or border);
completely surrounded by non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing
material, either of natural rock, cement, brick, tile or block of ferrous metal
only and which area is depressed below ground, or on a raised bed. Included are
permanent outdoor wood burning fireplaces. Recreational fire sites shall not be
located closer than 25 feet to any structure. Burners are not a recreational
fire site as defined herein.
   (B)   Recreational fire burn requirements. An area of no more than a three-
foot diameter circle (measured from the inside of the fire ring or border);
completely surrounded by non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing
material, either of natural rock, cement, brick, tile, or block of ferrous
metal only and which area is depressed below ground, or on a raised bed.
Included are permanent outdoor wood burning fire places. Recreational fire
sites shall not be located within any required side yard setback, utility
easement, public right-of-way and closer than ten feet to any property line and
25 feet to any structure. Burners are not a recreational fire site as defined
herein.
(Ord. 228, passed - -2001; Ord. 305, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 92.03 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as herein otherwise provided, open burning shall be prohibited
within the city.
   (B)   The use of burners or burn barrels for burning vegetative matter is
prohibited.
(Ord. 228, passed - -2001)
§ 92.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   Open burning of the types and subject to the conditions, as hereinafter
stated, shall be exempt from the prohibition of §
92.03:
   (A)   Recreational fires;
   (B)   Fires under managed supervision for which a burning permit has been
obtained where required by law, from the Department of Natural Resources, but
limited to the following:
      (1)   Fires purposely set for the instruction and training of public and
industrial firefighting personnel;
      (2)   Fires set for the elimination of a fire hazard which cannot be
abated by any other practicable means; and/or
      (3)   Fires purposely set for forest and game management purposes.
   (C)   Exemption to conduct fires under this section does not excuse a person
from the consequences, damages or injuries which may result therefrom nor does
it exempt any person from regulations promulgated by the State Pollution
Control Agency or any other governmental unit exercising jurisdiction in mattes
of pollution or fire hazard regulation; and
   (D)   Mobile cooking devices such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills,
wood smokers and propane or natural gas devices.
(Ord. 228, passed - -2001)
§ 92.05 RULES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   M.S. §§ 88.02 through 88.22, 88.75, 88.76, as they may be amended from time
to time, and the State Fire Code are hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this chapter as if fully set forth at this point.
(Ord. 228, passed - -2001; Ord. 263, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 92.06 VIOLATION; REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be punished by §
10.99.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty provided under division (A) above, the City
and Fire or Police Departments may seek reimbursement of any costs, either
through restitution in a criminal proceeding or in a separate civil proceeding,
that are incurred as a result of the violation of this chapter or enforcement
of this chapter.
(Ord. 228, passed - -2001)
§ 92.07 AUTHORITY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   This chapter will provide the Police Department with authority to put out
any fires that are deemed to be in violation of this chapter. The officer shall
act with all reasonable care and if in their discretion it would be unsafe for
them to put out the fire, that they will call the Fire Department to dispose of
the fire in the safest manner possible.
(Ord. 228, passed - -2001)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances Generally
   
93.01   Public nuisance prohibition
   
93.02   Public nuisances affecting health
   
93.03   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
93.04   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
93.05   Noise violations
   
93.06   Nuisance parking and storage
   
93.07   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
93.08   Duties of city officers
   
93.09   Abatement procedure
   
93.10   Recovery of cost
Dutch Elm Disease
   
93.35   Declaration of policy
   
93.36   Forester
   
93.37   Dutch elm disease program
   
93.38   Nuisances declared
   
93.39   Inspection and investigation
   
93.40   Abatement of Dutch elm disease nuisances
   
93.41   Procedure for removal of infected trees and wood
   
93.42   Spraying elm trees
   
93.43   Transporting elm wood prohibited
   
93.44   Interference prohibited
   
93.45   Misdemeanor
Growth of Weeds, Grass, Brush and Other Vegetation
   
93.60   Cutting and removal of grass, weeds and other rank, poisonous or
harmful vegetation
   
93.61   Duty of owner, lessee or occupant
   
93.62   When city to do work
   
93.63   Violation
 
   
93.99   Penalty
NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 93.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE PROHIBITION.
   A person must not act, or fail to act, in a manner that is or causes a
public nuisance. For purpose of this chapter, a person that does any of the
following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures,
or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage, any
public highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or this chapter to be a
public nuisance.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 9-21-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   The exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulation of manure, refuse, or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight,
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste, or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 93.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines, and punch boards, except
otherwise authorized and permitted by federal, state, or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking, and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame, and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating or 3.2 malt liquor is manufactured or
disposed of in violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are
permitted to resort, for the purpose of drinking intoxicating or 3.2 malt
liquor, or where intoxicating or 3.2 malt liquor is kept for sale or other
disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and other property used for
maintaining that place; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating or
3.2 malt liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or
illegal purpose.
(Ord. 2020-14, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 93.04 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice that is not removed from public sidewalks within 24
hours after the snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to
fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees that are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   Any person participating in any party or other gathering that causes
the unreasonable disturbing of the peace, quiet, or repose of another person in
such a manner as to be plainly audible at the boundary of the real property,
building, structure, or residence from which the noise originates, or at a
distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise. PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as
sound that can be detected by a person using their unaided hearing faculties;
   (E)   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations;
   (F)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds, except under conditions as are
permitted by this chapter or other applicable law;
   (G)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (H)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk that causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (I)   All hanging signs, awnings, and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated as to endanger public safety, or not constructed and
maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (J)   The allowing of rainwater, ice, or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (K)   Any barbed wire fence located less than six feet above the ground and
within three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (L)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (M)   Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other public
properties;
   (N)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other materials in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes, or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health, or other
safety hazards from such accumulation;
   (O)   Any well, hole, or similar excavation that is left uncovered or in
such other condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person
coming on the premises where it is located;
   (P)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter, or ditch with trash or other materials;
   (Q)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk, or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, or other substances that may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over such
substance;
   (R)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (S)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and one footcandle when
abutting any commercial or industrial parcel;
   (T)   All other conditions or things that are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of another.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 93.05 NOISE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited noises. The following are declared to be nuisances
affecting public health, safety, peace, or welfare:
      (1)   Any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or
welfare of any person, or precludes their enjoyment of property, or affects
their property’s value in such a manner as to be plainly audible at the
boundary of the real property, building, structure, or residence from which the
noise originates, or at a distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise.
(This general prohibition is not limited by any specific restrictions provided
in this section.) PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as sound that can be detected by a
person using their unaided hearing faculties;
      (2)   All obnoxious noises, motor vehicle or otherwise, in violation of
Minn. Rules, Ch. 7030, as they may be amended from time to time, are hereby
incorporated into this section by reference;
      (3)   The use of any vehicle so out of repair or so loaded as to create
loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise;
      (4)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharge of the
exhaust of any statutory internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle (ATV), snowmobile, or any recreational device,
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
      (5)   Any loud or excessive noise in the loading, unloading, or unpacking
of any vehicle;
      (6)   The use or operation, or permitting the use or operation, of any
radio receiving set, television set, musical instrument, music device, paging
system, machine, or other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a
distinctly and loudly audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet, and
comfort of any person nearby;
   (B)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
      (1)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill, or
other similar domestic power equipment,
except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday, weekend or
holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this provision.
      (2)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or refuse
in any residential district, except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m.
      (3)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
commercial construction activities involving the use of any kind of diesel or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment, except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
      (4)   Radios, music devices, paging systems, and the like. The operation
of any device referred to in division (A)(6) above between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line
of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50
feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of a violation of this section.
   (C)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person applying
for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any structure,
operation, process, installation, alteration, or project that may be considered
a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a form
prescribed by the Council. The Council shall evaluate each such statement and
take its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or
permit applied for or the zoning changes requested.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 93.06 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies, or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it:
      (1)   Obstructs views on streets and private property;
      (2)   Creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas;
      (3)   Prevents the full use of residential streets for residential
parking;
      (4)   Introduces commercial advertising signs into areas where commercial
advertising signs are otherwise prohibited;
      (5)   Decreases adjoining landowners’ and occupants’ use and enjoyment of
their property and neighborhood; and
      (6)   Otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood
patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of ice fishing houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses, or other similar non-
permanent structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front
yard area of residential property unless more than 100 feet back from the front
property line;
      (2)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery, or similar materials, including all
materials used in conjunction with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by a fence;
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit, or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements:
         (a)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be
parked or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of nonresidential characteristics of
the property. The maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional guests
who do not reside on the property.
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front yard
areas must be on a paved or graveled parking surface or driveway area.
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft, and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away from school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 93.07 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Any motor vehicle described in this section
shall constitute a hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of the
community as such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter and
breeding ground for vermin, and present physical danger to the safety and well-
being of children and citizens. Motor vehicles also contain various fluids
which, if released into the environment, can and do cause significant health
risks to the community.
   (B)   Inoperable motor vehicles. It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store,
or abandon any motor vehicle that is not in operating condition, partially
dismantled, used for repair of parts or as a source of repair or replacement
parts for other vehicles, kept for scrapping, dismantling, or salvage of any
kind, or which is not properly licensed for operation within the state,
pursuant to M.S. § 168B.011, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Screening. This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in
a building and/or kept out of view from any street, road, or alley, and which
does not foster complaint from a resident of the city. Privacy fencing is
permissible.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 93.08 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   City officials may apply and enforce any provision of this chapter relating
to public nuisances within this jurisdiction. Any peace officer or other
designated city official shall have the power to inspect private premises and
take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance of
public nuisances. Except in emergency situations of imminent danger to human
life and safety, no peace officer or designated city official will enter
private property for the purpose of inspecting or preventing public nuisances
without the permission of the owner, resident, or other person in control of
the property, unless the officer or person designated has obtained a warrant or
order from a court of competent jurisdiction authorizing entry.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 93.09 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Procedure. Whenever the peace officer or other designated official
determines that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises
in the city, the official shall notify in writing the owner of record and
occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be terminated
or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be taken to abate
the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be abated. If the
notice of violation is not complied with within the time specified, the
official shall report that fact forthwith to the City Council. Thereafter, the
City Council may, after notice to the owner and occupant and an opportunity to
be heard, determine that the condition identified in the notice of violation is
a nuisance and further order that if the nuisance is not abated within the time
prescribed by the City Council, the city may seek injunctive relief by serving
a copy of the City Council order and notice of motion for summary enforcement
or obtain an administrative search and seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
   (B)   Notice. Written notice of the violation; notice of the time, date,
place, and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of the City
Council order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be
served by a peace officer or designated official on the owner of record and
occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered mail.
If the premise is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or if the owner
of record or occupant refuses to accept notice, notice of the violation shall
be served by positing it on the premises.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the procedure and notice requirements
as set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of this section will permit a continuing
nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health, safety, or welfare, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with
summary enforcement, the peace officer or other designated official shall
determine that a public nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in
the city and that delay in abatement will unreasonably endanger public health,
safety, or welfare. The officer or designated official shall notify in writing
the occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance, whether
public health, safety, or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in
abatement required to complete the procedure set forth in division (A) of this
section and may order that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If
the nuisance is not immediately terminated or abated, the City Council may
order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition that
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
   (E)   Unlawful parties or gatherings. When law enforcement determines that a
gathering is creating such a noise disturbance as prohibited under §
93.04(D), the officer may order all persons present, other than the owner or
tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disburse
immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by
law enforcement. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has knowledge of
the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance
is stopped.
   (F)   Judicial remedy. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from
seeking a judicial remedy when no other adequate administrative remedy exists.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 9-21-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of the premises on which a nuisance has
been abated by the city, or a person who has caused a public nuisance on
property not owned by that person, shall be personally liable for the cost to
the city of the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work
has been completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk or other city
official shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon
the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City
Clerk.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk shall,
on or before September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list the
total unpaid charges along with all other such charges as well as other charges
for current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101 against each separate
lot or parcel to which the charges are attributable. The City Council may then
spread the charges against the property under that statute and any other
pertinent statutes for certification to the county auditor and collection along
with current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding
ten, as the City Council may determine in each case.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 9-21-2020)
DUTCH ELM DISEASE
§ 93.35 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   The City Council has determined that the health of the elm trees
within the municipal limits is threatened by a fatal disease known as Dutch elm
disease.
   (B)   It has further determined that the loss of elm trees growing upon
public and private property would substantially depreciate the value of
property within the city and impair the safety, good order, general welfare and
convenience of the public.
   (C)   It is declared to be the intention of the Council to control and
prevent the spread of this disease and this subchapter is enacted for that
purpose.
(Ord. 144, passed - -1975)
§ 93.36 FORESTER.
   (A)   Position created. The powers and duties of the city forester as set
forth in this subchapter are hereby conferred upon the person who shall be duly
appointed by the City Council as such forester.
   (B)   Duties of forester. It is the duty of the forester to coordinate,
under the direction and control of the Council, all activities of the
municipality relating to the control, and prevention of Dutch elm disease. He
or she shall recommend to the Council the details of a program for the control
of Dutch elm disease, and perform the duties incident to such a program adopted
by the Council.
(Ord. 144, passed - -1975)
§ 93.37 DUTCH ELM DISEASE PROGRAM.
   It is the intention of the Council of the city to conduct a program of plant
pest control pursuant to all the powers of this municipal corporation including
the authority granted by M.S. § 18.88, as it may be amended from time to time.
This program is directed specifically at the control and elimination of Dutch
elm disease fungus and elm bark beetles and is undertaken at the recommendation
of the Commissioner of Agriculture. The city forester shall act as coordinator
between the Commissioner of Agriculture and the Council in the conduct of this
program.
(Ord. 144, passed - -1975)
§ 93.38 NUISANCES DECLARED.
   (A)   The following things are public nuisances whenever they may be found
within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch elm disease fungus Ophiostoma Ulmi, also known as
Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau or which harbors any of the elm bark beetles
Scolytus Multistriafus (Eichh) or Hylurgopinus Rufipes (Marsh); and
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including legs, branches,
stumps, firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed
and burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to permit any public nuisance as defined
in division (A) above to remain on any premises owned or controlled by him or
her within the city. These nuisances may be abated in the manner prescribed by
this subchapter.
(Ord. 144, passed - -1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.39 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Annual inspection. The forester shall inspect all premises and places
within the city as often as practicable to determine whether any condition
described in §
93.38 exists thereon. He or she shall investigate all reported incidents of
infestation by Dutch elm fungus or elm bark beetles.
   (B)   Entry on private premises. The forester or his or her duly authorized
agents may enter upon private premises at any reasonable time for the purpose
of carrying out any of the duties assigned him or her under this subchapter.
   (C)   Diagnosis. 
      (1)   The forester shall, upon finding conditions indicating Dutch elm
infestation, immediately send appropriate specimens or samples to the
Commissioner of Agriculture for analysis, or take other steps for diagnosis as
may be recommended by the Commissioner.
      (2)   Except as provided in §
93.41, no action to remove infected trees or wood shall be taken until positive
diagnosis of the disease has been made.
(Ord. 144, passed - -1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.40 ABATEMENT OF DUTCH ELM DISEASE NUISANCES.
   (A)   In abating the nuisances defined in §
93.38, the forester shall cause the infected tree or wood to be sprayed,
removed, burned or otherwise effectively treated so as to destroy and prevent
as fully as possible the spread of Dutch elm disease fungus and elm bark
beetles.
   (B)   The abatement procedures shall be carried out in accordance with
current technical and expert opinions and plans as may be designated by the
Commissioner of Agriculture.
(Ord. 144, passed - -1975)
§ 93.41 PROCEDURE FOR REMOVAL OF INFECTED TREES AND WOOD.
   (A)   Whenever the forester finds with reasonable certainly that the
infestation defined in §
93.38 exists in any tree or wood in any public or private places in the city,
he or she shall proceed as follows:
      (1)   If the forester finds that the danger of infestation of other elm
trees is not imminent because of elm dormancy, he or she shall make a written
report of his or her finding to the Council, which shall proceed by:
         (a)   Abating the nuisance as a public improvement under M.S. Ch. 429,
as it may be amended from time to time; or
         (b)   Abating the nuisance as provided in division (B) below.
      (2)   If the forester finds that danger of infestation of other elm trees
is imminent, he or she shall notify the abutting property owner by certified
mail that the nuisance will be abated within a specified time, not less than
five days from the date of mailing of the notice. The forester shall
immediately report that action to the Council, and after the expiration of the
time limited by the notice he or she may abate the nuisance.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the forester’s report required by division (A)(1)
above, the Council shall by resolution order the nuisance abated. Before action
is taken on the resolution, the Council shall publish notice of its intention
to meet to consider taking action to abate the nuisance. This notice shall be
mailed to affected property owners and published once no less than one week
prior to the meeting. The notice shall state the time and place of the meeting,
the streets affected, action proposed, the estimated cost of the abatement, and
the proposed bases of assessment, if any, of costs. At the hearing or
adjournment thereof, the Council shall hear property owners with reference to
the scope and desirability of the proposed project. The Council shall
thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the original resolution with
modifications as it considers desirable and provide for the doing of the work
by day labor or by contract.
   (C)   The forester shall keep a record of the costs of abatements done under
this section and shall report monthly to the City Administrator all work done
for which assessments are to be made, stating and certifying the description of
the land lots, parcels involved and the amount chargeable to each.
   (D)   On or before September 1 of each year, the Administrator shall list
the total unpaid charges for each abatement against each separate lot or parcel
to which they are attributable under this subchapter. The Council may then
spread the charges or any portion thereof against the property involved as a
special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time, and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and
collection the following year along with current taxes.
(Ord. 144, passed - -1975)
§ 93.42 SPRAYING ELM TREES.
   (A)   Whenever the forester determines that any elm tree or elm wood within
the city is infected with Dutch elm fungus, he or she may spray or treat all
nearby high value elm trees, with an effective elm bark beetle destroying
concentrate or fungicide or both. Activities authorized by this section shall
be conducted in accordance with technical and expert opinions and plans of the
Commissioner of Agriculture and under the supervision of the Commissioner and
his or her agents whenever possible.
   (B)   The notice provisions of §
93.41 apply to spraying and treatment operations conducted under this section.
(Ord. 144, passed - -1975)
§ 93.43 TRANSPORTING ELM WOOD PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to transport within the city any bark-
bearing elm wood without having obtained a permit from the forester.
   (B)   The forester shall grant the permits only when the purposes of this
subchapter will be served thereby.
(Ord. 144, passed - -1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.44 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
forester or his or her agents while they are engaged in the performance of
duties imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 144, passed - -1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.45 MISDEMEANOR.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §§
93.44 or
93.45 is guilty of a misdemeanor, and may be punished as prescribed in §
10.99.
(Ord. 144, passed - -1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
GROWTH OF WEEDS, GRASS, BRUSH AND OTHER VEGETATION
§ 93.60 CUTTING AND REMOVAL OF GRASS, WEEDS AND OTHER RANK, POISONOUS OR
HARMFUL VEGETATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person having control of any occupied or
unoccupied lot or land or any part thereof in the city to permit or maintain on
any such lot or land, or on or along the sidewalk, street or alley adjacent to
the same between the property line and the curb or middle of the alley or for
ten feet outside the property line if there be no curb, any growth of weeds,
grass, brush or other rank vegetation to a greater height than 12 inches on the
average, or any accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any such person or persons to cause,
suffer or allow poison ivy, ragweed or other poisonous plants, or plants
detrimental to health to grow on any such lot or land in a manner that any part
of the ivy, ragweed or other poisonous or harmful weed shall extend upon,
overhang or border any public place or allow to seed, pollen or other poisonous
particles or emanations therefrom to be carried through the air into any public
place.
(Ord. 145, passed - -1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.61 DUTY OF OWNER, LESSEE OR OCCUPANT.
   It shall be the duty of any owner, lessee or occupant of any lot or land to
cut and remove or cause to be cut and removed all the weeds, grass, brush or
other rank, poisonous or harmful vegetation as often as may be necessary to
comply with the provisions of §
93.60; provided, that cutting and removing the weeds, grass and vegetation at
least once in every three weeks, between May 15 and September 15 shall be
deemed to be a compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 145, passed - -1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.62 WHEN CITY TO DO WORK.
   (A)   If the provision of the foregoing sections are not complied with the
city shall serve written notice upon the owner, lessee or occupant or any
person having the care or control of any such lot or land to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   If the person upon whom the notice is served fails, neglects or
refuses to cut and remove or to cause to be cut and removed the weeds, grass,
brush or other vegetation within five days after receipt of the notice, or if
no person can be found in the city who either is or claims to be the owner of
the lot or land, or who either represents or claims to represent the owner, the
city shall cause the weeds, grass, brush and other vegetation on the lot or
land to be cut and removed and the actual cost of the cutting and removal, plus
5% for inspection and other additional costs in connection therewith, shall be
certified by the city to the property and shall thereupon become and be a lien
upon the property on which the weeds, grass, brush and other vegetation were
located and shall be added to and become and form part of the taxes next to be
assessed and levied upon the lot or land and shall bear interest at the same
rate as taxes and shall be collected and enforced by the same officer and in
the same manner as taxes.
(Ord. 145, passed - -1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.63 VIOLATION.
   Any person who shall neglect to cut and remove weeds, grass, brush or other
vegetation as directed in this subchapter, or who shall fail, neglect or refuse
to comply with the provisions of any notice herein provided or who shall
violate any of the provisions of this subchapter, or who shall resist or
obstruct the city or his or her employees in the cutting and removal of weeds,
grass, brush and other vegetation, shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject
to §
10.99, and each day on which the violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 145, passed - -1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000 or
imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both, plus the costs of prosecution
in either case.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 9-21-2020)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS
Section
Public Boat Landing of Robinson Park
   
94.01   Scope of application
   
94.02   Use of city docks
   
94.03   Vehicle parking
   
94.04   Misdemeanor
Rules and Regulations for City Parks
   
94.15   Definitions
   
94.16   Duties and powers of City Council
   
94.17   Rules and regulations
   
94.18   Animal and plant life
   
94.19   Motor vehicles
   
94.20   Water
   
94.21   Beer, wine and liquor
   
94.22   Audio devices
   
94.23   Parades, entertainment, public meetings
   
94.24   Glass beverage containers
   
94.25   Prohibited activities
   
94.26   Misdemeanor
PUBLIC BOAT LANDING OF ROBINSON PARK
§ 94.01 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this subchapter, this subchapter shall
apply to the use of city docks and the parking of vehicles in the boat landing
area of Robinson Park.
(Ord. 237, passed 7-7-2003)
§ 94.02 USE OF CITY DOCKS.
   This section shall establish the use of the city docks, including the
floating fishing dock, in the boat landing area of Robinson Park.
   (A)   Persons, other than those using watercraft using the docks, shall
yield the right-of-way to watercraft users both during the unloading, docking
and loading of watercraft; users of watercraft shall use the docks on a first-
come first-serve basis.
   (B)   The parking of watercraft on the docks shall be limited to five
minutes.
   (C)   No swimming or diving is allowed off the docks, including the floating
fishing dock.
   (D)   No use of bicycles, skate boards, roller blades or other similar
equipment is allowed on the docks.
   (E)   Persons using the docks are to respect the rights of those around
them.
   (F)   Persons using the docks in a manner endangering those around them will
be asked to leave the area.
(Ord. 237, passed 7-7-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 VEHICLE PARKING.
   This section shall establish the guidelines for vehicle parking in the boat
landing area of Robinson Park.
   (A)   Parking on the hard surface area, asphalted surface, is limited to
vehicles with attached watercraft trailers only.
   (B)   Vehicles without attached watercraft trailers will be allowed to park
in crushed rock or gravel access areas.
   (C)   There is no parking on the grass areas.
   (D)   There is no parking in front of or near the dock and watercraft
loading and unloading areas.
(Ord. 237, passed 7-7-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 MISDEMEANOR.
   Any person violating the provisions of this subchapter shall be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 237, passed 7-7-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR CITY PARKS
§ 94.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEER. 3.2% malt liquor as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, Subd. 19, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   LIQUOR. Ethyl alcohol, distilled, fermented, spiritous and malt beverages
containing in excess of 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   PARK. Any lot, yard, area or place within the city which has been dedicated
to or purchased by the city and which is devoted, designated or intended for
purposes of using the same for active or passive recreation, leisure and/or
sporting activities.
   WINE. Any fermented vinous beverage containing in excess of 3.2% of alcohol
by weight.
(Ord. 160, passed - -1980)
§ 94.16 DUTIES AND POWERS OF CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Public parks shall be closed during the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 6:00
a.m. and the City Police Department or other law enforcement officers may take
whatever steps necessary to remove persons located within public parks during
those hours. It is specifically intended to proscribe loitering or lingering
within public parks during closed hours although to allow normal foot traffic
for pedestrians who are en route to their destinations by the shortest or most
convenient routes.
   (B)   The City Council is hereby empowered to issue and promulgate
regulations as may be necessary by resolution from time to time for the
protection and proliferation of wild animals and birds and their natural
habitat within public parks. In addition, the City Council shall, as the
Council may from time to time direct, make improvements within the parks as may
be beneficial to foster and encourage the proliferation of wild animals and
birds in the park and the enjoyment thereof by the public.
(Ord. 160, passed - -1980)
§ 94.17 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to violate any posted regulation, sign or
direction which may from time to time be promulgated by authority of the
Council.
(Ord. 160, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.18 ANIMAL AND PLANT LIFE.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, tease, shoot or throw
missiles at any animal or bird in any park or public place or within 100 feet
thereof;
   (B)   To remove or have in possession any nest, eggs or young of any animal
or bird in the park, or found nesting within 100 feet of any park or public
land;
   (C)   To give, offer, feed or attempt to give or feed, any animal or bird in
any park or public land, or within 100 feet thereof, any harmful or noxious
substance;
   (D)   To pick, cut or otherwise harm or destroy the natural grasses, reeds
or other plant life providing habitat for wild animals or birds in or around
any park or public land;
   (E)   To allow or permit any dog or cat within any park except dogs
assisting visually impaired persons or dogs accessing or utilizing the “dog
park area” of Jaycee Park; or
   (F)   Damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree or plant, or injure
the bark, or pick the flowers or seeds, of any tree or plant. A person shall
not dig in or otherwise disturb grass areas, or in any other way injure or
impair the natural beauty or usefulness of any park.
(Ord. 160, passed - -1980; Ord. 278, passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.19 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate, ride in or on, or control
the operation of any motor vehicle/all-terrain vehicle, motorcycle or
snowmobile in any park except on paths or roadways specifically designated for
that use, and in any event motor vehicles shall not be operated in Robinson
Park between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. This does not refer to the
docking of boats, pontoons or canoes at designated areas.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner or legal possessor of any vehicle
described in this section to knowingly allow another to operate the vehicle in
any park.
(Ord. 160, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.20 WATER.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to swim or wade in, or to travel in any
boat or other flotation device in any park, except in areas designated for
those purposes.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to walk, ice skate or otherwise traverse
upon the frozen surface of a body of water in any park where it has been sign-
posted that the frozen surface is unsafe.
(Ord. 160, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.21 BEER, WINE AND LIQUOR.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person while in any park to transport, possess
or consume liquor, beer or wine in a single container which contains or has the
capacity to contain more than one gallon, or beer in quantity packages of more
than one case without first having obtained a permit from the city.
   (B)   All permits for purposes of this section may be issued by the City
Council, upon recommendation of the Chief of the Police Department.
   (C)   The permits shall specify the conditions under which the permit is
issued and shall include the following information:
      (1)   The park to which the permit pertains;
      (2)   The date on which the permit will be valid;
      (3)   The person or persons to whom the permit is issued;
      (4)   The type and quantity of beverage to which the permit pertains; and
      (5)   Any other conditions or restrictions that the City Council shall
deem necessary to adequately provide for the public welfare and safety.
   (D)   A permit will not be required for any persons issued a temporary
license to sell beer by the City Council.
(Ord. 160, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.22 AUDIO DEVICES.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate or play any musical instrument,
radio, television, record or tape player, loud speaker, public address system
or sound amplifying equipment of any kind in any park in such a manner that the
sound emanating therefrom substantially interferes with the reasonable use of
the park by others or substantially disturbs the residents of adjacent property
without the written permission of the City Council. The written permission
shall only be given if the operation of the audio device will not be
detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of the residents of the
city.
(Ord. 160, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.23 PARADES, ENTERTAINMENT, PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   It is unlawful for any processions, parades, pageants, ceremonies,
exhibitions, celebrations, training exercises, entertainment, to take place in
any park, except with written permission of the City Council, which shall also
be subject to additional regulations as the Council may prescribe. The written
permission shall only be given if the public gathering will not be detrimental
to the health, safety or general welfare of the residents of the city.
(Ord. 160, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.24 GLASS BEVERAGE CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring into or possess any glass
beverage container in any park or recreation area.
(Ord. 168, passed 9-12-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.25 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   The following activities shall be prohibited. No private docks, boat lifts
or similar structures shall be allowed in the public waters or attached to the
shoreline of any parkland located within the city, nor any property used in
conjunction with a cemetery. All docks, boat lifts and similar structures
abutting or extending from public property other than the above shall be
governed by regulations and rules promulgated by the City Council.
(Ord. 188, passed 8-6-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.26 MISDEMEANOR.
   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 160, passed - -1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Proper alarm systems operation and maintenance
   
95.03   Informational sheet
   
95.04   User fees
   
95.05   Confidentiality of records
   
95.06   Intentional false alarm
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. A device or system that emits, transmits or relays a signal
intended to summon or that would reasonably be expected to summon public safety
services of the city. For the purpose of this section, ALARM SYSTEM does not
include an alarm installed on a vehicle unless the vehicle is permanently
located at a site.
   ALARM USER. The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind that uses an alarm system to protect its premises,
regardless of whether it owns or leases the system.
   CALENDAR YEAR. The period from January 1 through December 31 of each year.
   FALSE ALARM. Any activation of an alarm system that results in a response by
public safety personnel where an emergency does not exist. FALSE ALARM
includes, but is not limited to, activation of an alarm system by the alarm
user of the alarm user’s employee or agents. FALSE ALARM does not include alarm
activation caused by utility company power outages, by climatic conditions such
as unusually strong winds or lightning, or by any other conditions that are
clearly beyond the control of the alarm manufacturer, installer and user. FALSE
ALARM does not include activation of an alarm system as the result of an effort
or order to upgrade, install, test or maintain the system if the County Law
Enforcement Dispatch and, where applicable, the central monitoring agency for
the alarm system are each notified before the work on the alarm system.
(Ord. 241, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 95.02 PROPER ALARM SYSTEMS OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Maintenance. The alarm user shall maintain the alarm system and
premises in a manner that will minimize or eliminate false alarms.
   (B)   Key holder response. The alarm user or a designated representative
shall appear at the alarm system location within a reasonable period of time
when notified by the County Law Enforcement Dispatch or City Police Department
to deactivate a malfunctioning alarm system or to provide access to the
premises. Inability to reach an alarm user’s representative is a failure to
respond.
   (C)   Exterior alarms. Alarm systems with exterior audible signals shall be
set so that the exterior signal will not sound for more than ten minutes after
the alarm has been activated.
(Ord. 241, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 95.03 INFORMATIONAL SHEET.
   Each alarm user shall file with the County Law Enforcement Dispatch and the
City Police Department an informational sheet established by City Public Safety
personnel with information as may be required.
(Ord. 241, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 95.04 USER FEES.
   (A)   Any alarm user that produces a false alarm and does not have an
informational sheet on file as provided in §
95.03 shall be charged a user fee per false alarm of an amount set by City
Council resolution.
   (B)   Fees charged per calendar year and per false alarm shall be set by
City Council resolution.
   (C)   Alarm user fees must be paid to the city within 30 days from the date
of written notice by the city to the alarm user. Fees under appeal pursuant to
division (E) below must be paid within five days’ written notice of denial of
appeal or within 30 days of original written notice, whichever is greater. Fees
not paid within the time specified will be subject to a 10% penalty charge.
   (D)   All delinquent charges shall be certified to the city, who shall
prepare an assessment roll providing for assessment of the delinquent amounts
against the respective properties. This assessment roll shall be delivered to
the Council for adoption in the manner provided by law. The action may be
optional or subsequent to taking legal action to collect delinquent accounts.
   (E)   An alarm user charged with an alarm user fee may make a written appeal
of the false alarm charge to the City Administrator within 15 days’ notice of
the charge. The City Administrator will make the final determination whether
the appeal will be upheld or denied.
(Ord. 241, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 95.05 CONFIDENTIALLY OF RECORDS.
   All information and statistics collected and maintained in the
administration of this section shall be deemed nonpublic data and security
information exempt from disclosure pursuant to state statute.
(Ord. 241, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 95.06 INTENTIONAL FALSE ALARM.
   No person shall intentionally cause a false alarm. A violation of this
section shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 241, passed 6-7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Construction, repairing and condemnation of sidewalks
   
96.02   Mailboxes
   
96.03   Removing snow and ice from sidewalks
   
96.04   Trees
   
96.05   Obstructing streets, sidewalks, alleys, public places
Use and Sale of Coal Tar Sealant Products
   
96.20   Purpose
   
96.21   Definitions
   
96.22   Prohibitions
   
96.23   Exemption
   
96.24   Asphalt based sealcoat products
   
96.25   Misdemeanor
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 CONSTRUCTION, REPAIRING AND CONDEMNATION OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   All sidewalks to be hereafter constructed in the city shall be
constructed in all respects as herein provided, all sidewalks shall be
constructed of stone, brick or cement.
   (B)   On Main Street between Robinson Street and Blue Earth Street, the
sidewalk shall be 12 feet wide and constructed of stone or cement; and on
Humphrey Street from Murphy Street to Lincoln Street the sidewalk shall be ten
feet wide and constructed of stone or cement; and all other sidewalks in the
city, except as hereinbefore mentioned shall be five feet wide and constructed
of stone, cement or brick.
   (C)   All sidewalks constructed in the city shall slope towards the street
at the rate of two inches in 12 feet. All brick used shall be good hard arch
brick and all stone shall be sawed stone or bush-hammered stone and shall
present a smooth and even surface and the stones shall not be less than three
inches thick.
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be built upon the established grade of the street,
provided that the line or grade of any sidewalk, as heretofore or hereafter
established, may be, by direction of the City Council, changed at any time and
any sidewalk that may have been constructed in accordance with any previously
established line or grade may be required by the City Council to be changed or
to be rebuilt at any other grade or line.
   (E)   All sidewalks and crossings hereafter constructed in the city shall be
constructed under the supervision of the City Council.
   (F)   All sidewalks heretofore constructed or that may be hereafter
constructed in the city, in the discretion of the City Council, may be
condemned, as required by law, and to be reconstructed according to the
provision and regulations of this section; and all sidewalks shall be built or
repaired at a time as the City Council may direct and all sidewalks in the city
shall be constructed or repaired at the expense of the owners of the property
adjacent thereto; and all sidewalks shall be built or repaired within ten days
after notice from the City Council, to so build or repair, is served on the
owners of the property adjacent thereto.
   (G)   Any person violating the provision of this section shall, on
conviction thereof, be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 24, passed 10-8-1902) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.02 MAILBOXES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause the placement of United
States mailboxes within the right-of-way of any public street improved with
curb and gutter and paving at a location where the public street abuts upon
platted property within the city.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by §
10.99.
(Ord. 122, passed 9-8-1969) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.03 REMOVING SNOW AND ICE FROM SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of every tract or parcel
of land within the limits of the city to remove or cause to be removed from the
sidewalk or sidewalks in front of, adjacent to, or adjoining the lot, tracts or
parcels of land so owned or occupied by him or her, all snow and ice within the
limits of 24 hours from the time the storm has ceased.
   (B)   In case the owner of any such lot, tract or parcel of land fails to
comply with the provisions of division (A) above, it shall be the duty of the
Streets and Maintenance Superintendent of the city to immediately remove or
cause to be removed the snow and ice from the sidewalk or sidewalks in front
of, adjoining or adjacent to the lot, tract or parcel of land, and report to
the Council of the city the cost of the removal in each case, with a
description of the lot or parcel of land in front of, adjoining or adjacent to
the sidewalk or sidewalks from which snow and ice have been removed and the
report shall be filed and preserved by the City Administrator.
   (C)   The Council shall give ten days’ notice by one publication in the
official paper of the city to the effect that at a certain time and place, it
will proceed to make an assessment for removing snow and ice from the
sidewalks. The notice shall briefly describe the location of sidewalks where
snow and ice have been removed by streets.
   (D)   The Council shall assess the amount as nearly as it can ascertain the
same, which will be required to defray the cost of the removal, including the
necessary expenses of making and collecting the assessment upon the real estate
of lots of land benefitted by the removal to the amount of the benefit.
   (E)   When the assessment is completed, the Council shall give ten-days’
notice by one publication in the official paper of the city, to the effect that
at the time and place therein specified, the assessment will be confirmed
unless sufficient cause is shown to the contrary, and that objections must be
filed one day before the time specified in the notice with the City
Administrator. The Council shall proceed on the hearing in the same manner and
shall have the same power to revise, correct and confirm or set aside the
assessment or to proceed de novo as in cases of other assessments under the
Charter of the city.
   (F)   All assessments when confirmed shall be final and conclusive, unless
appealed from as provided by § 178, and the following sections of the Charter
of the city, and shall be collected and enforced as other assessments made
under chapter 8, of the Charter. In case of an appeal, the appeal shall not
delay or effect the collection of the assessment, except as to property
appealed from.
   (G)   Any person or persons offending against any of the provisions of this
section, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 40, passed 1-5-1914)
§ 96.04 TREES.
   (A)   The word STREET as used herein comprises all the public highways or
thoroughfares of the city, whether under name of street, avenue, boulevard or
alley. The word BOULEVARD as used herein, except in the foregoing sentence,
means the plat of ground or parking of any street situated between the curbing
and the outer sidewalk line. The word TREE as used herein is to comprise all
ordinary shade or ornamental trees (preferably elm, hard maple and linden), but
does not include those usually classified as shrubs, although such may attain
considerable height or may assume a tree form.
   (B)   No tree of the box elder, cottonwood, soft maple or of the evergreen
varieties, or any shrub, vine, plant or flower except grass shall hereafter be
sown or planted in any street of the city.
   (C)   No tree as herein allowed shall be planted in a street of the city at
a distance of less than 25 feet from any other tree standing in the streets,
except under special circumstances and where allowed by the City Council.
   (D)   No tree shall be planted by anyone upon any property or lot of this
city so close to tenth street, so that the tree would materially interfere with
the growth and symmetrical development of the trees planted on the street.
   (E)   No person shall hitch or fasten any horse or other animal to any tree
or shrub in any street or public place, including parks, in the city, nor shall
any person suffer or permit any horse or animal to stand or be near enough to
any tree to bite, rub against, or in any manner injure or deface the same.
   (F)   When a street is permanently curbed and boulevarded by the city,
provision shall at the same time be made for the planting of the trees on the
streets and boulevards, where practicable, unless the trees already there are
of a satisfactory kind, and are situated in or reasonably near the proper place
or line. The trees are regarded as under the immediate care of the city, and
the city is to look after their trimming and the like.
   (G)   Every boulevard permanently established in the city, is to be covered
with sod or seeded with grass within a reasonable time by the abutting property
owners, and the grass is to be cut by the abutting property owner at such times
each season as may be needed, and are to be kept reasonably free from weeds and
dandelions. In case of failure, neglect or refusal of property owners to comply
with this provision of this section, the city may in lieu of prosecution, have
the work done, and the expense assessed and charged against the abutting
property, in accordance with the Charter.
   (H)   No person shall remove, cut, deface, trim or transplant or in any way
injure or interfere with any tree or shrub in any of the streets or public
grounds or parks in the city, except as expressly authorized by the City
Council. Any application for permission to remove, replace, destroy, cut,
deface, trim or transplant, or in any way injure or interfere with any shade or
ornamental tree or shrub, shall be first presented to the City Council, which
shall act thereon, and if permission be granted, the City Council shall direct
the City Administrator to issue the permit, in conformity with its action. Each
permit shall specify and specifically describe the work to be done under it,
and shall be void in 30 days after its date.
(Ord. 56, passed 11-2-1925) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.05 OBSTRUCTING STREETS, SIDEWALKS, ALLEYS, PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to encumber or obstruct
any street, sidewalk, lane, alley or other public place within the city, by
placing therein or thereon any building, structure, building material,
automobiles, trucks, carts, wagons, sleighs, boxes, lumber, firewood, posts,
awnings, merchandise, wood, dirt or any other material or substance or other
impediment whatever, or by making any excavation or opening therein without
first having obtained permission in writing from the City Council, or other
proper authority so doing, and any permission so given shall specify the
portion of the sidewalk or street, or other ground to be used and the period
for which the same may be used, provided that the period of the use shall not
exceed three months, and further, provided that in no case shall any person use
more than one-half of the sidewalk or one-third of the street, excepting when
it may be necessary in the erection of the building or making other
improvements.
      (1)   Provided, further, that the license may be revoked at any time by
the proper authority, and at the expiration of the permission, or on revocation
of the permission, the person or persons having so obstructed the street, alley
or other public ground, shall remove the material, substance or obstruction
from the street immediately.
      (2)   Provided, further, that merchants or others having goods and
occupying stores within the city may place their goods for show, when permitted
so to do by the proper authorities of the city, using the sidewalks in such
manner as not to interfere with public travel on the same nor to interfere with
the proper use of other property along the same, and not extending beyond four
feet from the front line of the lots or buildings so occupied by the person so
using the sidewalk.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every person encumbering or obstructing any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public ground, or making, causing to be made,
maintaining or permitting any opening or excavation therein to keep and
maintain at night a proper and sufficient illumination or light, fixed
substantially four feet above the level of the street or public ground in front
of the opening, or obstruction, and at all points around the same where
necessary, in such a manner as to afford timely warning to all persons
approaching the same; the light or illumination shall be kept lighted and
burning from darkness of each day until daylight of the next day; and the
persons so causing, making, maintaining or permitting any such obstruction,
excavation or opening in any street, sidewalk, alley or other public ground
shall at all times keep a substantial railing or fence around the same, which
shall be at least four feet high; provided, that no provision of this section
shall be so constructed as to permit any obstruction or excavation in any
street, alley or other public ground, except as herein or otherwise specially
provided, nor so as to release any person from any legal obligation or duty, or
from any damage that may be occasioned by any act or negligence of the person.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to throw or deposit or
cause or permit to be thrown or deposited, any dirt, paper or filth, the
sweepings of any house, store, shop or office or any ashes, shavings, filthy
water, offal, straw, wood, stone, earth, manure or rubbish or any kind on or
into any portion of any street, sidewalk, alley or public ground of the city,
or to take, move or carry away or cause the same to be done, any earth, sand
stone, gravel or other material, from any street, alley, lane or public ground
of the city, without permission from the Board of Public Works of the city or
any other officer or person duly authorized to grant the same.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to make any drain,
ditch or bridge across or upon any street, lane alley or public ground in the
city, or to move or cause to be moved on, through or along any street of the
city, any house, building or structure, or to slide or course upon hand sleds
or skates in any manner over, along or upon any sidewalk, street, lane or alley
in the city; provided, however, that when duly authorized by the proper
authority the persons may make drains, ditches or bridges or remove houses,
buildings or structures in and upon the streets of the city, as herein
provided.
   (E)   Any person now having any house, building or other structure, or any
fence, in whole or in part, within any street, alley, lane or other public
ground within the city, shall after notice to remove the same, cause to be
removed the house, building or other structure or fence or a portion thereof as
may be within the street, alley, lane or upon the public grounds of the city.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons receiving or delivering
goods, wares or merchandise within the city to place or keep upon or suffer to
be placed or kept upon any sidewalk within the city, any goods, wares or
merchandise which he or she or they may be receiving or delivering, without
leaving a proper passage way clear upon the sidewalk where the goods are so
being received or delivered of at least four feet in width, for the use of foot
passengers; and no person or persons so receiving or delivering goods shall
suffer the same to be or remain on the sidewalk for a longer period than one
hour in any event, or to obstruct any street or alley in the city, by placing
or causing to be placed, left or kept, any motor vehicle on the street or alley
for the purpose of loading or unloading the same or for any purpose or object
whatsoever.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell or attempt to
sell or cry for sale at public auction in the city, any goods, chattels or
personal property whatever, to any person or persons upon the sidewalks or
streets within the city, so as to collect a crowd of people upon the sidewalks
and streets, whereby the free passage thereof of any person or persons may be
obstructed prevented or hindered. This section shall include licensed
auctioneers of the city.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to push, draw, back or
drive any carriage, cart, sleigh, motor vehicle or other vehicle, or ride,
drive or back any horse, mule, cow or other animal over, upon or across any
sidewalk, pavement or curb, into any house, building, lot or other enclosure,
unless the sidewalk, pavement or curb has a suitable plank, brick or stone
crossing or means of access at the place at which the carriage, cart, sleigh,
motor vehicle or other vehicle is pushed, drawn, backed or driven or the horse,
mule, cow or other animal is ridden, driven or backed; provided, the crossing
or means or access shall be furnished and kept in repair by the owner or
occupant of the house, building lot or enclosure at all times to the
satisfaction of the proper authorities of the city; provided, that permission
to the sidewalks and to furnish the necessary means of crossing or access over
the same shall first be obtained from the proper authorities of the city.
   (I)   It shall be the duty of the occupant of each and every tenement or
building in the city, fronting upon any street, and the owner of any unoccupied
lot fronting as aforesaid, to clean the sidewalks in front of the tenement,
building or unoccupied lot, as the case may be, of snow or ice, by 10:00 a.m.
of each day, and cause the same to be kept clear of the snow and ice.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to fill up or dam or
otherwise obstruct the free course of water in any of the gutters, ditches or
sewers within the limits of the city.
   (K)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section, or failing
to do or perform the things required by them to be done and performed herein,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by §
10.99.
(Ord. 76, passed 1-2-1945) Penalty, see §
10.99
USE AND SALE OF COAL TAR SEALANT PRODUCTS
§ 96.20 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council understands that lakes, rivers, streams and other
bodies of water are natural assets which enhance the environmental,
recreational, cultural and economic resources and contribute to the general
health and welfare of the community.
   (B)   The use of sealers on asphalt driveways is a common practice; however,
scientific studies on the use of driveway sealers have demonstrated a
relationship between stormwater runoff and certain health and environmental
concerns.
   (C)   The 2013 Minnesota Legislature enacted a statewide prohibition on the
use and sale of coal tar sealant products. This new statewide prohibition has
been codified under M.S. § 116.202, as it may be amended from time to time, and
is effective on January 1, 2014.
   (D)   The purpose of this subchapter is to prohibit violations of M.S. §
116.202, as it may be amended from time to time, in the city, in order to
protect, restore and preserve the quality of its waters.
(Ord. 289, passed 1-6-2014)
§ 96.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASPHALT BASED SEALER. A petroleum based sealer material that is commonly
used on driveways, parking lots and other surfaces and does contain PAHs.
   COAL TAR. A byproduct of the process used to refine coal.
   COAL TAR SEALANT PRODUCT. A surface applied sealing product containing coal
tar, coal tar pitch, coal tar pitch volatiles, or any variation assigned the
Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) numbers 65996-93-2, 65996-89-6 or 8007-45-2.
   MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   PAHs. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. A group of organic chemicals formed
during the incomplete burning of coal, oil, gas or other organic substances.
Present in coal tar and believed harmful to humans, fish and other aquatic
life.
(Ord. 289, passed 1-6-2014)
§ 96.22 PROHIBITIONS.
   In accordance with M.S. § 116.202, as it may be amended from time to time:
   (A)   No person shall apply a coal tar sealant product on asphalt paved
surfaces within the city;
   (B)   No person shall sell a coal tar sealant product that is formulated or
marketed for application on asphalt-paved surfaces within the city;
   (C)   No person shall allow a coal tar sealant product to be applied upon
property that is under that person’s ownership or control;
   (D)   No person shall contract with any commercial sealer product
applicator, residential or commercial developer, or any other person for the
application of any coal tar sealant product to any driveway, parking lot or
other surface within the city; and
   (E)   No commercial sealer product applicator, residential or commercial
developer, or other similar individual or organization shall direct any
employee, independent contractor, volunteer or other person to apply any coal
tar sealant product to any driveway, parking lot or other surface within the
city.
(Ord. 289, passed 1-6-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.23 EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Upon the express written approval from the MPCA and in accordance with
M.S. § 116.202, as it may be amended from time to time, a person who conducts
research on the environmental effects of coal tar sealant product or where the
use of coal tar sealant product is necessary in the development of an
alternative technology shall be exempt from the prohibitions provided in §
96.22.
   (B)   Any person that is granted approval by the MPCA must provide a copy of
the written approval from the MPCA to the city 20 days before conducting the
research.
(Ord. 289, passed 1-6-2014)
§ 96.24 ASPHALT BASED SEALCOAT PRODUCTS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall only apply to coal tar sealant
products in the city and shall not affect the use of asphalt based sealer
products within the city.
(Ord. 289, passed 1-6-2014)
§ 96.25 MISDEMEANOR.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this subchapter is guilty
of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by §
10.99, plus the costs of prosecution in either case.
(Ord. 289, passed 1-6-2014)
CHAPTER 97: ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICES
Section
   
97.01   Purpose and intent
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Electronic delivery devices
   
97.04   Other applicable laws
   
97.05   Violations
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Unregulated electronic delivery devices, commonly referred to as
electronic cigarettes, or e-cigarettes, closely resemble and purposefully mimic
the act of smoking by having users inhale vaporized liquid nicotine or other
substances created by heat through an electronic ignition system. After testing
a number of e-cigarettes from two leading manufacturers, the Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) determined that various samples tested contained not only
nicotine but also detectable levels of known carcinogens and toxic chemicals,
including tobacco-specific nitrosamines and diethylene glycol, a toxic chemical
used in antifreeze. The FDA's testing also suggested that quality control
processes used to manufacture these products are inconsistent or non-existent.
("Summary of results: Laboratory analysis of electronic cigarettes conducted by
FDA, “Food and Drug Administration (FDA), July 22, 2009.)”
   (B)   E-cigarettes produce a vapor of undetermined and potentially harmful
substances, which may appear similar to smoke emitted by traditional tobacco
products. Their use in workplaces and public places where smoking of
traditional tobacco products is prohibited creates concern and confusion and
leads to difficulties in enforcing the smoking prohibitions.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS .
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance intended for human consumption that can be used
by a person to simulate smoking in the delivery of nicotine or any other
substance through inhalation of vapor from the product. Electronic delivery
device shall include any component part of such a product whether or not sold
separately.
   INDOOR AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded by
walls, doorways, or windows, whether open or closed, covering more than 50% of
the combined surface area of the vertical planes constituting the perimeter of
the area. A wall includes any retractable divider, garage door, or other
physical barrier, whether temporary or permanent. A 0.011-gauge window screen
with an 18 by 16 mesh count is not considered a wall.
   USE. The inhaling or exhaling of vapor from any electronic delivery device.
USE shall also mean carrying an electronic delivery device that is turned on or
otherwise activated.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 97.03 ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICES.
   The use of any electronic delivery device is prohibited anywhere smoking is
prohibited by the Minnesota Clean Indoor Act, M.S. §§ 144.411 to 144.417, as it
may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-6-2016) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This chapter is intended to complement the Minnesota Clean Indoor Air Act,
M.S. §§ 144.411 to 144.417, as it may be amended from time to time. Nothing in
this chapter authorizes smoking or the use of an electronic delivery device in
any location that is regulated by other applicable laws or regulations.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 97.05 VIOLATIONS.
   It is a violation of this chapter for the proprietor, person, or entity that
owns, leases, manages, operates, or otherwise controls the use of an area to
knowingly fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-6-2016) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a petty
misdemeanor. Each day of violation constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-6-2016)
CHAPTER 98: JUNK VEHICLES
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Parking and storage of junk vehicles
   
98.03   Abandoned vehicles
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLES. Any vehicle that has been left on a public street, alley
or on public land for a period of not more than 48 hours.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is required to be licensed by the State of
Minnesota and is not current in those licensing requirements. It shall also
include any vehicle that is not in operable condition, or which is used for
parts, or is kept for dismantling, scrapping or salvage of any kind.
   PERSON. A person shall be any natural person, corporation, limited liability
company, limited liability partnership, firm or association.
   VEHICLE. Any device in, upon or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a roadway except for devices solely moved by human
power or those that are medically necessary.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 98.02 PARKING AND STORAGE OF JUNK VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall park, keep, place or store or permit the parking,
keeping, placing or storing of a junk vehicle on any public street or alleyway,
public parking lot or other public land.
   (B)   No person shall park, keep, place or store or permit the parking,
keeping, placing or storing of a junk vehicle on any private property located
within the city limits of the city unless such vehicle is duly licensed with
the State of Minnesota or is contained within a completely enclosed structure.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 98.03 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall abandon any vehicle upon any public street, alley,
public parking or public land within the city.
   (B)   Any abandoned vehicle may be removed and dealt with as provided under
the provision of M.S. Ch. 168B as amended or under any successor statutory
chapter.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity violating a provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-21-2017)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   RESERVED
      
111.   LIQUOR REGULATIONS
      
112.   GAMBLING
      
113.   TOBACCO PRODUCTS
      
114.   COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
      
115.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
116.   CONVENTION AND VISITOR’S BUREAU/LODGING TAX
CHAPTER 110: RESERVED
CHAPTER 111: LIQUOR REGULATIONS
Section
   
111.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
111.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Retail licensing rules
   
111.05   Kinds of licenses
   
111.06   License for 3.2% malt liquor
   
111.07   License for intoxicating liquor, on-sale
   
111.08   License for intoxicating liquor, off-sale
   
111.09   License for brew pub intoxicating liquor, on-sale
   
111.10   Fees
   
111.11   Liability insurance
   
111.12   Hours of sale
   
111.13   Persons allowed on the licensed premises
   
111.14   License revocation or suspension
   
111.15   Lawful gambling
   
111.16   Revocation, suspension
§ 111.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of
the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
chapter is adopted.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 111.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101 as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter.
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
“intoxicating” or a “3.2% malt” includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt
liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises and served at tables to the public.
(Ord. 208, passed 8-5-1996; Ord. 2017-02, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 111.04 RETAIL LICENSING RULES.
   (A)   A license is required. No person may directly or indirectly, on any
pretense or by any device, sell, barter, keep for sale or otherwise dispose of
alcoholic beverages as part of a sales transaction without first having
obtained a license from the city.
   (B)   Licensing official. The City Administrator shall be the licensing
official for the city. All applications for any license shall be made to the
City Administrator.
   (C)   Council approval is required. No license or permit will be issued
within the city without the prior approval of the City Council.
   (D)   Licenses and applications. Application for license may be made by any
person by submitting to the City Administrator a written statement under oath,
setting forth the name of the applicant, his or her address, owners of the
applicant if other than a natural person, the business in connection with which
the proposed license will operate, its location, whether or not the owner or
owners were ever convicted of a crime and whether or not the applicant has ever
applied for or held, in other communities, a license to sell or permit
consumption on his or her premises of beer or intoxicating liquor, and other
information as the Council may require from time to time.
      (1)   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a receipt
from the City Administrator for payment in full of the required fee for the
license. All fees shall be paid into the general fund of the municipality. Upon
rejection of any application for a license, the City Administrator shall refund
the amount paid, less any costs for processing.
      (2)   Each application shall also be accompanied by a liability insurance
policy. The liability insurance policy shall contain other and additional
provisions as provided by M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to
time, or in lieu of the policy or policies, evidence from the insurance company
or companies that coverage will be provided when the applicant begins business.
      (3)   The City Administrator shall investigate all facts set out in the
application, including a consideration of the building with regard to zoning
and building ordinances and the proximity of schools and churches and shall
give opportunity to any person to be heard for or against the granting of the
license, on request. After the investigation and hearing, the City Council
shall grant or refuse the license in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
         (a)   Licenses. 
            1.   No license shall be granted to any person: under the age of 21
years of age; nor unless he or she be the actual owner or proprietor of the
place of business where he or she intends to sell the intoxicating liquor or
permit the consumption of intoxicating liquor; nor who already owns or has a
direct or indirect interest in a license provided for in this chapter; nor who
has been convicted of a felony; nor who is a manufacturer or wholesaler of beer
or liquor or who is interested in the control of any place where beer or liquor
is manufactured, except licenses may be granted for an entity that meets the
definition of a brew pub as defined in M.S. § 340A.24.
            2.   It shall be a condition of every license that the licensee
furnish the City Council with a list of all persons, firms or corporations
having an interest in the licensed business and the nature and extent of the
interest. If the licensee is a corporation, the list shall show all
stockholders, their resident address and the number of shares held by each,
either personally or beneficially for others. It shall be the duty of each
licensee to notify the City Administrator in writing within five days of any
change in legal ownership or beneficial interest in the business or the shares.
Any change of address or beneficial interest or stock entitled to be voted at
any meeting of the stockholders of a corporate licensee which results in voting
control of the corporation by persons owning shares of stock therein shall be
deemed equivalent to a transfer of the license issued to the corporation and
any such license shall be revoked five days after any change of ownership or
beneficial interest of shares unless the City Council shall have been notified
of the change in writing within five days and shall have approved thereof. The
City Council or any officer, designated thereby may, at any reasonable time,
examine the stock transfer record and the minute book of any corporate
licensee.
         (b)   Licenses after conviction or revocation. No license shall be
granted for sale on any premises where a licensee has been convicted of the
violation of this chapter or where any license hereunder has been revoked for
cause until 30 days have elapsed after the conviction or revocation.
   (E)   Expiration date of licenses. All liquor licenses issued pursuant to
this chapter shall expire on January 1 of each year.
   (F)   New license application procedures. An application for a new license
may be submitted at any time. If an investigation fee is required, it must be
paid in full and all required insurance certificates must be submitted with the
application. Upon approval of the application, the annual license fee must be
paid in full before the application will be forwarded to the state.
   (G)   Renewal of pre-existing permit or license. Pre-existing liquor
license: all applications for renewal of a pre-existing liquor license shall be
submitted on or before November 30 of the current year for a license taking
effect on January 1 of the following year. All annual license fees for the
following year shall be paid in full on or before December 20 of the current
year.
   (H)   Transfer of a license due to change of ownership.
      (1)   Any change in ownership involving a license requires the submission
of an application to transfer that license; a change of ownership requiring
official transfer of a license occurs, as follows.
         (a)   If the licensee is a natural person, upon the sale of the
business requiring the license or, upon the death of the licensee.
         (b)   If the licensee is a corporation, upon change in ownership of
more than 10% of its stock.
         (c)   If the licensee is a natural person or a partnership, upon the
addition of a new partner.
      (2)   An application to transfer a license shall be treated the same as
an application for a new license. If the change in ownership is caused by the
death of a licensee, then the personal representative is authorized to continue
to operate the business for up to 90 days but must submit the application
within 30 days of the date of death. In all other cases, the application must
be submitted and approved by the Council before the sale of any alcoholic
beverages can occur under the new ownership.
   (I)   Posting of licenses. All licensees shall conspicuously post their
liquor license or permit in their places of business.
   (J)   Resident agent. Before a liquor license or set up permit will be
issued, the applicant shall appoint in writing a natural person who is a
resident of the city to act as its agent for service of notices or other
process relating to the license. The agent must be a person who could qualify
individually as a licensee.
   (K)   Additional restrictions on licenses. The Council may place upon a
license such conditions or restrictions as it may deem necessary and justified.
   (L)   Police access. All licensed premises shall be open to inspection
during business hours by any police officer. As a condition of receiving a
liquor license, all licensees consent to the inspection, without a warrant.
   (M)   Payment of delinquent taxes or charges. No liquor license shall be
granted for any premises upon which taxes, assessments or other financial
charges of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (N)   Duplicate license. Duplicates of original licenses may be issued by
the City Administrator without action of the Council, upon the licensee’s
affidavit that the original has been lost and upon payment of the duplicate
license fee.
   (O)   Notice posting. A premises licensed for the retail sale of alcoholic
beverages must post and maintain in a conspicuous place within the licensed
premises:
      (1)   One or more signs which read:
   “THE MAXIMUM CRIMINAL PENALTY FOR DRIVING WHEN UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF
ALCOHOL IS $1,000 OR 90 DAYS IN JAIL OR BOTH. M.S. §§ 169A.20/169A.27. THE
MAXIMUM CRIMINAL PENALTY FOR CRIMINAL VEHICULAR HOMICIDE IS $20,000.00 OR TEN
YEARS IMPRISONMENT OR BOTH. M.S. § 609.21.”
      (2)   One or more signs which read:
   “THIS ESTABLISHMENT IS PROHIBITED BY LAW FROM SERVING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TO
A PERSON WHO IS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE OR OBVIOUSLY INTOXICATED. M.S. §§
340A.502 AND 340A.503.”
      (3)   To the extent state statutes require alteration or adjustment of
the signs noted in divisions (A) or (B) above, the provisions of amended state
statutes shall govern and serve as an automatic amendment and alteration to
this chapter.
   (P)   Reporting illegal conduct. Licensees and their employees shall report
to the police all illegal conduct committed by customers occurring within the
licensed premises. The report must be made within 24 hours of the occurrence
and shall include the identity of the customer(s) and a description of the
conduct.
(Ord. 208, passed 8-5-1996; Ord. 214, passed 1-5-1998; Ord. 271, passed 5-4-
2009; Ord. 2017-02, passed 7-24-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 KINDS OF LICENSES.
   The following kinds of licenses may be issued within the city:
   (A)   3.2% malt liquor, off-sale;
   (B)   3.2% malt liquor, on-sale;
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor, on-sale, for special events;
   (D)   Intoxicating liquor, on-sale;
   (E)   Intoxicating liquor, off-sale;
   (F)   Brew pub intoxicating liquor, on-sale; and
   (G)   Sunday intoxicating liquor, on-sale.
(Ord. 208, passed 8-5-1996; Ord. 2017-02, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 111.06 LICENSE FOR 3.2% MALT LIQUOR.
   (A)   On-sale. An on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license may be issued to drug
stores, restaurants, hotels/motels, clubs, bowling centers or establishments
used exclusively for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of
tobacco products and soft drinks.
   (B)   Off-sale. An off-sale 3.2% malt liquor license may be issued to any
person who qualifies for it under the laws of the state or this code.
   (C)   Liability insurance. Liability insurance shall ordinarily be required,
providing coverage in an amount no less than that set by this chapter; however,
liability insurance is not required of a licensee who at the time of submission
of his or her application for renewal, provides to the City Administrator an
affidavit and additional supporting financial records as may be required by the
City Administrator, which establish the following:
      (1)   For an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license, that they had sales of
less than $10,000 of 3.2% malt liquor for the preceding year; and
      (2)   For an off-sale 3.2% malt liquor license, that they had sales of
less than $20,000 of 3.2% malt liquor for the preceding year.
   (D)   In combination with an intoxicating liquor license. A person licensed
to sell intoxicating liquor at on-sale is not required to obtain an on-sale
license to sell 3.2% malt liquor at on-sale. A person licensed to sell
intoxicating liquor at off-sale is not required to obtain an off-sale license
to sell 3.2% malt liquor at off-sale.
   (E)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor license, on-sale, for special events. A
club or charitable, religious or non-profit organization may be issued a
temporary on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license for special events. The temporary
license may authorize sale in a school building. No applicant shall qualify for
a temporary license for more than ten days in any calendar year. The Council
may impose other restrictions.
(Ord. 208, passed 8-5-1996; Ord. 2017-02, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 111.07 LICENSE FOR INTOXICATING LIQUOR, ON-SALE.
   (A)   Eligible licensees. The city may issue an on-sale intoxicating liquor
license to a hotel/motel, restaurant, bowling center, club, congressionally
chartered veteran’s organization or exclusive liquor store.
   (B)   Sales by clubs. Liquor sales made by a club or veteran’s organization
must be made only to its members and bona fide guests. A club shall keep a
daily register showing the name of a guest and the name of the host member. The
register shall be open to inspection by police officers.
   (C)   Investigation fee. At the time of submitting an initial application
for an on-sale license or on application for transfer of an existing license,
the applicant shall pay the investigation fee set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   Liability insurance. Liability insurance is required, providing
coverage in an amount no less than that set by this chapter.
   (E)   In combination with intoxicating liquor, off-sale. To the extent
authorized by state statutes, an on-sale intoxicating liquor license may be
issued or transferred to a licensee who already possesses an off-sale
intoxicating liquor license.
(Ord. 208, passed 8-5-1996; Ord. 2017-02, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 111.08 LICENSE FOR INTOXICATING LIQUOR, OFF-SALE.
   (A)   Eligible licensees. The city may issue an off-sale intoxicating liquor
license to a club, congressionally chartered veteran’s organization or
exclusive liquor store.
   (B)   May not be combined with 3.2% malt liquor, on-sale. An off-sale
intoxicating liquor license may not be issued for premises where 3.2% malt
liquor is sold on-sale.
   (C)   Liability insurance. Liability insurance is required, providing
coverage in an amount to be set by this chapter or amended and adjusted from
time to time by resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   Liquor samples. A licensee with an off-sale intoxicating liquor
license may provide samples of malt liquor, wine, liqueurs or cordials, which
the licensee has in stock, and is offering for sale to the general public. The
samples must be dispensed at no charge and are to be consumed in the licensees’
premises during permitted hours of off-sale in a quantity of less than 100
milliliters of malt liquor per variety per customer, 50 milliliters of wine per
variety per customer, and 25 milliliters of liqueur or cordials per variety per
customer.
   (E)   Limitations on issuance of licenses to one person or place. No more
than one off-sale intoxicating liquor license may be directly or indirectly
issued to the same person or for the same place in the city.
   (F)   In combination with intoxicating liquor, on-sale. To the extent
authorized by state statutes, an on-sale intoxicating liquor license may be
issued or transferred to a licensee who already possesses an off-sale
intoxicating liquor license.
   (G)   Six off-sale licenses. Unless amended by Council action, no more than
six off-sale licenses may be issued for transactions occurring within the city
limits.
(Ord. 208, passed 8-5-1996; Ord. 2017-02, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 111.09 LICENSE FOR BREW PUB INTOXICATING LIQUOR, ON-SALE.
   (A)   Eligible licenses. The city may issue an on-sale intoxicating liquor
to brewers who operate a restaurant in their place of manufacture and who meet
the criteria established at M.S. § 340A.24, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   Sales. Sales under this license at on-sale may not exceed 3,500
barrels per year.
   (C)   Investigation fee. At the time of submitting an initial application
for an on-sale license or on application for transfer of an existing license,
the applicant shall pay the investigation fee set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   Liability insurance. Liability insurance is required, providing
coverage in an amount no less than that set by this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 111.10 FEES.
   (A)   Investigation fee. The initial investigation fee shall be $150. The
investigation fee may be adjusted and amended from time to time by resolution
of the City Council.
   (B)   Annual license fees. The annual license fees for alcoholic beverage
licenses shall be as follows:
      (1)   3.2% malt liquor, off-sale: $30;
      (2)   3.2% malt liquor, on-sale: $45;
      (3)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor, on-sale for special events: $20;
      (4)   Intoxicating liquor, on-sale:
         (a)   Club license: $200;
         (b)   Brew pub: $2,500; and
         (c)   All other business licensees; $2,500.
      (5)   Intoxicating liquor, off-sale: $100
      (6)   Sunday intoxicating liquor, on-sale, for special events: $200; and
      (7)   Duplicate: $50 or original fee, whichever if less.
   (C)   Fee increase procedures. The annual license fee may not be increased
until a public hearing is conducted on the issue. Notice of the proposed
increase of fees must be mailed to all affected licensees at least 30 days
before the date of the hearing.
   (D)   Pro-rating annual license fees. The annual license fee shall be pro-
rated for the initial issuance or transfer of a license or permit. Upon
approval by the Council, the City Administrator shall determine the proportion
of the year remaining for the license and that proportion of the license fee
shall be charged to the applicant.
   (E)   Refunding fees. If a licensee stops doing business or desires to
transfer the license, then written notice must be provided by the licensee to
the City Administrator. The Administrator shall determine the proportion of the
year remaining for the license. Upon approval by the Council, that proportion
of the license fee shall be refunded; however, there shall be no refund if the
license is revoked.
(Ord. 208, passed 8-5-1996; Ord. 2017-02, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 111.11 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   When liability insurance is required in this chapter, each applicant, upon
filing his or her application for license under this chapter, shall file with
the City Administrator a liability insurance policy, which shall meet minimum
coverage policy limits in an amount determined by resolution of the City
Council from time to time, but which in no event shall be an amount less than
that amount required by M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 208, passed 8-5-1996; Ord. 2017-02, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 111.12 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   3.2% malt liquor, on-sale or off-sale. 
      (1)   No sale of 3.2% malt liquor, whether on-sale or off-sale, may be
made at the following times:
         (a)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of Monday through
Saturday;
         (b)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sunday; or
         (c)   Between 8:00 p.m. on December 24 and 8:00 a.m. on December 25.
      (2)   However, sale of 3.2% malt liquor made by a licensee possessing an
intoxicating liquor license shall conform with the hours of sale established
for the style of intoxicating liquor license possessed by the licensee.
   (B)   Intoxicating liquor, on-sale. No sale of intoxicating liquor at on-
sale may be made at the following times:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of Monday through
Saturday;
      (2)   After 1:00 a.m. on Sundays; or
      (3)   Between 8:00 p.m. on December 24 and 8:00 a.m. on December 25.
   (C)   Intoxicating liquor, off-sale. No sale of alcoholic beverages may be
made by an off-sale licensee at the following times:
      (1)   Before 8:00 a.m.;
      (2)   After 10:00 p.m.;
      (3)   On Thanksgiving day;
      (4)   On Christmas day; December 25; or
      (5)   After 8:00 p.m. on Christmas Eve, December 24.
   (D)   Sundays, restaurants.
      (1)   Sunday on-sale liquor. Notwithstanding other provisions of this
chapter, special on-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor on Sunday
shall be issued only to restaurants.
      (2)   Restaurant. RESTAURANT means an establishment, other than a hotel,
under the control of a single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly
prepared on the premises and served at tables to the public.
      (3)   Hours. No intoxicating liquor shall be sold after 1:00 a.m. on
Sunday, except restaurants having a special Sunday on-sale liquor license may
serve intoxicating liquor between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on Sunday and 1:00
a.m. on Monday.
      (4)   License fee. Special Sunday on-sale liquor licenses may be issued
by the City Council for a period of one year for a license fee of $200. The
special license may be revoked by the Council for cause.
      (5)   Application. All other provisions of this chapter not inconsistent
with the provisions of this section shall apply to the issuance and use of
special Sunday on-sale liquor licenses.
(Ord. 208, passed 8-5-1996; Ord. 227, passed 12-4-2000; Ord. 270, passed 5-4-
2009; Ord. 2017-02, passed 7-24-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.13 PERSONS ALLOWED ON THE LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   Closing the licensed premises. All licensed premises must be closed to
the public and no one may be on the licensed premise at the time that sales,
consumption or display of alcoholic beverages are prohibited, except as
follows:
      (1)   An employee of the licensee actually engaged in the performance of
duties for the licensee; and
      (2)   A restaurant while actually serving meals to customers, but only if
the annual gross receipts of the restaurant are at least 60% attributable to
the sale of food.
   (B)   Age restrictions.
      (1)   No person under 18 years of age may serve or sell intoxicating
liquor in a licensed premises.
      (2)   No person under 18 years of age shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors are sold at retail “on-
sale”.
(Ord. 208, passed 8-5-1996; Ord. 240, passed - -2004; Ord. 2017-02, passed 7-
24-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.14 LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Responsible officer. The Chief of Police shall be responsible for
investigating any violations of law or license limitations by any license
holder. If the Chief of Police determines that a violation may warrant
immediate disciplinary action, then the information concerning the violations
shall be provided to the Council in a timely fashion. In all other situations,
the Chief of Police shall coordinate with the City Administrator to provide the
information to the Council at the time the City Administrator submits the
application for renewal of licenses to the Council for consideration.
   (B)   Council action. If the Council determines that disciplinary action may
be warranted due to the information provided by the Chief of Police, then a
formal hearing before the Council shall be scheduled. Notice of the hearing
shall be given to the license holder at least 30 days prior to the hearing. The
notice shall contain information adequate to advise the license holder
concerning the allegations. The license holder shall have the right to appear
at the Council meeting and to contest the claims. Upon the finding that the
license holder has failed to comply with the law or a license restriction, the
Council may suspend the license for up to 60 days or revoke the license or
impose a civil fine not to exceed $2,000 for each violation.
   (C)   Civil and criminal penalties. The imposition of a suspension or
revocation of a license as a civil penalty shall not impair the ability of
lawful authority from filing criminal charges and seeking criminal penalties
for any violation of law.
(Ord. 208, passed 8-5-1996; Ord. 2017-02, passed 7-24-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.15 LAWFUL GAMBLING.
   (A)   Leasing agreements. A licensee may lease any portion of the licensed
premises to “qualified” organizations licensed to conduct lawful gambling
pursuant to M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Liquor license renewals. At the time a licensee applies for renewal of
a liquor license or permit, there shall be submitted to the City Administrator
copies of all leasing agreements concerning any lawful gambling covering any
portion of the previous 12 months. The licensee shall also submit a copy of the
verified statement of the organization concerning the residency requirement.
   (C)   Leasing restrictions. The following restrictions apply to lawful
gambling leases.
      (1)   A licensee may not lease to anyone except a “qualified”
organization.
      (2)   A licensee may not lease any portion of the licensed premises to
more than one organization licensed to conduct lawful gambling at the same
time.
      (3)   The maximum term of the lease shall be no more than two years, but
the lease may be renewed.
(Ord. 208, passed 8-5-1996; Ord. 2017-02, passed 7-24-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.16 REVOCATION, SUSPENSION.
   Unless otherwise declared in this chapter with respect to a particular
offense, it is a misdemeanor for any person to violate any provision of this
chapter. In addition, the violation of any provisions of this chapter by a
licensee or agent shall be ground for revocation or suspension of the license.
Before revocation, the licensee shall be provided with written notice setting
out the nature of the charges against the licensee and setting a date for
hearing before the City Council not less than ten days from the service of the
notice. A person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 208, passed 8-5-1996; Ord. 2017-02, passed 7-24-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: GAMBLING
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Provisions of state law adopted
   
112.03   License requirement
   
112.04   Persons eligible for a license
   
112.05   License fees
   
112.06   Profits
   
112.07   Conduct of gambling
   
112.08   Compensation
   
112.09   Reporting requirements
   
112.10   Eligible premises
   
112.11   Prizes
   
112.12   Bingo
   
112.13   Suspension and revocation
   
112.14   Procedure
   
112.15   Violation
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to closely regulate the conduct of gambling.
(Ord. 172, passed 8-6-1984)
§ 112.02 PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   (A)   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 349, as it may be amended from time to
time, relating to the definition of terms, licensing and restrictions of
gambling are adopted and made a part of this chapter as if set out in full.
   (B)   Amendments made pursuant to legislation to the chapter shall also be
incorporated and adopted herein without further action.
(Ord. 172, passed 8-6-1984)
§ 112.03 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to directly or indirectly operate a gambling
device or conduct a raffle without a license to do so as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 172, passed 8-6-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR A LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall be issued only to a fraternal, religious or veterans
organization, or any corporation, fund, foundation, trust or association
organized for exclusively scientific, literary, charitable, educational or
artistic purposes, or for the purpose of making contributions to or for the use
of the United States of America, the state or any of its political subdivisions
for exclusively public purposes, or any club which is organized and operated
exclusively for pleasure or recreation, or other non-profitable purposes, if no
part of the net income of any such organization, corporation, fund, foundation,
trust, association or club insures to the benefit of any private member,
stockholder or individual.
   (B)   The organization must have been in existence for at least three years
and shall have at least ten active members as defined in M.S. § 349.12, Subd.
2, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 172, passed 8-6-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Fees. License fees for all licenses required in this section shall be
adopted and, from time to time amended and revised, by resolution of the
Council, which resolution, bearing the effective date thereof, shall be kept on
file in the office of the City Administrator and open to public inspection. The
fees when so adopted shall be uniformly enforced.
   (B)   Application procedure. Application for a license shall be made upon a
form prescribed by the Council. No person shall make a false representation in
an application. The Council shall act upon the application within 180 days from
the date of application, but shall not issue a license until at least 30 days
after the date of application.
(Ord. 172, passed 8-6-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 PROFITS.
   Profits from the operation of gambling devices or the conduct of raffles
shall be used solely for lawful purposes as defined by M.S. § 349.12, Subd. 11,
as it may be amended from time to time, and as authorized at a regular meeting
of the organization.
(Ord. 172, passed 8-6-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.07 CONDUCT OF GAMBLING.
   (A)   Gambling manager. All operation of gambling devices and the conduct of
raffles shall be under the supervision of a single gambling manager to be
designated by the organization. The gambling manager shall be responsible for
gross receipts and profits from gambling devices and raffles and for their
operation. The gambling manager shall be responsible for using profits for a
lawful purpose.
   (B)   Bond. The gambling manager shall provide a fidelity bond in the sum of
$10,000 in favor of the organization conditioned on the faithful performance of
his or her duties.
   (C)   Qualifications of gambling manager. The gambling manager shall be an
active member of the organization who has reached the age of majority and shall
qualify under state law.
(Ord. 172, passed 8-6-1984)
§ 112.08 COMPENSATION.
   No compensation shall be paid to any person in connection with the operation
of a gambling device or the conduct of a raffle by a licensed organized, except
in full compliance with the terms and requirements of M.S. § 349.21, as it may
be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 172, passed 8-6-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.09 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Gross receipts. Each organization licensed to operate gambling devices
shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses and profits for each single
gathering or occasion at which gambling devices are operated or a raffle is
conducted. All deductions from gross receipts for each single gathering or
occasion shall be documented with receipts or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction, and the name of the recipient. The distribution of profits shall be
itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and date of payment.
   (B)   Separation of funds. Gross receipts from the operation of gambling
devices and the conduct of raffles shall be segregated from other revenues of
the organization, including bingo gross receipts, and placed in a separate
account. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses and profits from
the operation of gambling devices or the conduct of raffles shall not be the
same person who accounts for other revenues of the organization, except that
the person may be the same person who accounts for bingo gross receipts,
expenses and profits of the organization.
   (C)   Monthly reports. Each organization licensed to operate devices or
conduct raffles shall report monthly to its membership, and to the City
Administrator, its gross receipts, expenses and profits from gambling devices
or raffles, and the distribution of profits. The licensee shall preserve the
records for three years.
(Ord. 172, passed 8-6-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.10 ELIGIBLE PREMISES.
   Unless authorized in another location by the Council, gambling devices shall
be operated and raffles conducted by a licensed organization only upon premises
which it owns or leases, except that tickets for raffles may be sold off the
premises. Leases shall be in writing and shall be for a term of at least 12
months. No lease shall provide that rental payments be based on the percentage
of receipts from gambling devices or raffles. A copy of the lease shall be
filed with the City Administrator.
(Ord. 172, passed 8-6-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.11 PRIZES.
   Total prizes from the operation of paddlewheels and tipboards awarded in any
single day in which they are operated shall not exceed $1,000. Total prizes
resulting from any single spin from a paddlewheel or from any single tipboard
shall not exceed $150. Total prizes from the operation of a raffle shall not
exceed $35,000. Total prizes awarded in any calendar year by any organization
shall not exceed $35,000. Merchandise prizes shall be valued at fair market
retail value.
(Ord. 172, passed 8-6-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.12 BINGO.
   (A)   License requirement. Unless exempt from M.S. § 349.19, as it may be
amended from time to time, no organization shall operate a bingo game within
the city without having issued to it a bingo license.
   (B)   License fees. License fees for all licenses required in this section
shall be adopted, and from time to time amended and revised, by resolution of
the Council, which resolution, bearing the effective date thereof, shall be
kept on file in the office of the City Administrator and open to public
inspection. The fees when so adopted shall be uniformly enforced.
   (C)   License year. The license shall expire on December 31 next after the
date of issue.
   (D)   Application procedure. Application for a license shall be made to the
Council upon forms prepared by the City Administrator for that purpose. No
person shall make a false representation in an application. The Council shall
act upon the application within 180 days from the date of application, but
shall not issue a license until at least 30 days after the date of application.
   (E)   Fidelity bond. No bingo license shall be issued until the bingo
manager gives the fidelity bond required by M.S. § 349.17, Subd. 7, as it may
be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 172, passed 8-6-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.13 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   Any license may be suspended or revoked for any violation of this section. A
license shall not be suspended or revoked until the procedural requirements of
§
112.14 are completed. The temporary suspension will not extend for more than
two weeks.
(Ord. 172, passed 8-6-1984)
§ 112.14 PROCEDURE.
   A license shall not be revoked under §
112.13 until notice and an opportunity for a hearing have been given to the
licensee. The notice shall be personally served and shall state the section
provision reasonably believed to be violated. The notice shall also state that
the licensee may demand a hearing on the matter, in which case the license will
not be suspended until after the hearing is held. If the licensee requests a
hearing, one shall be held on the matter by the Council at least one week after
the date on which the request is made. If, as a result of the hearing, the
Council finds that a violation exists, then the Council may suspend or
terminate the license.
(Ord. 172, passed 8-6-1984)
§ 112.15 VIOLATION.
   Any willful violation of the provisions of this chapter constitutes a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 172, passed 8-6-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: TOBACCO PRODUCTS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License
   
113.03   Fees
   
113.04   Basis for denial of license
   
113.05   Prohibited sales
   
113.06   Responsibility
   
113.07   Compliance checks and inspections
   
113.08   Other illegal acts
   
113.09   Exceptions and defenses
   
113.10   Violations
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD-RESISTANT PACKAGING. Packaging that meets the definition set forth in
C.F.R., Title 16, § 1700.15(b), as in effect on January 1, 2015, and was tested
in accordance with the method described in C.F.R., Title 16, § 1700.20.
   CIGAR. Any roll of tobacco that is wrapped in tobacco leaf or in any other
substance containing tobacco, with or without a tip or mouthpiece, which is not
a cigarette as defined in M.S. § 297F.01, Subd. 3, as may be amended from time
to time.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell licensed products are following and complying with the
requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall involve the use of minors
as authorized by this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the use of
minors who attempt to purchase licensed products for educational, research and
training purposes as authorized by state and federal laws. COMPLIANCE CHECKS
may also be conducted by other units of government for the purpose of enforcing
appropriate federal, state or local laws and regulations relating to licensed
products.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICES. Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance intended for human consumption that can be used
by a person to simulate smoking in the delivery of nicotine or any other
substance through inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product. ELECTRONIC
DELIVERY DEVICES includes any component part of a product, whether or not
marketed or sold separately. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICES does not include any
product that has been approved or certified by the United States Food and Drug
Administration for sale as a tobacco-cessation product, as a tobacco-dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is marketed and sold for such an
approved purpose.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any licensed product wrapped
individually for sale. INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED products shall include but are not
be limited to single cigarette packs, single bags or cans of loose tobacco in
any form, and single cans or other packaging of snuff or chewing tobacco.
Cartons or other packaging containing more than a single pack or other
container as described in this definition shall not be considered individually
packaged.
   INDOOR AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded by
walls, doorways, or windows, whether open or closed, covering more than 50% of
the combined surface area of the vertical planes constituting the perimeter of
the area. A wall includes any retractable divider, garage door, or other
physical barrier, whether temporary or permanent. A standard (0.011 gauge with
an 18 by 16 mesh count) window screen is not considered a wall.
   LICENSED PRODUCTS. The term that collectively refers to tobacco, tobacco-
related devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia delivery
products.
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigar or cigarette, or any other licensed product that has been removed from
its intended retail packaging and offered for sale. LOOSIES does not include
individual cigars with a retail price, after any discounts are applied and
before any sales taxes are imposed, of at least $2 per cigar.
   MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 18 years.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a kiosk,
truck, van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and
not a fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized
for sales transactions.
   NICOTINE or LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCTS. Any product containing or delivering
nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, or any part of such a
product, that is not tobacco or an electronic delivery device as defined in
this section. NICOTINE or LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCTS does not include any
product that has been approved or otherwise certified for legal sale by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for tobacco use cessation, or for
other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved
purpose.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where licensed products are
available for sale to the general public. The phrase shall include but not be
limited to grocery stores, convenience stores, gasoline service stations, bars,
and restaurants.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of licensed products in any manner
where any person shall have access to the licensed products without the
assistance or intervention of the licensee or the licensee's employee. The
assistance or intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the
licensed product between the customer and the licensee or employee. Self-
service sales are interpreted as being any sale where there is not an actual
physical exchange between the clerk and the customer.
   SMOKING. Inhaling or exhaling smoke from any lighted or heated cigar,
cigarette, pipe, or any other tobacco or plant product, or inhaling or exhaling
aerosol or vapor from an electronic delivery device. SMOKING includes being in
possession of a lighted or heated cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other tobacco
or plant product intended for inhalation, or an electronic delivery device that
is turned on or otherwise activated.
   TOBACCO. Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco that is
intended for human consumption, whether chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved,
inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, or any component,
part, or accessory of a tobacco product including but not limited to
cigarettes; cigars; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut, crimp
cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff flour; cavendish;
plug and twist tobacco; fine cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse
scraps, clippings, cuttings and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms
of tobacco. TOBACCO does not include any product that has been approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco-cessation
product, as a tobacco-dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is
being marketed and sold solely for such an approved purpose.
   TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES. Any pipe, rolling papers, or other device
intentionally designed or intended to be used in a manner which enables the
chewing, sniffing, smoking, or inhalation of vapors of tobacco or tobacco
products. TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES includes components of tobacco-related
devices which may be marketed or sold separately.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses licensed products upon the insertion of money, tokens or
other form of payment directly into the machine by the person seeking to
purchase the licensed product.
(Ord. 299, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 113.02 LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco,
tobacco-related device, electronic delivery device, or nicotine or lobelia
delivery product without first having obtained a license to do so from the
city.
   (B)   Application. An application for a license to sell shall be made on a
form provided by the city. The application shall contain the full name of the
applicant, the applicant's residential and business addresses and telephone
numbers, the name of the business for which the license is sought, and any
additional information the city deems necessary. Upon receipt of a completed
application, the City Administrator shall forward the application to the City
Council for action at its next regularly scheduled City Council meeting. If the
City Administrator shall determine that an application is incomplete, he or she
shall return the application to the applicant with notice of the information
necessary to make the application complete.
   (C)   Action. The City Council may either approve or deny the license, or it
may delay action for a reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
City Council shall approve the license, the City Administrator shall issue the
license to the applicant. If the City Council denies the license, notice of the
denial shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant's
right to appeal the City Council's decision.
   (D)   Term. All licenses issued shall be valid for one calendar year from
the date of issue.
   (E)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued may be revoked or
suspended as provided in §§
113.10 and
113.99.
   (F)   Transfers. All licenses issued shall be valid only on the premises for
which the license was issued and only for the person to whom the license was
issued. No transfer of any license to another location or person shall be
valid.
   (G)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed.
   (H)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premise.
   (I)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 30 days but no more than 60 days before the
expiration of the current license.
   (J)   Issuance as privilege and not a right. The issuance of a license
issued under this section shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute
right of the applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal
of the license.
   (K)   Proximity of tobacco advertising to youth-oriented facilities. No
exterior, or visible from the exterior, tobacco related signage will be allowed
in proximity to youth oriented facilities. Marketing or merchandising signage
related to tobacco or tobacco related products will not be allowed within 1,000
feet of youth oriented facilities. For the purpose of this section, a youth
oriented facility will include a school, library, public park or playground.
   (L)   Smoking prohibited. Smoking, including use of electronic delivery
devices, shall not be permitted and no person shall smoke within the indoor
area of any establishment licensed under this chapter. Smoking for the purposes
of sampling licensed products is prohibited.
   (M)   Distribution of samples prohibited. No person shall distribute samples
of any licensed product free of charge or at nominal cost.
   (N)   Minimum pack. No person shall sell, offer for sale, or otherwise
distribute any cigar or cigarette that is not in its original package.
(Ord. 299, passed 6-20-2016) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee is paid in full. The fee shall be established by the city's fee schedule
and may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 299, passed 6-20-2016) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license include but
are not limited to the following:
   (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years.
   (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to licensed products.
   (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell licensed products suspended or
revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date of application.
   (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information.
   (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation from holding a license.
   (B)   However, except as may otherwise be provided by law, the existence of
any particular ground for denial does not mean that the city must deny the
license.
   (C)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under
this chapter.
(Ord. 299, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 113.05 PROHIBITED SALES.
   (A)   In general. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to
sell or offer to sell any licensed product:
      (1)   To any person under the age of 18 years.
      (2)   By means of any type of vending machine.
      (3)   By means of loosies as defined in §
113.02.
      (4)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process. It is not the
intention of this provision to ban the sale of lawfully manufactured cigarettes
or other products subject to this chapter.
      (5)   By any other means, to any other person, on in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision, or
other regulation.
   (B)   Self-service sales. It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under
this chapter to allow the sale of licensed products by any means where by the
customer may have access to those items without having to request the item from
the licensee or the licensee's employee and whereby there is not a physical
exchange of the licensed product between the licensee or his or her clerk and
the customer. All licensed products shall either be stored behind the sales
counter or other area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other
storage unit not left open and accessible to the general public.
   (C)   Liquid packaging. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person to sell or offer to sell any liquid, whether or not such liquid contains
nicotine, which is intended for human consumption and use in an electronic
delivery device, in packaging that is not child-resistant. Upon request, a
licensee shall provide a copy of the certificate of compliance or full
laboratory testing report for the packaging used.
(Ord. 299, passed 6-20-2016) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 RESPONSIBILITY.
   Any person licensed under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions
of their employees in regard to the sale of licensed products on the licensed
premises, and the sale of an item by an employee shall be considered a sale by
the license holder. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
the city from also subjecting the clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate
under this chapter, state or federal law, or other applicable law or
regulation.
(Ord. 299, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 113.07 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by law enforcement or
other authorized city official during regular business hours. From time to
time, but at least once per year, the city, or its designated party, shall
conduct compliance checks by engaging, with the written consent of their
parents or guardians, minors over the age of 15 years but less than 18 years to
enter the licensed premise to attempt to purchase licensed products. Minors
used for the purpose of compliance checks shall be supervised by law
enforcement or other designated personnel. Minors used for compliance checks
shall not be guilty of illegal possession when those items are obtained as a
part of the compliance check. No minor used in compliance checks shall attempt
to use a false identification misrepresenting the minor's age, and all minors
lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all questions about the
minor's age asked by the licensee or his or her employee and shall produce any
identification, if any exists, for which he or she is asked. Nothing in this
section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by state or federal laws
for educational, research, or training purposes, or required for the
enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(Ord. 299, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 113.08 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter:
   (A)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
to sell or otherwise provide any licensed product to any minor.
   (B)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to have in his or her possession any licensed product. This shall not
apply to minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (C)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to
smoke, chew, sniff or otherwise use any licensed product.
   (D)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any licensed
product, and it shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to purchase
or otherwise obtain those items on behalf of a minor. It shall further be a
violation for any person to coerce or attempt to coerce a minor to illegally
purchase or otherwise obtain or use any licensed product. This shall not apply
to minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (E)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any minor to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of a false
form of identification, whether the identification is that of another person or
one on which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with to
represent an age older than the actual age of the person.
(Ord. 299, passed 6-20-2016) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco or tobacco-
related devices to a minor as part of a lawfully recognized religious,
spiritual, or cultural ceremony. It shall be an affirmative defense to the
violation of this chapter for a person to have reasonably relied on proof of
age as described by state law.
(Ord. 299, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 113.10 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice. A person violating this chapter may be issued, either
personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the alleged violation and
that informs the alleged violator of his or her right to a hearing on the
matter. The citation shall provide notice that a hearing must be requested
within ten business days of receipt and that hearing rights shall be terminated
if a hearing is not promptly requested. The citation shall provide information
on how and where a hearing may be requested, including a contact address and
phone number.
   (B)   Hearings.
      (1)   Upon issuance of a citation, a person accused of violating this
chapter may request in writing a hearing on the matter. Hearing requests must
be made within ten business days of the issuance of the citation and delivered
to the City Administrator or other designated city officer. Failure to request
a hearing within ten business days of the issuance of the citation will
terminate the person's right to a hearing.
      (2)   The City Administrator or other designated city officer shall set
the time and place for the hearing. Written notice of the hearing time and
place shall be mailed or delivered to the accused violator at least ten
business days prior to the hearing.
   (C)   Hearing officer(s). The Hearing Officer shall be the City
Administrator or his or her designee.
   (D)   Decision. A decision shall be issued by the Hearing Officer(s) within
ten business days. If the Hearing Officer determines that a violation did
occur, that decision, along with the Hearing Officer's reasons for finding a
violation and the penalty to be imposed under §
113.99, shall be recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be provided to the
city and the accused violator by in person delivery or mail as soon as
practicable Likewise, if the Hearing Officer finds that no violation occurred
or find grounds for not imposing any penalty, those findings shall be recorded
and a copy provided to the city and the acquitted accused violator by in person
delivery or mail as soon as practicable. The decision of the Hearing Officer is
final.
   (E)   Costs. If the citation is upheld by the Hearing Officer, the city's
actual expenses in holding the hearing up to a maximum of $25 shall be paid by
the person requesting the hearing.
   (F)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer shall be
filed in the office of the City Administrator for the city in which the alleged
violation occurred within ten business days. A hearing will be set before the
full City Council. The City Council will then hear this matter and determine
the merits of the party's position and render a decision.
   (G)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offenses.
(Ord. 299, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Administrative penalties.
      (1)   Licensees. Any licensee found to have violated this chapter, or
whose employee shall have violated this chapter, shall be charged an
administrative fine of $100 for a first violation; $250 for a second offense at
the same licensed premises within a 24-month period; and $400 for a third or
subsequent offense at the same location within a 24 month period. In addition,
upon a third violation, the license shall be suspended for not less than
14consecutive days. Upon a fourth violation, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   Other individuals. Other individuals, other than minors regulated
by division (A)(3) of this section, found to be in violation of this chapter
shall be charged an administrative fine of $50.
      (3)   Minors. Minors found in unlawful possession of or who unlawfully
purchase or attempt to purchase licensed products shall be subject to an
administrative fine, or may be subject to tobacco-related education classes,
diversion programs, community services, or another penalty that the city
believes will be appropriate and effective. The administrative fine or other
penalty shall be established by the City Council upon consultation with
interested parties of the courts, educators, parents and children to determine
an appropriate penalty for minors in the city. This administrative fine or
other penalty may be established by ordinance and may be amended from time to
time.
      (4)   Statutory penalties. If the administrative penalties authorized to
be imposed by M.S. § 461.12, as it may be amended from time to time, differ
from those established in this section, then the higher penalties shall
prevail.
   (B)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 299, passed 6-20-2016)
CHAPTER 114: COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
114.01   Bowling; billiards and pool
   
114.02   Circuses, carnivals, shows and other entertainment
   
114.03   Deposit required
   
114.04   License fee for public entertainment or exhibition
   
114.05   Amusement rides
§ 114.01 BOWLING; BILLIARDS AND POOL.
   Each proprietor of a billiard or pool table or of a bowling alley, or a
combination of both, shall pay an annual license fee in an amount established
by the City Council from time to time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.02 CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS, SHOWS AND OTHER ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to M.S. § 437.07, as it may be amended from time to
time, each person, desiring to conduct, stage or give a circus, carnival,
theatrical exhibition, public show, athletic game or other entertainment, for
which there is a charge for admission, shall first obtain a license and pay the
license fee or fees as that fee may be set by City Council from time to time.
      (2)   Local school entertainment, charitable organizations, lecture
courses, and lectures on historic, literary or scientific subjects are not
subject to the provisions of this section.
   (B)   In addition to any other requirements, the applicant for a license
shall give at least one week's notice in writing to the City Administrator or
other authorized official, stating the dates of the performances and the
location at which the performances are to be presented. The City Administrator
shall give his or her consent to the issuance of the license if he or she deems
that the location is suitable for the purpose; that it will properly
accommodate the patrons; that the nature of the performance or exhibition does
not pose a threat to the health, safety or general welfare of the public; and
that the use of the location will not create too great a burden upon the Police
Department or the Fire Department.
   (C)   No circus, carnival, theatrical exhibition, public show, athletic game
or other entertainment shall be given for more than two consecutive days,
except in cases where the City Council by resolution allows a longer period, or
where the exhibition is to be conducted on municipal property and the use
thereof for a longer period shall have been approved by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.03 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   At the time application for a license is made, where use of municipal
grounds is contemplated, the applicant shall deposit with the City
Administrator or other designated municipal official a cash bond in an amount
to be determined by the City Council, conditioned upon the restoration and
cleaning up of the grounds in a manner satisfactory to the Mayor. In the event
the grounds are restored and cleaned up properly following the exhibition, the
deposit shall be returned; otherwise the same shall be forfeited to the city to
the extent of actual costs to the city for restoration and cleaning up of the
grounds.
   (B)   No licensee shall fail to restore or clean up the grounds upon which
the circus, carnival or other entertainment has taken place.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 LICENSE FEE FOR PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENT OR EXHIBITION.
   The fee for the license shall be in an amount asset by City Council from
time to time.
§ 114.05 AMUSEMENT RIDES.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section AMUSEMENT RIDE shall mean a
mechanical device that carries or conveys passengers along, around, or over a
fixed or restricted route or course for the purpose of giving its passengers
amusement, pleasure, thrills, or excitement subject to regulation under M.S. §
184B.01 through § 184B.09, as it may be amended from time to time. AMUSEMENT
RIDE does not include:
       (1)   A coin-operated ride that is manually, mechanically, or
electrically operated and customarily placed in a public location and that does
not normally require the supervision or services of an operator; or
      (2)   Nonmechanized playground equipment, including but not limited to
swings, seesaws, stationary spring-mounted animal features, rider-propelled
merry-go-rounds, climbers, playground slides, trampolines, and physical fitness
devices.
   (B)   A person, firm, corporation or association must not operate an
amusement ride without first obtaining a license under §
114.02 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time and
providing the City Administrator with a copy of:
      (1)   A certificate stating that the insurance required by M.S. §
184B.02, as it may be amended from time to time, is in effect; and
      (2)   An affidavit attesting that the inspection required by M.S. §
184B.03, as it may be amended from time to time, has been performed. The City
Administrator, upon receipt shall furnish such information to the local law
enforcement office.
CHAPTER 115: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
115.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
115.04   License ineligibility
   
115.05   Suspension and revocation
   
115.06   Transferability
   
115.07   Registration
   
115.08   Prohibited activities
   
115.09   Exclusion by placard
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NON-COMMERCIAL DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCATE. A person who goes door-to-door for the
primary purpose of disseminating religious, political, social, or other
ideological beliefs. For purpose of this chapter, the term door-to-door
advocate shall fall under the term solicitor and include door-to-door
canvassing and pamphleteering intended for non-commercial purposes.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of offering for sale, displaying for exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise, or other personnel property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. For purpose of this chapter, the term PEDDLER shall
have the same common meaning as the term hawker.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership, or similar association.
   PROFESSIONAL FUNDRAISER. Any person, including a corporation or other
entity, who, for compensation, performs any solicitations or other services for
a religious, politician, social, or other charitable organization.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the city hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be considered regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property, or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. For purposes of this
chapter, the term SOLICITOR shall have the same meaning as the term canvasser.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering goods, wares, products, merchandise, or other personal
property and who does not remain in any one location for more than 14
consecutive days.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 115.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the terms PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and
TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to:
      (1)   Non-commercial door-to-door advocates. Nothing within this chapter
shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict non-commercial door-to-door
advocates. Person engaging in non-commercial door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as a solicitor under §
115.07.
      (2)   Wholesalers. Any person selling or attempting to sell at wholesale
any goods, wares, products, merchandise, or other personal property to a retail
seller of the items being sold by the wholesaler.
      (3)   Regular customer delivery route. Any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products, such as baked goods or milk.
      (4)   Perishables; established delivery route. Any person making
deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers on his or her
established delivery route.
      (5)   Publications; regular delivery routes, delivery to community at
large. Any person making deliveries of newspapers, newsletters, or other
similar publications on an established customer delivery route, when attempting
to establish a regular delivery route, or when publications are delivered to
the community at large.
      (6)   Garage sales, rummage sales, estate sales. Any person conducting
the type of sale commonly known as garage sales, rummage sales, or estate
sales.
      (7)   Bazaars and flea markets. Any person participating in an organized
multi-person bazaar or flea market.
      (8)   Auctions Any person conducting an auction as a properly licensed
auctioneer.
      (9)    Court-ordered sales Any officer of the court conducting a court-
ordered sale.
      (10)   Not-for-profit, local fundraisers. Nothing within this chapter
shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict not-for-profit, local fundraisers.
Person(s) engaging in not-for-profit, local fundraisers shall not be required
to register as a solicitor under §
115.07.
   (B)   Exemption from these definitions shall not, for the scope of this
chapter, excuse any person from complying with any other applicable statutory
provision or requirement provided by another city ordinance.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 115.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business within this jurisdiction as a peddler
or a transient merchant without first obtaining a city license. Solicitors need
not be licensed, but are required to register with the city pursuant to §
115.07.
   (B)   Application. An application for a city license to conduct business as
a peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting a business operation within
the city. Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the
City Council and available from the office of the City Administrator. All
applications shall be signed by the applicant. All applications shall include
the following information:
      (1)   Name and physical description of the applicant;
      (2)   A brief description of the proposed activity, its location, and the
merchandise or service involved;
      (3)   The dates and hours of the day during which the activity will be
conducted;
      (4)   Whether or not the applicant has been convicted of any crime other
than petty traffic violations, the nature, time and location of the offense and
the punishment or penalty imposed;
      (5)   The last cities or other localities, not exceeding five, where the
applicant conducted the proposed activity immediately preceding the date of the
application and where within those areas the activity took place;
      (6)   Make, model, year, color, and state license number of each motor
vehicle to be used in connection with the proposed activity;
      (7)   The name, address, and phone number of the person or company
employing the individual; and
      (8)   A copy of all documents to be used by the applicant in the
regulated activity.
   (C)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the city licensing fee schedule as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the application and payment of the license
fee, the City Administrator will, within two regular business days, determine
if the application is complete. An application will be considered complete if
all required information is provided. If the City Administrator determines that
the application is incomplete, the City Administrator must inform the applicant
of the required, necessary information that is missing. If the application is
complete, the City Administrator must order any investigation, including
background checks, necessary to verify the information provided with the
application. Within ten regular business days of receiving a complete
application the City Administrator must issue the license unless grounds exist
for denying the license application under Section 4, in which case the
Administrator must deny the request for a city peddler or transient merchant
license. If the City Administrator denies the license application, the
applicant must be notified in writing of the decision, the reason for denial
and the applicant's right to appeal the denial by requesting, within 20 days of
receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing before the City Council. The
City Council shall hear the appeal with 20 days of the date of the request for
a hearing. The decision of the City Council following the public hearing can be
appealed by petitioning the Minnesota Court of Appeals for a writ of
certiorari.
   (E)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issuance. All other licenses granted to
peddlers and transient merchants under this chapter shall be valid only during
the time period indicated on the license.
   (F)   Professional fundraisers not exempt. A professional fundraiser working
on behalf of an otherwise exempt group or person shall not be exempt from the
licensing requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required for any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or any other type
of place-to-place movement for the primary purpose of exercising that person's
state or federal constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, freedom
of the press, freedom of religion, and the like.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 115.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a peddler or transient merchant
license:
   (A)   The failure of an applicant to truthfully provide any information
requested by the city as part of the application process.
   (B)   The failure of an applicant to sign the license application.
   (C)   The failure of an applicant to pay the required fee at the time of
application.
   (D)   A conviction with the past five years of the date of application for
any violation of any federal or state statute or regulation, or of any local
ordinance, which adversely reflects upon the person's ability to conduct the
business for which the license is being sought in a professional, honest and
legal manner. Such violations shall include, but are not limited to, burglary,
theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and any form of
actual or threatened physical harm against another person.
   (E)   The revocation with the past five years of any license issued to an
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or
transient merchant.
   (F)   When an applicant has a bad business reputation. Evidence of a bad
business reputation shall include, but is not limited to, the existence of more
than three complaints against an applicant with the Better Business Bureau, the
Office of the Minnesota Attorney General or other state attorney general's
office, or other similar business or consumer rights office or agency, with the
preceding 12 months, or three complaints filed with the city against an
applicant within the preceding five years.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 115.05 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Subsequent knowledge by the city of fraud, misrepresentation or
incorrect statements provided by an applicant on the application form.
       (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the
course of the licensed activity.
       (3)   Subsequent conviction of any offense to which the granting of the
license could have been denied under §
115.04.
      (4)   Engaging in any prohibited activity as provided under §
115.08.
      (5)   Violation of any other provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person's authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
    (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide a license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, of if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Administrator within ten days
following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with the suspension
or revocation. For the purpose of a mailed notice, service shall be considered
complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a public hearing
is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be scheduled within
20 days from the date of the request for the public hearing. Within three
regular business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the
licensee of its decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person's license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeal. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 115.06 TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 115.07 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All solicitors and any person exempt from the licensing requirements
of this chapter under §
115.03 shall be required to register with the city prior to engaging in those
activities. Registration shall be made on the same form required for a license
application, but no fee shall be required. Immediately upon completion of the
registration form, the City Administrator shall issue to the registrant a
certificate of registration as proof of the registration. Certificates of
registration shall be non-transferrable.
    (B)   Individuals that will be engaging in non-commercial door-to-door
advocacy shall not be required to register.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 115.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door
advocate, or other person engaged in other similar activities shall conduct
business in any of the following manner:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or the items to be sold by
means of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any
other noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure.
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of traffic, either vehicular or pedestrian,
on any street, sidewalk, alleyway, or other public right-of-way.
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of any specific individual or the general public.
   (D)   Conducting business before 8 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m.
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license, or registration, and
identification when requested.
   (F)   Using the license or registration of another person.
   (G)   Alleging false or misleading statements about the products or services
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor,
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person.
   (H)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave.
   (I)   Otherwise operating their business in any manner that a reasonable
person would find obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 115.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   (A)   Unless specifically invited by the property owner or tenant, no
peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate,
or other person engaged in other similar activities shall enter onto the
property of another for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler,
solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate, or similar
activity when the property is marked with a sign or placard:
      (1)   At least four inches long.
      (2)   At least four inches wide.
      (3)   With print of at least 48 point in size.
      (4)   Stating “No Peddlers, Solicitors or Transient Merchants,”
“Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient Merchants Prohibited,” or other comparable
statement.
   (B)   No person other than the property owner or tenant shall remove,
deface, or otherwise tamper with any sign or placard under this section.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-1-2016)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any individual found in violation of any provision of this chapter, shall be
a guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 301, passed 8-1-2016)
CHAPTER 116: CONVENTION AND VISITOR’S BUREAU/LODGING TAX
Section
   
116.01   Convention and Visitor’s Bureau
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Imposition of tax
   
116.04   Collections
   
116.05   Exceptions and exemptions
   
116.06   Advertising no tax
   
116.07   Payment and returns
   
116.08   Examination of return, adjustments, notices and demands
   
116.09   Refunds
   
116.10   Failure to file a return
   
116.11   Examine records
   
116.12   Contract with state
   
116.13   Violations
   
116.14   Use of proceeds
   
116.15   Appeals
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 CONVENTION AND VISITOR’S BUREAU.
   A Convention and Visitor's Bureau shall be established with the purpose of
marketing and promoting the city as a tourist and convention center. The
Convention and Visitor's Bureau may have a director to be chosen by the City
Council and who will act at the direction of the City Administrator. The
Convention and Visitor's Bureau shall promote the city as a convention and
tourist destination.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply:
   LODGER. The person obtaining lodging from an operator.
   LODGING. The furnishing for consideration of lodging by a hotel, motel, or
rooming house expect where said lodging shall be for a continuous period of 30
days or more to the same lodger(s). The furnishing of rooms by religious,
education or nonprofit organizations shall not constitute lodging for the
purposes of this chapter.
   OPERATOR. The person that provides lodging to others or any officer, agent
or employee of such person.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, estate,
receiver, trustee, executor, administrator, assignee, syndicate, or any
combination of individuals, whenever the term person is used in any provision
of this chapter prescribing and imposing a penalty, the term as applied to a
corporation, association, or partnership, shall mean the officer, or partners
thereof as the case may be.
   RENT. The total consideration valued in money charged for lodging whether
paid in money or otherwise, but shall not include any charges for services
rendered in connection with furnishing lodging other than the room charge
itself.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 116.03 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed a tax of 3% on the rent charged by an operator for
providing lodging to any person. The tax shall be stated and charged separately
and shall be collected by the operator from the lodger. The tax collected by
the operator shall be a debt owed by the operator to the city and shall be
extinguished only by payment to the city. In no case shall the tax imposed by
this section upon an operator exceed the amount of tax which the operator is
authorized and required by this chapter to collect from a lodger.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 116.04 COLLECTIONS.
   Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter at the time the
rent is paid. The tax collections shall be deemed to be held in trust by the
operator for the city. The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the
rent charged for the lodging and those persons paying the tax shall receive a
receipt of payment from the operator.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-5-2023) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.05 EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exceptions. No tax shall be imposed on rent for lodging paid by an
officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason of express
provisions of federal law or international treaty.
   (B)   Exemptions. An exemption shall be granted to any person as to whom or
whose occupancy it is beyond the power of the city to tax. No exemption shall
be granted except upon a claim thereof made at the time the rent is collected
and such claim shall be made in writing and under the penalty of perjury on
forms provided by the city. Any such claims shall be forwarded to the city when
the returns and collections are submitted as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 116.06 ADVERTISING NO TAX.
   It shall be unlawful for any operator to advertise or hold out or state to
the public or any customer, directly or indirectly, that the tax or any party
thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be
added to the rent or that, if added, it or any part thereof will be refunded.
In computing the tax to be collected, amounts of tax less than one cent shall
be considered an additional cent.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-5-2023) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.07 PAYMENT AND RETURNS.
   (A)   The taxes imposed by this chapter shall be paid by the operator to the
city monthly, not later than 25 days after the end of the month in which the
taxes were collected. At the time of payment, the operator shall submit a
return upon such forms and containing such information as the city may require.
The return shall contain the following minimum information:
      (1)   The total amount collected for lodging during the period covered by
the return;
      (2)   The amount of the tax required to be collected during the period
covered by the return;
      (3)   The signature of the person filing the return or that of his or her
agent duly authorized in writing;
      (4)   The period covered by the return; and
      (5)   The amount of uncollectible rental charges subject to the lodging
tax.
   (B)   The operator may offset against the taxes payable with respect to any
reporting period the amount of taxes imposed by this chapter previously paid as
a result of any transaction, the consideration for which became uncollectible
during such reporting period, but only in proportion to the portion of such
which became uncollectible.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-5-2023) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.08 EXAMINATION OF RETURN, ADJUSTMENTS, NOTICES AND DEMANDS.
   The city after a return is filed may examine the same and make any
investigation or examination of the records and accounts of the person making
the return deemed necessary for determining its correctness. The tax computed
on the basis of such examination shall be the tax to be paid. If the tax due is
found to be greater than that paid, such excess shall be paid to the city
within ten days after receipt of a notice thereof is either given personally or
sent by registered mail to the address shown on the return. If the tax paid is
greater than the tax found to be due, the excess shall be refunded to the
person who paid the tax within ten days of determination of the refund.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 116.09 REFUNDS.
   Any person may apply to the city for a refund of taxes paid for a prescribed
period in excess of the amount legally due for that period, provided that no
application for refund will be considered, unless filed within one year after
such tax was paid, or within one year of filing the return, whichever is
longer. The city shall review the application and make written findings either
allowing or denying the claim and shall serve the written findings on the
application.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 116.10 FAILURE TO FILE A RETURN.
   (A)   If any operator required by this chapter to file a return shall fail
to do so in the time prescribed, or shall make, willfully or otherwise, an
incorrect, false, or fraudulent return, the operator shall, upon written notice
and demand, file such return or corrected return within five days of the
receipt of such written notice and shall at the same time pay any tax due on
the basis thereof. If such person shall fail to file a return or corrected
return, the city shall make a return or corrected return, for such person from
such knowledge and information as the city can obtain, and assess a tax on the
basis thereof, which tax (less any payments theretofore made on account of the
tax for the taxable period covered by such return) shall be paid within five
days of the receipt of written notice and demand for such payment. Any such
return or assessment made by the city shall be prima facie correct and valid,
and such person shall have the burden of establishing its incorrectness or
invalidity in any action or proceeding in respect thereto.
   (B)   If any portion of the tax imposed by this chapter, including penalties
thereon, is not paid within 30 days after it is required to be paid, the city
attorney may institute such legal action as may be necessary to recover the
amount plus interest, penalties and the costs and disbursements of any action.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-5-2023) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.11 EXAMINE RECORDS.
   The city or its agent authorized by the city may examine the books, papers
and records of any operator in order to verify the accuracy of any return made,
or if no return was made, to ascertain the tax as provided in this chapter.
Every such operator is directed and required to give the city or its agent the
means, facilities and opportunity for such examinations and investigations as
are hereby authorized.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-5-2023) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.12 CONTRACT WITH STATE.
   The City Administrator is authorized to confer with the Minnesota
Commissioner of Taxation to the end that an agreement between the city and the
Commissioner of Taxation may be entered into for the purpose of providing for
the administration and collection of taxes imposed by this chapter. Such an
agreement shall not become effective until presented to the City Council for
its approval and when approved the tax imposed by this chapter shall be
collected and administered pursuant to the terms of said agreement.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 116.13 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who shall willfully fail to make a return required by this
chapter, or who shall fail to pay the tax after written demand for payment; or
who shall fail to remit the taxes collected or any penalty or interest imposed
by this chapter after written demand for such payments; or who shall refuse to
permit the city or an agent of the city to examine the books, records and
papers under his or her control, or who shall willfully make any incomplete,
false or fraudulent return shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-5-2023) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.14 USE OF PROCEEDS.
   Ninety-five percent (95%) of the proceeds obtained from the collection of
taxes under this chapter shall be used in accordance with M.S. § 469.190 as it
may be amended from time to time, and will be used to fund a local Convention
or Tourism Bureau for the purpose of marketing and promoting the city as a
tourist or convention center.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 116.15 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any operator aggrieved by any notice, order or determination made the
city under this chapter may file a petition for review of such notice, order or
determination detailing the operator's reasons for contesting the notice, order
or determination. The petition shall contain the name of the petitioner, the
petitioner's address and the location of the lodging such to the order, notice
or determination.
   (B)   The petition for review shall be filed with the City Administrator
within ten days after notice, order or determination for which review is sought
or has been mailed upon the person requesting review.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the petition, the City Administrator or his/her
designee shall set a date for a hearing and give the petitioner at least five
days prior written notice of the date, time and place of the hearing.
   (D)   At the hearing the petitioner shall be allowed to show cause why the
notice, order or determination should be modified or withdrawn. The petitioner
may be represented by counsel of the petitioner's choosing at the petitioner's
own expense.
   (E)   The hearing shall be before the City Council.
   (F)   The City Council shall make findings of fact, conclusions of law based
upon the applicable sections of this chapter and the evidence presented.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any tax imposed by this chapter is not paid within the time frame
specified for the payment of any extension thereof, there shall be added
thereto a specific penalty of 10% of the amount remaining unpaid.
   (B)   In the case of any failure to make and file a return within the time
prescribed in this chapter, unless it is shown that such failure is not due to
willful neglect, there shall be added to the tax in addition to the tax imposed
in division (A) above, 10% if the failure is not for more than 30 days with an
additional 5% for each additional 30 days or fraction thereof during which such
failure continues, not exceeding 25% in the aggregate. If the penalty as
computed does not exceed $10, a minimum penalty of $10 will be accessed. The
amount so added to any tax shall be collected at the same time and in the same
manner as a part of the tax unless the tax has been paid before the discovery
of the negligence, in which case the amount so added shall be collected in the
same manner as the tax.
   (C)   If a person willfully failed to file any return or make any payment
required by this chapter, or willfully files a false or fraudulent return or
willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any such tax or payment
thereof, there shall also be imposed as a penalty an amount equal to 50% of any
tax (less any amounts paid on the basis of such false or fraudulent return)
found due for the period to which such return is related. The penalty imposed
in this division shall be collected as part of the tax and in addition to any
other penalties provided by this chapter.
   (D)   All payments received shall be credited to penalties first, next to
interest, and then to the tax due.
   (E)   The amount of tax not timely paid, together with any penalty provided
by this section, shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the time
the tax should have been paid until paid. Any interest and penalty shall be
added to the amount of tax and be collected as part thereof.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 6-5-2023)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
      
131.   MINORS; CURFEW
      
132.   MISDEMEANORS
      
133.   SEX OFFENDERS
CHAPTER 130: MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Hosting an event or gathering where alcohol is present and being
possessed or consumed by persons under 21 years of age
§ 130.01 HOSTING AN EVENT OR GATHERING WHERE ALCOHOL IS PRESENT AND BEING
POSSESSED OR CONSUMED BY PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   Purpose and findings.
      (1)   The City Council intends to discourage underage possession and
consumption of alcohol, even if done within the confines of a private
residence, and intends to hold persons criminally responsible who host events
or gatherings where persons under 21 years of age possess or consume alcohol,
regardless of whether the person hosting the event or gathering supplied the
alcohol.
      (2)   The City Council finds that:
         (a)   Events and gatherings held on private or public property where
alcohol is possessed or consumed by persons under the age of 21 are harmful to
those persons and constitute a potential threat to public health requiring
prevention or abatement;
         (b)   Prohibiting underage consumption acts to protect underage
persons, as well as the general public, from injuries related to alcohol
consumption, such as alcohol overdose or alcohol-related traffic collisions;
         (c)   Alcohol is an addictive drug which if used irresponsibly could
have drastic effects on those who use it as well as those who are affected by
the actions of an irresponsible user;
         (d)   Often events or gatherings involving underage possession and
consumption occur outside the presence of parents; however, there are times
when the parent(s) is/are present and condone the activity and in some
circumstances provide the alcohol;
         (e)   Even though giving or furnishing alcohol to an underage person
is a crime, it is difficult to prove; and regulations are necessary to help
further combat underage consumption; and
         (f)   A deterrent effect will be created by holding a person
criminally responsible for hosting an event or gathering where underage
possession or consumption occurs.
   (B)   Authority. This section is enacted pursuant to the City Charter and
state statutes.
   (C)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol; hydrated oxide of ethyl; or spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin or any other distilled spirits, including dilutions
and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer and every liquid
or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and which contains 0.5% or
more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes either alone
or when diluted, mixed or combined with other substances.
      EVENT or GATHERING. Any group of three or more persons who have assembled
or gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
      HOST. To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control or
permit a gathering or event.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
         (a)   As natural/adoptive parent or stepparent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian; or
         (c)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
      RESIDENCE or PREMISES. Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment,
condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting
room, park or any other place of assembly, public or private, where occupied on
a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or specifically
for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased, rented or used
with or without permission or compensation.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. Any individual under 21 years of age.
   (D)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person(s) to:
         (a)   Host or allow an event or gathering at any residence, premises
or on any other private or public property where alcohol or alcoholic beverages
are present, when the person knows or reasonably should know that an underage
person will or does:
            1.   Consume any alcohol or alcoholic beverage; or
            2.   Possess any alcohol or alcoholic beverage with the intent to
consume it.
         (b)   The person fails to take reasonable steps to prevent possession
or consumption by the underage person(s).
      (2)   A person is criminally responsible for violating division (D)(1)
above if the person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels or conspires
with or otherwise procures another to commit the prohibited act.
      (3)   A person who hosts an event or gathering does not have to be
present at the event or gathering to be criminally responsible.
   (E)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section does not apply to conduct solely between an underage
person and his or her parents while present in the parent’s household.
      (2)   This section does not apply to legally-protected religious
observances.
      (3)   This section does not apply to retail intoxicating liquor or 3.2%
malt liquor licensees, municipal liquor stores or bottle club permit holders
who are regulated by M.S. § 340A.503 Subd. 1(a)(1).
      (4)   This section does not apply to situations where underage persons
are lawfully in possession of alcohol or alcoholic beverages during the course
and scope of employment.
   (F)   Enforcement. This section can be enforced by any police officer or
sheriff’s deputy in the city.
   (G)   Penalty. Violation of division (D) above is a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 284, passed 10-3-2011)
CHAPTER 131: MINORS; CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Purposes
   
131.03   Curfew for minors
   
131.04   Exceptions
   
131.05   Parental responsibility
   
131.06   Procedures
   
131.07   Violations
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number include the plural number. The word “shall” is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   CITY. The City of Lake Crystal, Minnesota.
   CUSTODIAN. Any person over the age of 18 who is acting in loco parentis to a
juvenile.
   GUARDIAN. Any person other than a parent, who has legal guardianship over
the minor.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 who has not been emancipated.
   PARENT. The natural or adoptive parent of the minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment or other lawful purpose. A PUBLIC PLACE shall include,
but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley,
café, theater, drug store, pool room, shopping center, park and any other place
devoted to amusement or entertainment of the general public. PUBLIC PLACE shall
also include the front or immediate area of the above.
(Ord. 219, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 131.02 PURPOSES.
   The City Council has enacted this chapter for the following legislative
purposes:
   (A)   To reduce juvenile crime and violence within the city;
   (B)   To protect juveniles from becoming involved in unlawful activities and
becoming prey to older perpetrators of crime; and
   (C)   To strengthen parental responsibility.
(Ord. 219, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 131.03 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 to remain, idle,
wander, stroll or play in any public place either on foot or to cruise about
without any destination in any vehicle, about or upon any place in the city
between the hours of 12:01 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. Monday through Sunday.
(Ord. 219, passed 9-20-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to minors in the following situations:
   (A)   When a minor is participating in any activity during curfew hours when
accompanied by a parent, guardian or custodian;
   (B)   When a minor is engaged in employment activities;
   (C)   When a minor is participating or attending supervised activities
sponsored by a school, civic, religious or other public organization;
   (D)   When a minor is engaged in the activity of interstate travel;
   (E)   When a minor is on a public sidewalk or other public place abutting
their parent’s residence;
   (F)   When a minor has been emancipated, and by law is no longer considered
to be a minor;
   (G)   When a minor is involved in an emergency; or
   (H)   When a minor is exercising his or her First Amendment rights as
protected by the United States and Minnesota Constitutions, such as the free
exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the right of assembly.
(Ord. 219, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 131.05 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person having
control and custody of any minor under the age of 18 to suffer or permit or to
exercise insufficient control to allow the minor to be on the streets or
sidewalks or in any public property or public place within the city between the
hours of 12:01 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. Monday through Sunday; however, the
provisions of this section do not apply to minors accompanied by his or her
parent, guardian, custodian or other adult having person having the care,
custody or control of the minor, or if the minor is engaged in any activity
listed in §
131.04, or if the parent, guardian or other adult person herein has made a
missing person notification to the Police Department.
(Ord. 219, passed 9-20-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any police officer upon finding a minor in violation of §
131.03 shall ascertain the name and address of the minor and warn the minor
that he or she is in violation of curfew and shall direct the minor to proceed
at once to his or her home or usual place of abode. The police officer shall
report the action to the Chief of the Police Department and either the Chief of
the Police Department or the police officer shall notify the parents, guardian,
custodian or other person having custody or control of the minor.
   (B)   If the minor refuses to heed the warning or direction by any police
officer or refuses to give the police officer his or her correct name and
address, or if the minor has been warned on a previous occasion that he or she
is in violation of the curfew, he or she shall be taken the City Police
Department and the parent, guardian, custodian or other person having custody
or control of the minor shall be notified to come and take charge of the minor.
If the parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person above can not be
located or fails to come and take charge of the minor, the minor shall be
released to the juvenile authorities.
(Ord. 219, passed 9-20-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.07 VIOLATIONS.
   Any minor violating the provision of this chapter shall be dealt with in
accordance with the Juvenile Court law and procedures. Any parent, guardian,
custodian or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor
violating this chapter shall, after previously being notified under §
131.06 be fined as prescribed in §
10.99.
(Ord. 219, passed 9-20-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: MISDEMEANORS
Section
   
132.01   Weapons
§ 132.01 WEAPONS.
   No person shall fire or discharge any cannon, gun, pistol or firearms of any
description, or explode or set off any combustible or explosive material within
the limits of the city without the permission of the City Council.
(Ord. 2, passed 10-10-1887) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: SEX OFFENDERS
Section
   
133.01   Findings
   
133.02   Definitions
   
133.03   Measurement of distance
   
133.04   Prohibited locations of residence
   
133.05   Exceptions
   
133.06   Property owners prohibited from renting real property to designated
predatory offenders in any exclusion zone
   
133.07   Misdemeanor
§ 133.01 FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds that repeat predatory offenders present a real threat
to public safety and that the safety of children in particular is a concern.
Certain predatory offenders are likely to use physical violence and present a
high risk to repeat their offenses, and it is likely that most such predatory
offenders have committed more offenses than they have been convicted of, and
have more victims than have been reported. This makes dealing with the
potential danger posed by repeat predatory offenders extremely important.
(Ord. 294, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 133.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD. Any person under the age of 18.
   DESIGNATED PREDATORY OFFENDER. Any person that is required to register as a
predatory sexual offender under M.S. § 243.166, as it may be amended from time
to time, or any successor statute, and who has been categorized as a Level III
predatory offender under M.S. § 244.052, Subd. 2, as it may be amended from
time to time, or any successor statute, or a similar statute from another
state.
   LICENSED CHILD CARE CENTER. A child care center that is licensed by Blue
Earth County, Minnesota Public Health and Human Services.
   PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges or resides for 14
or more consecutive days. An ownership or leasehold interest is not required.
   PUBLIC PARK/PLAYGROUND/RECREATIONAL CENTER. Any city-owned, county-owned,
state-owned or privately-owned but open to the public area, designed, equipped
and set aside for children’s play and includes in that area such facilities as
play equipment, surfacing, fencing, signs, internal pathways, internal land
forms, vegetation and related structures.
   PUBLIC TRAIL. A trail designated by a city, county, state or federal
government for the use of the public for recreational pursuits such as hiking,
walking, running or cycling.
   SCHOOL. Any public or nonpublic preschool, elementary or secondary school.
   TEMPORARY RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges or resides for a
period of 14 or more days in the aggregate during any 365-day period (year) and
which is not the person’s permanent address or a place where the person
routinely abides, lodges or resides for a period of four or more consecutive or
non-consecutive days in any month and which is not the person’s permanent
residence.
(Ord. 294, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 133.03 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE.
   For purposes of determining the minimum distance of separation, the
requirement shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer
property line of the permanent residence or temporary residence to the nearest
out property line of the properties listed in §
133.04.
(Ord. 294, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 133.04 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS OF RESIDENCE.
   It is unlawful for any designated predatory offender to establish a
permanent residence or temporary residence within 2,000 feet of any of the
following:
   (A)   Public or private school;
   (B)   Licensed child care provider, including, but not limited to, home care
providers which are licensed by the state and/or county;
   (C)   Public parks;
   (D)   Public playgrounds;
   (E)   Recreational center;
   (F)   Place of worship that provide regular educational programs to
individuals under the age of 18;
   (G)   Designated public trails;
   (H)   Public and private gymnasiums;
   (I)   Public and private libraries open to the public;
   (J)   Public beaches;
   (K)   Sports facilities (i.e., baseball fields, softball fields, footballs
fields, ice rinks, hockey rinks, soccer fields, basketball courts, sliding
hills, tennis courts, volleyball courts and the like) where children are known
to congregate; or
   (L)   The permanent or temporary residence of any other designated predatory
offender.
(Ord. 294, passed 10-5-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   This section shall not apply under the following circumstances:
   (A)   The designated predatory offender established the permanent residence
or temporary residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to
M.S. § 243.167, as they may be amended from time to time, or a successor
statute, prior to October 1, 2015;
   (B)   The designated predatory offender was a minor when convicted of the
offense and has not been convicted of an offense as an adult;
   (C)   The designated predatory offender is a minor;
   (D)   The designated predatory offender has been granted a risk reduction by
the End of Confinement Review Committee, pursuant to M.S. § 244.052, Subd. 3
(i), as it may be amended from time to time, or a successor statute;
   (E)   The school, licensed child care center, public park, recreational are
or sport facility, was opened after the designated predatory offender
established the permanent or temporary residence and properly reported and
registered the same pursuant to M.S. § 243.167, as they may be amended from
time to time, or a successor statute;
   (F)   The residence is also the primary residence of the designated
predatory offender’s parents, grandparents, siblings, spouse or child and this
was their residence prior to October 1, 2015; or
   (G)   The residence if property purchased, leased or contracted with and
licensed by the State Department of Corrections prior to October 1, 2015.
(Ord. 294, passed 10-5-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.06 PROPERTY OWNERS PROHIBITED FROM RENTING REAL PROPERTY TO DESIGNATED
PREDATORY OFFENDERS IN ANY EXCLUSION ZONE.
   It shall be unlawful for any property owner to rent or lease real estate to
any designated predatory offender if the property is in a prohibited zone
established under §
133.04. If the property owner discovers or is informed that a tenant is a
designated offender after a rental agreement is signed, the property owner
shall commence eviction proceedings against the designated offender and take
action to ensure that the designated offender is not residing in the exclusion
zone. Property owners in violation of this provision may be punished as set
forth in §
133.07.
(Ord. 294, passed 10-5-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.07 MISDEMEANOR.
   Any person or entity that violates any section of this chapter shall be
punished according to the laws of the state. A violation of this chapter shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Each day that the person maintains a temporary or
permanent residence (or in which the land owner rents or leases to a designated
offender) shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 294, passed 10-5-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
      
152.   SIGNS
      
153.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
154.   SHORELAND PROVISIONS
      
155.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
156.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Uniform System for Address Numbers to Buildings
   
150.01   Purpose
   
150.02   Affixing numbers required
   
150.03   Specifications for posting numbers
   
150.04   City Administrator; implement system; violation
Building Permit Fees
   
150.15   Permit fees
   
150.16   Plan review fees
   
150.17   Fixed fees
   
150.18   Payment of fees
   
150.19   Work commencing before permit issuance
   
150.20   Fee refunds
   
150.21   Re-inspections
   
150.22   Expiration
   
150.23   Expiration of plan review
   
150.24   Review
   
150.25   Violation
Building Code
   
150.40   Adoption by reference
   
150.41   Application, administration and enforcement
   
150.42   Permits and fees
   
150.43   Violations
UNIFORM SYSTEM FOR ADDRESS NUMBERS TO BUILDINGS
§ 150.01 PURPOSE.
   A uniform system of numbering properties and principal buildings is hereby
adopted for use in the city in order to provide for the health, safety and
general welfare of the residents.
(Ord. 264, passed 5-5-2008)
§ 150.02 AFFIXING NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All property owners of parcels containing buildings within the city
limits shall affix the official numbers for each principal building on the
front of the building in a manner as to be visible from the street on which the
property is located. It is preferred that the official number be adjacent to
the front entrance.
   (B)   In case a principal building is occupied by more than one business or
family dwelling unit, each separate front entrance of a building shall bear a
separate number.
   (C)   If a house or principal building is obscured from view of the street
of an address by accessory buildings, trees, shrubbery or other visual
obstruction, or is otherwise not visible from the street, the numbers must be
displayed from a permanent mounting on the property so they are clearly visible
from the street of address.
(Ord. 264, passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03 SPECIFICATIONS FOR POSTING NUMBERS.
   (A)   All property owners shall post the address numbers on the buildings in
accordance with the following requirements.
      (1)   All address numbers shall be a minimum of three and one-half inches
in height. Four inches in height is preferred.
      (2)   All address numbers shall have a maximum height of 12 inches.
      (3)   Address numbers shall be in strong contrast with the background.
      (4)   Address numbers shall be visible from the street.
      (5)   The address numbers shall be made of metal, glass, plastic or other
durable material (preferably reflective).
      (6)   Within 45 days of notification of assigned numbers, owner shall
permanently affix the assigned number on the structure.
   (B)   Following adoption of this subchapter, city staff shall prepare a list
of current properties that do not have building numbers affixed. The owners
shall be notified and be given 90 days to affix building numbers. After this
initial notification and affixing period, division (A)(6) above shall be
followed.
(Ord. 264, passed 5-5-2008)
§ 150.04 CITY ADMINISTRATOR; IMPLEMENT SYSTEM; VIOLATION.
   (A)   The City Administrator is hereby authorized to implement this
subchapter by disseminating information regarding number designations by any
appropriate means.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate this subchapter
by failing to affix proper address numbers or affixing unauthorized numbers. A
violation of this division (B)(1) shall constitute a petty misdemeanor.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate this subchapter by
failing to maintain the required visibility of address numbers. A violation of
this division (B)(2) shall constitute a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 264, passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
BUILDING PERMIT FEES
§ 150.15 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Hereafter, no person shall erect, alter, wreck or move any building or
part thereof without first securing a building permit therefor. No building
permit shall be required for an alteration costing an amount as set by City
Council from time to time if no structural alteration of the building is
involved.
   (B)   The applicant for a building permit shall provide an estimated
construction cost at the time of application, except for fixed fees. Permit
costs shall include total cost of all construction work, including materials
and labor, for which the permit is being issued, such as electrical, gas,
mechanical, plumbing equipment, and permanent systems. The Building Inspector
shall make the final determination of value.
   (C)   Cost is based on the building cost data, dated May of 2008 or the most
current cost provided by the International Code Council via State Building
Codes and Standards Division or contract bid price. The Building Inspector
shall make the final determination.
   (D)   Exceptions: building permit costs for the following structures shall
be based on the costs of on-site work only:
      (1)   Manufactured homes containing a Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
certification label;
      (2)   Prefabricated buildings with a State Building Codes and Standards
Division prefabrication label; and
      (3)   Industrialized/modular buildings with an Industrialized Building
Commission (IBC) label.
   (E)   Building permit costs or fees required in this section do not apply to
those improvements where a set or fixed fee has been set under §
150.17.
   (F)   Building permit fees are calculated at 60% of the 1997 State Building
Code guidelines of construction costs.
(Ord. 269, passed 10-6-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.16 PLAN REVIEW FEES.
   (A)   When submittal documents are required by the Building Inspector, a
plan review fee shall be paid. The plan review fee shall be 65% of the building
permit fee. The plan review fees are separate fees from the permit fees and are
in addition to the permit fees.
   (B)   Plan review fees for similar plans falling under Minn. Rules
1300.0160, subpart 6, shall be 25% of the building permit fee.
(Ord. 269, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 150.17 FIXED FEES.
Air conditioning installations
Demolition
Fireplace (gas or wood)
Gas piping (that’s not part of mechanical  
installation)                                
Mechanical (residential)                     
Plumbing (residential)                       
Re-roofing (residential)                     
Re-siding                                   As set by City Council from time to
Residential fixture/appliance under M.S. § time
326B.136
Window replacement (in existing opening)
Other maintenance or minor projects as
determined by the Building Inspector
All other permit fees based on cost (labor and material) using the fee
schedule.
 
(Ord. 269, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 150.18 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   A building permit shall not be issued until the fees prescribed by the city
have been paid.
(Ord. 269, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 150.19 WORK COMMENCING BEFORE PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Persons beginning and/or completing construction or alteration before
a building permit has been obtained shall be charged twice the actual building
permit fee.
   (B)   A person beginning and/or completing construction or an alteration in
which a building permit is required to have been obtained before the
commencement of that work and the person failed to obtain the building permit
shall be in violation of this subchapter as stated in §
150.24.
(Ord. 269, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 150.20 FEE REFUNDS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector and/or the city may authorize refunding of any
fees paid here under which were erroneously paid or collected.
   (B)   The Building Inspector may authorize refunding of not more than 80% of
the permit fee or plan review fee paid when no work has been done under a
permit issued.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall not authorize refunding of any fee paid
except on written application filed by the original permittee not later than
180 days after the date of fee payment.
(Ord. 269, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 150.21 RE-INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   A re-inspection fee may be assessed for each inspection or re-
inspection when such portion of work for which inspection is called for is not
complete or when corrections called for are not made.
   (B)   To obtain a re-inspection, the permit applicant shall pay the re-
inspection fee as set by the City Council from time to time.
   (C)   In instances where re-inspection fees have been assessed, no
additional inspections of the work will be performed until the required fees
have been paid.
(Ord. 269, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 150.22 EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Every permit issued by the Building Inspector shall expire by
limitation and become null and void if the building or work authorized by the
permit is not commenced within 180 days from the date of the permit, or if the
building or work authorized by the permit is suspended or abandoned at any time
after the work is commenced for a period of 180 days. Before the work can be
recommenced, a new permit shall be first obtained to do so, and the fee
therefore shall be one-half the amount required for a new permit for the work,
excluding plan review fee, provided no changes have been made or will be made
in the original plans and specifications for the work.
   (B)   The Building Inspector may grant, in writing, one or more extensions
of time, for periods not more than 180 days each. The extension shall be
requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated.
(Ord. 269, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 150.23 EXPIRATION OF PLAN REVIEW.
   Applications for which no permit is issued within 180 days following the
date of application shall expire by limitation, and plans and other data
submitted for review may thereafter be returned to the applicant or destroyed
by the Building Inspector. In order to renew action on an application after
expiration, the applicant shall resubmit plans and pay a new plan review fee.
In the event of a hardship and at the discretion of the Building Inspector a
new plan review fee may be waived.
(Ord. 269, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 150.24 REVIEW.
   Any person that feels that they have been aggrieved by a final decision of
the city, as to the application of the Building Code, may within 180 days of
that decision appeal this matter to the Commissioner of Administration pursuant
to M.S. § 326B.139, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 269, passed 10-6-2008)
§ 150.25 VIOLATION.
   A violation of this subchapter shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 269, passed 10-6-2008)
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.40 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The State Building Code, as adopted by the Commissioner of
Administration pursuant to M.S. Chapter 326B.101 to 326B.16, as they may be
amended from time to time, including all of the amendments, rules and
regulations established, adopted and published from time to time by the State
Commissioner of Administration, through the Building Codes and Standards
Division is hereby adopted by reference with the exception of the optional
chapters, unless specifically adopted in this subchapter.
   (B)   The State Building Code is hereby incorporated in this subchapter as
if fully set out herein.
(Ord. 236, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 150.41 APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The application, administration and enforcement of the code shall be
in accordance with State Building Code. The code shall be enforced within the
extraterritorial limits permitted by M.S. § 326B.118, as it may be amended from
time to time, when so established by this subchapter.
   (B)   The code enforcement agency of this municipality is called the “City
of Lake Crystal”.
   (C)   This code shall be enforced by the State Certified Building Inspector
designated by the municipality to administer the code (M.S. § 326B.133, as it
may be amended from time to time).
(Ord. 236, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 150.42 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as
authorized in M.S. § 326B.118, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the municipality in §
30.02. In addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued
for work governed by this code in accordance with M.S. § 326B.148, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 236, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 150.43 VIOLATIONS.
   A violation of the code is a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 236, passed 6-2-2003)
CHAPTER 151: MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Permits
   
151.03   Licenses
   
151.04   Inspection of manufactured home parks
   
151.05   Notices, hearings and orders
   
151.06   Environmental, open space and access requirements
   
151.07   Water supply
   
151.08   Sewage disposal
   
151.09   Service building and other community service facilities
   
151.10   Refuse handling
   
151.11   Insect and rodent control
   
151.12   Fuel supply and storage
   
151.13   Fire protection
   
151.14   Miscellaneous requirements
   
151.15   Conflict
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector or other authorized
representative of the City Council.
   DRIVEWAY. A minor private way used by vehicles and pedestrians on a
manufactured home lot.
   LICENSE. A written license issued annually by the City Council allowing a
person to operate and maintain a manufactured home park under the provisions of
this chapter and regulations issued hereunder.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A manufactured, transportable, single-family dwelling
unit suitable for year-round occupancy and containing adequate water, waste
disposal and electrical equipment. A structure that is transported in one or
more sections which in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width
or 40 body feet or more in length or when erected on site is 320 or more square
feet, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation. MANUFACTURED HOMES are subject
to manufactured home building codes.
   MANUFACTURED HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of a single
manufactured home and the exclusive use of its occupants.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land which has been developed for the
placement of manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOME STAND. The part of an individual lot which has been
reserved for the placement of one manufactured home unit.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use lawfully in existence on the effective date of this
chapter and not conforming to the regulations in which it is situated except
that the use is not nonconforming if it would be authorized under special use
permit.
   PARK MANAGEMENT. The person who owns or has charge, care or control of the
manufactured home park.
   PARK STREET. A private way which affords principal means of access to
individual manufactured home lots, or auxiliary buildings.
   PERMIT. A written permit or certification issued by the Building Inspector
permitting the construction, alteration and extension of a permanent structure
within the manufactured home park under provisions of this chapter and
regulations issued hereunder.
   RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLE. Any folding structure mounted on wheels
designed for travel, recreation and vacation use.
   RECREATIONAL DWELLING VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is portable in structure
built on a chassis or designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel,
recreational and vacation uses. In addition, any structure designed to be
mounted on a truck chassis or used as a temporary dwelling to be used for
travel, recreation and vacation constructed as an integral part of a self-
propelled vehicle.
   SERVICE BUILDING. A structure housing toilet, lavatory and other facilities
as may be required by this chapter.
   SEWER CONNECTION. The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the drain outlet of the manufactured home to the inlet of
the corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sewerage system serving the
manufactured home park.
   SEWER RISER PIPE. The portion of the sewer lateral which extends vertically
to the ground elevation and terminates at each manufactured home lot.
   WATER CONNECTION. The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the
distribution system within the manufactured home.
   WATER RISER PIPE. The portion of the water supply system serving the
manufactured home park which extends vertically to the ground elevation and
terminates at a designated point at each manufactured home lot.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-5-2008; Ord. 280, passed 6-6-2011)
§ 151.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter or extend any
manufactured home park, or structure within the park that are permanent in
nature, within the limits of the city, unless the person holds a valid permit
issued by the Building Inspector in the name of the person for the specific
structures that are not on wheels or mobile.
   (B)   All applications for permits shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant and owner of the tract of land;
      (2)   Location and legal description of the manufactured home park; and
      (3)   Complete engineering plans and specifications of the proposed park
showing, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The area and dimensions of the tract of land; topographical
sketch of the land;
         (b)   The number, location and size of all manufactured home lots;
         (c)   The location and width of roadways and walkways;
         (d)   The location of water and sewer lines and riser pipes;
         (e)   Plans and specifications of the water supply and refuse and
sewage disposal facilities;
         (f)   Plans and specifications of all buildings constructed or to be
constructed within the manufactured home park;
         (g)   The location and details of lighting and electrical system; and
         (h)   The location, size and type of all fire hydrant equipment.
   (C)   All applications for a permit shall be accompanied by a fee as
established by the City Building Code Fee Schedule.
   (D)   The Building Inspector and the Planning Commission shall review all
applications for permits which have been forwarded to them under the provision
of the chapter in accordance with procedures under the city zoning ordinance
(Chapter 156).
(Ord. 265, passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.03 LICENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any manufactured home
park within the limits of the city unless the person(s) holds a valid license
issued by the City Council in the name of the person(s) for the specific
manufactured home park. All applications for licenses shall be made to the City
Council not less than 30 days prior to the effective date of the license. The
City Council shall issue a license upon compliance by the applicant with
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Every person holding a license shall give notice in writing to the
Building Inspector within 72 hours after having sold, transferred, given away
or otherwise disposed of interest in or control of any manufactured home park.
The notice shall be made to the Building Inspector to include the name and
address of the person succeeding the ownership or control of the manufactured
home park. Upon application in writing for transfer of the permit and license,
the permit and license shall be transferred.
   (C)   (1)   Application for original licenses shall be in writing, signed by
the applicant, accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of
application and by deposit of a fee as set by the City Council from time to
time, and shall contain: the applicant’s name, the location and legal
description of the manufactured home park; and a site plan of the manufactured
home park, showing all manufactured home lots, structures, roads, walkways and
other service facilities.
      (2)   Applications for renewals of licenses shall be made in writing not
less than 30 days prior to the effective date by the holders of the licenses,
shall be accompanied by the deposit of a fee as set by the City Council from
time to time, and shall contain any change in the information submitted since
the original license was issued or the latest renewal granted.
   (D)   Whenever, upon inspection of any manufactured home park, the Building
Inspector or authorized representative of the City Council finds that
conditions or practices exist which are in violation of any provision of this
chapter, the Building Inspector shall give notice in writing to the person to
whom the license was issued that conditions or practices shall be corrected
with a 30-day period of time specified in the notice by the Building Inspector.
At the end of the period of time the Building Inspector shall re-inspect the
manufactured home park, and, if such conditions or practices have not been
corrected, the City Council and the City Administrator will give notice in
writing of the suspension to the person to whom the license is issued. Upon
receipt of notice of the suspension, the person shall cease operation of the
manufactured home park.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.04 INSPECTION OF MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to make the
inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with the
chapter.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall have the power to enter at reasonable
times upon any private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and
investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall have the power to inspect the register
containing a record of all residents of the manufactured home park.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the park management to give the Building
Inspector free access to all lots at reasonable times for the purpose of
inspection.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a manufactured home park to
give the owner thereof or his or her agent or employee access to any part of
the manufactured home park at reasonable times for the purpose of making the
repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.05 NOTICES, HEARINGS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this
chapter, the Building Inspector shall give notice of the alleged violation to
the person to whom the license was issued, as hereinafter provided. The notice
shall be in writing; include a statement of the reasons for its issuance; allow
30 days time for the performance of any act it requires; be served upon the
owner or his or her agent as the case may require; provided: that the notice or
order shall be deemed to have been properly served upon the owner or agent when
a copy thereof has been sent by registered mail to his or her address as shown
on the license currently in force, or when he or she has been served with the
notice by any method authorized or required by the laws of this state.
   (B)   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection
with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter, may request and shall be
granted a hearing on the same before the Board of Adjustments and Appeals.
There is hereby created in accordance with M.S. § 462.354, Subd. 2, as it may
be amended from time to time, a Board of Adjustments and Appeals, and the City
Planning Commission is hereby designated and appointed as the Board and it
shall have and exercise all of the powers set forth in M.S. 462.357, Subd. 6
and § 462.359, Subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time, and all other
appeals powers pertaining thereto granted under M.S. § 462, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (C)   Whenever the Building Inspector finds that an emergency exists which
requires immediate action to protect the public health, he or she may without
notice or hearing issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency
and requiring that the action be taken as he or she may deem necessary to meet
the emergency including the suspension of the permit or license.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the order shall be
effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the Building inspector shall
be afforded a hearing as soon as reasonably possible. The provisions shall be
applicable to the hearing and the order issued thereafter.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.06 ENVIRONMENTAL, OPEN SPACE AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements. Condition of soil, ground water level, drainage
and topography shall not create hazards to the property or the health and
safety of the occupants. The site should not be exposed to objectionable smoke,
noise or other adverse influences, and no portion subject to unpredictable and/
or sudden flooding.
   (B)   Soil and ground cover requirements. Exposed ground surfaces in all
parts of every manufactured home park shall be paved, or covered with stone,
screenings or other solid material or protected with a vegetative growth that
is capable of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable dust.
   (C)   Site drainage requirements. The ground surface in all parts of every
manufactured home park shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface water
in a safe, efficient manner.
   (D)   (1)   No part of any park shall be used for nonresidential purposes,
except the uses that are required for the direct servicing of park facilities
and for the management and maintenance of the park.
      (2)   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed as prohibiting
the sale of a manufactured home located on a manufactured home stand and
connected to the pertinent utilities.
      (3)   No such nonconforming use as provided in this section may be
continued for more than five years after the effective date of this chapter.
   (E)   Required separation between manufactured homes.
      (1)   Manufactured homes shall be separated from each other and from
other buildings and structures by at least 15 feet. Manufactured homes placed
end-to-end must have a minimum clearance of ten feet.
      (2)   An accessory structure such as an awning, cabana, storage cabinet,
carport, windbreak and porch which has a floor area exceeding 25 square feet,
and has an opaque top or roof, shall for purposes of all separation
requirements, be considered to be part of the manufactured home.
      (3)   Minimum lot sizes shall not be less than 4,000 square feet with a
maximum lot coverage of 25% or less of the total lot area. Where minimum lot
sizes are 5,000 square feet or more lot coverage may be increased to a maximum
of 30% of the total lot coverage in the manufactured home park.
      (4)   The number of manufactured home lots in the manufactured home park
shall average no greater than seven and one-half lots per acre.
   (F)   Required setbacks, buffer strips and screenings.
      (1)   All manufactured homes shall be located at least 25 feet away from
any property boundary line abutting upon a public street or highway and at
least 15 feet from other property boundary lines of the manufactured home park.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum distance of ten feet between the
manufactured home stand and abutting park street.
      (3)   All manufactured home parks located adjacent to recreational or
commercial land uses shall provide screening such as fences or natural growth
along boundary the property boundary line separating the park and the adjacent
nonresidential uses, and shall be maintained in a neat and orderly fashion.
   (G)   Park street system and car parking.
      (1)   General requirements. All manufactured home parks shall be provided
with safe and convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets or roads
to each manufactured home lot. The access shall be provided by streets,
driveways or other means. Law enforcement officers shall be permitted to use
all park streets at all times.
      (2)   Park entrance. Entrance to manufactured home parks shall be
designed to minimize congestion and hazards and allow free movement of traffic
on adjacent streets. No parking shall be permitted on the park entrance street
for a distance of 100 feet from its point of beginning.
      (3)   Internal streets. Surfaced roadways shall be of adequate width to
accommodate anticipated traffic, and in any case shall meet the following
minimum requirements.
         (a)   All streets except minor streets shall be 20 feet in width.
         (b)   All dead-end streets shall be marked with approved signs at the
entrance to the dead-end street.
         (c)   Minor streets shall be at least 16 feet in width (acceptable
only if less than 500 feet long serving less than 25 manufactured homes or of
any length if the manufactured home lots abut on one side only).
      (4)   Car parking. Off-street parking areas or on-street parking lanes
shall be provided for the use of park occupants and guests. The areas shall:
         (a)   Be furnished at a rate of at least two car spaces for each
manufactured home lot; and
         (b)   Be located within a distance of 200 feet from the manufactured
home to be served, unless other vehicular access is provided. The minimum
street width requirement under division (G)(3) above shall be increased by
eight feet if on-street parking is the only type of car parking provided on any
given street.
   (H)   Walks.
      (1)   General requirements. All parks shall be provided with safe
convenient all season pedestrian access of adequate width for intended use,
durable and convenient to maintain, between individual manufactured homes, the
park streets and all community facilities provided for park residents. Sudden
changes in alignment and gradient shall be avoided.
      (2)   Common walk system. A common walk system shall be provided and
maintained between locations where pedestrian traffic is concentrated. The
common walks shall have a minimum width of three feet.
      (3)   Individual walks. All manufactured homes shall be connected to
common walks, to paved streets, or to paved driveways or parking spaces
connecting to a paved street. The individual walks shall have a minimum width
of two feet.
   (I)   Seasonal recreational dwelling vehicles.
      (1)   Seasonal recreational dwelling vehicles shall be allowed in
manufactured home parks on a limited basis.
      (2)   Seasonal recreational dwelling vehicles shall be allowed in
manufactured home parks on a seasonal full-time basis from April 15 of each
year through September 30 of each year.
      (3)   Seasonal recreational dwelling vehicles shall be allowed in
manufactured home parks in areas designated and approved by the Building
Inspector of the city.
      (4)   Seasonal recreational dwelling vehicles shall abide by the same
regulations as a manufactured home in manufactured home parks.
      (5)   Seasonal recreational dwelling vehicles in a manufactured home park
shall be limited to no more than 20% of its lots.
      (6)   Seasonal recreational dwelling vehicles shall be limited to one
specified area and cannot be throughout the manufactured home park.
   (J)   Recreational camping vehicles. Recreational camping vehicles shall not
be allowed in manufactured home parks.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-5-2008; Ord. 280, passed 6-6-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.07 WATER SUPPLY.
   An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be provided
in each manufactured home park. Where a public supply of water of satisfactory
quantity, quality and pressure is available at the site or at the boundary of
the site, connection shall be made thereto and its supply used exclusively.
When a satisfactory public water supply system is not available, a private
water supply system may be developed and used as approved by the state until a
time as a public supply system becomes available.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.08 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   An adequate and safe sewage system shall be provided in all manufactured
home parks for conveying and disposing of all sewage. The system shall be
designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with state and local laws.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.09 SERVICE BUILDING AND OTHER COMMUNITY SERVICE FACILITIES.
   (A)   General. The requirements of this section shall apply to service
buildings, recreation buildings and other community service faculties such as:
      (1)   Management offices, repair shops and storage areas;
      (2)   Sanitary facilities;
      (3)   Laundry facilities;
      (4)   Indoor recreation areas; and
      (5)   The owners or operator of the manufactured home park is not
restrained from furnishing residents of the park, on loan or lease, equipment
for the maintenance or repair of their individual park facilities.
   (B)   Structural requirements for buildings. All portions of the structure
shall be properly protected from damage by ordinary uses and by decay,
corrosion, termites and other destructive elements. Exterior portions shall be
of such materials and be so constructed and protected as to prevent entrance or
penetration of moisture and weather.
   (C)   Barbeque pits, fireplaces, stoves and incinerators. Cooking shelters,
barbeque pits, fireplaces, wood burning stoves and incinerators shall be so
located, constructed or maintained and used as to minimize fire hazards and
smoke nuisances. No open fire shall be left unattended. No fuel shall be used
and no material burned which emits dense smoke or objectionable odors.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.10 REFUSE HANDLING.
   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the manufactured home park
shall be so conducted as to create no health hazards, rodents harborage, insect
breeding, accident or fire hazards or air or water pollution.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.11 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   (A)   Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insect
and rodent harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and other measures
to control insects and rodents shall conform with requirements of all
applicable health code(s).
   (B)   Parks shall be maintained free of accumulations of debris which may
provide rodent harborage or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes and other
insects.
   (C)   Storage areas shall be so maintained as to prevent rodent harborage;
lumber, pipe and other building material shall be stored at least one foot
above ground.
   (D)   Where the potential for insect and rodent infestation exists, all
exterior openings in or beneath any structure shall be appropriately screened
with a wire mesh or other suitable materials.
   (E)   The growth of brush, weeds and grass shall be controlled to prevent
harborage of ticks, chiggers, and other noxious insects. Parks shall be so
maintained as to prevent the growth of ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak, poison
sumac and other noxious weeds considered detrimental to health. Open areas
shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any description.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.12 FUEL SUPPLY AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Natural gas piping systems shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing the systems.
   (B)   Liquefied petroleum gas systems shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing the systems.
   (C)   All fuel oil supply systems shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing the systems.
   (D)   All outside fuel storage and supply equipment shall be beautified by
adequate screening such as fences or natural growth.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.13 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Manufactured home parks shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and
other flammable material.
   (B)   Portable fire extinguishers rated for Class A, B and C fires shall be
kept visible in service buildings and shall be maintained in good operating
condition. Their capacity shall be not less than two and one-half gallons for
Class A extinguishers and five pounds carbon dioxide or ten pounds dry powder
for Class B and C extinguishers.
   (C)   Fires shall be made only in stoves, incinerators and other equipment
intended for those purposes.
   (D)   Fire hydrants shall be installed if the park water supply system is
capable to serve them in accordance with the following requirements.
      (1)   The water supply system shall permit the operation of a minimum of
two one and one-half inch hose streams.
      (2)   Fire hydrants, if provided, shall be located within 500 feet of any
manufactured home, service building or other structure in the park.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.14 MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   Responsibilities of the park management:
   (A)   The person to whom a license for a manufactured home park is issued
shall operate the park in compliance with this chapter and shall provide
adequate supervision to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in good
repair and in a clean and sanitary condition; and
   (B)   The park management shall notify park occupants of all applicable
provisions of this chapter and inform them of their duties and responsibilities
under this chapter.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.15 CONFLICT.
   In any case where this chapter is found to be in conflict with a provision
of any private or public act or local ordinance or code, the provision which
establishes the higher standard for protection of the health and safety of the
people shall prevail.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-5-2008)
CHAPTER 152: SIGNS
Section
   
152.01   Intent
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Off-premises signs (outdoor advertising)
§ 152.01 INTENT.
   The intent of this section is to provide for necessary visual communications
and to preserve and promote a pleasant physical environment within the city by
regulating the type, number, size, height, lighting, maintenance and erection
of off-premises signs (billboards).
(Ord. 221, passed - -1999)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS SIGN. A sign which advertises the business, commodity, service or
entertainment offered upon the same zoning lot upon which the sign is located.
   ELEVATED HIGHWAY. A state or federal highway which is elevated by the use of
fill or bridging at least five feet above the ground of adjacent properties.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign advertising a business, commodity, service or
entertainment conducted, sold or offered elsewhere other than upon the zoning
lot where the sign is maintained.
(Ord. 221, passed - -1999)
§ 152.03 OFF-PREMISES SIGNS (OUTDOOR ADVERTISING).
   Off-premises signs shall be permitted in B-1 Limited Business Districts, B-
2 Central Business Districts and I Industry Districts; in Limited and General
Business Districts and Industry District, business signs, advertising signs and
name plate signs are permitted subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   Signs as permitted and regulated.
   (B)   Business signs: the total surface area of all business signs on a lot
shall not exceed the sum of two square feet per lineal foot of lot frontages.
No single business sign surface shall exceed 75 square feet in surface.
   (C)   Existing off-premises signs located within the B-1, B-2 and I Zoning
Districts may be moved or reconstructed at pursuant to a conditional use permit
and provided that the new sign would be located along the same right-of-way, is
located within continuous zoning district as the existing sign, and complies
with division (D) below.
   (D)   Off-premises signage shall meet the following standards:
      (1)   Shall be located on a platted lot and considered to be the
principal use of the property;
      (2)   Shall be allowed only in areas adjacent to state and federal
highway;
      (3)   Shall not be allowed within 1,000 feet of the middle of
intersecting rights-of-way of principal arterials and 300 feet from the middle
of other intersecting roadways;
      (4)   Shall not exceed 700 square feet in total area. Maximum allowable
signage will be computed on the basis of one side of any double-faced sign;
      (5)   Shall not exceed 30 feet in height. Sign height shall be measured
from ground grade elevation to the highest point of the sign. Signs abutting an
elevated highway may exceed the maximum height requirement provided that the
top of the sign shall not exceed 15 feet above the grade elevation of the
elevated four-lane highway directly adjacent to the property on which the sign
is positioned;
      (6)   Shall not be within 200 feet of a residential zoning district,
playground, park, school or building used for religious purposes;
      (7)   Signs on the same side of the highway shall have a minimum
separation of 1,500 radial feet. This may be reduced to 1,000 feet if an
existing nonconforming off-premise sign located within the city is removed;
      (8)   Shall be set back from all street right-of-way lines a minimum of
20 feet, except as provided in division (D)(9) below;
      (9)   When a sign is to be located along a designated highway, where the
sign is not adjacent to a front property line, there shall be a minimum setback
of five feet;
      (10)   All ground/pylon support structures shall be monopole design and
shall meet appropriate building codes pertaining to the general provisions of
this section. The exposed upright or superstructure shall be painted a neutral
color; and
      (11)   Off-premises signs located on a roof shall not be permitted.
   (E)   Off-premises signs for neighboring businesses: off-premises ground
signs for businesses that are adjacent to one another may be permissible with
the following conditions.
      (1)   The sign height of a ground sign may be 125% of the maximum sign
height for the zoning district.
      (2)   The sign area for the signs may be the cumulative area of the
allowable signage for all businesses.
(Ord. 221, passed - -1999)
CHAPTER 153: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Statutory authorization
   
153.002   Statement of purpose
   
153.003   Jurisdiction
   
153.004   Official floodplain zoning district map
   
153.005   Compliance
   
153.006   Greater restrictions
   
153.007   Warning of disclaimer of liability
   
153.008   Definitions
   
153.009   Overlay Zoning District
   
153.010   Floodplain evaluation
   
153.011   Floodplain delineation
   
153.012   Travel trailers and travel vehicles
   
153.013   Exemptions
   
153.014   Exempted areas for the placement of travel/recreational vehicles
   
153.015   Removal of exemption
   
153.016   Development
Floodplain Permitted Uses and Standards
   
153.030   Permitted uses in the floodplain
   
153.031   Standards for floodplain permitted uses
Subdivision of Land
   
153.045   Suitability of land
   
153.046   Evaluation of proposed development
   
153.047   Platting requirements
   
153.048   Removal of special flood hazard area designation
Nonconformities
   
153.060   Nonconformity
   
153.061   Continuance of a nonconformity
   
153.062   Market value of alterations
   
153.063   Destruction of a nonconformity
Variances
   
153.075   Variances
   
153.076   Facts and findings required
   
153.077   Vehicular access
   
153.078   Prohibited variances
   
153.079   DNR notification of variance hearing
   
153.080   Appeals
   
153.081   Flood insurance notice and record-keeping
   
153.082   Records and report required
Amendments
   
153.095   DNR approval required
   
153.096   DNR notification
   
153.097   Official zoning map changes
   
153.098   Removal of floodplain designation
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.110   Permit required
   
153.111   State and federal permits
   
153.112   Certification of elevations
   
153.113   Violation a misdemeanor
   
153.114   Violation response
   
153.115   Investigation and notification
   
153.116   Property owner notification
   
153.117   Corrective action
   
153.118   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in M.S. Chapters 103F and Chapter 462, as
they may be amended from time to time, delegated the authority to local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. M.S.
Chapter 103F, as it may be amended from time to time, further stipulates that
communities subject to recurrent flooding must participate and maintain
eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program. Therefore, the City
Council of the city does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.002 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to maintain the community’s eligibility in
the National Flood Insurance Program and to minimize potential losses due to
periodic flooding including loss of life, loss of property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.003 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands designated as floodplain on the
official floodplain zoning district map that are within the jurisdiction of the
city.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.004 OFFICIAL FLOODPLAIN ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   The flood insurance rate map for the city, dated July 3, 1985 is hereby
adopted by reference as the official floodplain zoning district map, and made a
part of this chapter. This map was previously entitled the flood hazard
boundary map, dated July 30, 1976.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.005 COMPLIANCE.
   No new, or existing structure, or land shall hereafter be used, located,
extended, converted or structurally altered without being in full compliance
with this chapter and other applicable regulations which apply to uses within
the jurisdiction of this chapter. Within the Floodplain District, all uses not
listed as permitted uses in §§
153.030 and
153.031 are prohibited.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.006 GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   The requirements of this chapter shall apply in addition to other legally
established regulations. Where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.007 WARNING OF DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not imply that areas outside of the Floodplain District or
land uses permitted within those districts will be free from flooding and flood
damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city, or
any officer or employee thereof, for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decisions lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.008 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Unless
specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall be
interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have in common usage
and so as to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or lowest grade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of the depth
of excavation below ground level.
   FEMA or FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY. The agency responsible
administering the federal flood insurance program and emergency relief
activities.
   FLOOD FRINGE.  The portion of the floodplain, outside of the floodway.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel or beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland,
lake or watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional
flood. FLOODPLAIN areas within the City of Lake Crystal shall encompass all
areas designated as Zone A on the flood insurance rate map.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, dredged spoil, channel modification, culvert, building,
wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, stockpile of sand or gravel or
other material, or matter in, along, across or projecting into any channel,
watercourse, lake bed or regulatory floodplain which may impede, retard or
change the direction of flow, either in itself or by catching or collecting
debris carried by floodwater.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in the state and reasonably characteristics of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term BASE FLOOD used
in the flood insurance rate map.
   RFPE or REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The regulatory flood
protection elevation shall be an elevation no lower than one foot above the
elevation of the regional flood, plus any increases in flood elevation caused
by encroachments on the floodplain that result from designation of a floodway.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, travel
trailers/vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in §
153.013, and other similar items.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator of the City of Lake Crystal is
designated as the Zoning Administrator of this chapter.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.009 OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICT.
   The Floodplain Zoning District shall be considered an overlay zoning
district to all existing land use regulations of the community. The uses
permitted in §§
153.030 and
153.031 shall be permitted only if not prohibited by any established,
underlying zoning district.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.010 FLOODPLAIN EVALUATION.
   Upon receipt of an application for a permit, manufactured home park
development or subdivision approval within the Floodplain District, the city
shall require the applicant to furnish sufficient site development plans.
   (A)   Plan content. The plan shall include a hydrologic/hydraulic analysis
by a qualified engineer or hydrologist specifying the nature of the development
and whether the proposed use is located in the floodway or flood fringe and the
RFPE for the site.
   (B)   Plan consistency. Procedures consistent with Minnesota Rules Parts
6120.5600 (Technical Standards and Requirements For Floodplain Evaluation) and
6120.5700 (Minimum Floodplain Management Standards for Local Ordinances) shall
be followed during the technical evaluation and review of the development
proposal.
   (C)   DNR notification. The city shall submit one copy of all information
required by divisions (A) and (B) above to the respective Department of Natural
Resources Area Hydrologist for review and comment at least 20 days prior to the
granting of a permit or manufactured home park development/subdivision approval
by the community. The city shall notify the respective Department of Natural
Resources Area Hydrologist within ten days after a permit or manufactured home
park development/subdivision approval is granted.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.011 FLOODPLAIN DELINEATION.
   (A)   The boundaries of the Floodplain District shall be determined by
scaling distances on the official floodplain zoning district map.
   (B)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the Floodplain District, the City Council shall:
      (1)   Require a floodplain evaluation consistent with §
153.030 to determine a 100-year flood elevation for the site; or
      (2)   Base its decision on available hydraulic/hydrologic or site
elevation survey data which demonstrates the likelihood the site is within or
outside of the floodplain.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.012 TRAVEL TRAILERS AND TRAVEL VEHICLES.
   Travel trailers and travel vehicles that do not meet the exemption criteria
specified in §
153.013 shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter and as specifically
set forth in §§
153.015 and
153.016.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.013 EXEMPTIONS.
   Travel trailers and travel vehicles are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter if they are placed in any of the areas listed in §
153.014 and further they meet the following criteria:
   (A)   License. Have current licenses required for highway use;
   (B)   Highway ready requirement. Are highway ready meaning on wheels or the
internal jacking system, are attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities commonly used in campgrounds and trailer parks and the travel
trailer/travel vehicle has no attached permanent structural type additions; and
   (C)   Permitted use. The travel trailer or travel vehicle and associated use
must be permitted in any pre-existing, underlying zoning use district.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.014 EXEMPTED AREAS FOR THE PLACEMENT OF TRAVEL/RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   The following areas are exempted from placement requirements for travel
trailers and travel trailers:
   (A)   Lots of record. Individual lots or parcels of record;
   (B)   Parks and campgrounds. Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks
or campgrounds; and
   (C)   Special associations. Existing condominium type associations.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.015 REMOVAL OF EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Generally. Travel trailers and travel vehicles exempted in §
153.013 lose this exemption when development occurs on the parcel exceeding an
amount as set by the City Council from time to time for a structural addition
to the travel trailer/travel vehicle or an accessory structure such as a garage
or storage building.
   (B)   New structure requirements. The travel trailer/travel vehicle and all
additions and accessory structures will then be treated as a new structure and
shall be subject to the elevation requirements and the use of land restrictions
specified in §§
153.030 and
153.031.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.016 DEVELOPMENT.
   New commercial travel trailer or travel vehicle parks or campgrounds and new
residential type subdivisions and condominium associations and the expansion of
any existing similar use exceeding five units or dwelling sites shall be
subject to the following.
   (A)   Travel trailer or travel vehicle replacement. New or replacement
travel trailer or travel vehicle will be allowed in the Floodway or Flood
Fringe Districts as provided below.
      (1)   The trailer or vehicle and its contents are placed on fill above
the RFPE determined in accordance-with the provisions of §
153.031(E).
      (2)   The road access to the site complies with §
153.031(F).
      (3)   Any fill placed in the floodway to meet the requirements of this
section shall not increase flood stages of the 100-year or regional flood.
   (B)   Replacement alternative. All new or replacement travel trailers or
travel vehicles not meeting the criteria of division (A) above may, as an
alternative, be allowed if in accordance with the following provisions.
      (1)   The applicant must submit an emergency plan for the safe evacuation
of all vehicles and people during the 100-year flood.
      (2)   The plan shall be prepared and signed by a registered engineer or
other qualified individual.
      (3)   The plan shall demonstrate that adequate time and personnel exist
to carry out the evacuation.
      (4)   All attendant sewage and water facilities for new or replacement
travel trailers or other recreational vehicles must be protected or constructed
so as to not be impaired or contaminated during times of flooding in accordance
with §
153.031(J).
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
FLOODPLAIN PERMITTED USES AND STANDARDS
§ 153.030 PERMITTED USES IN THE FLOODPLAIN.
   The following uses of land are permitted uses in the Floodplain District:
   (A)   Floodway uses. Any use of land which does not involve a structure, an
addition to the outside dimensions to an existing structure or an obstruction
to flood flows such as fill, excavation or storage of materials or equipment;
and
   (B)   Flood fringe uses. Any use of land involving the construction of new
structures, the placement or replacement of manufactured homes, the addition to
the outside dimensions of an existing structure or obstructions such as fill or
storage of materials or equipment, provided these activities are located in the
flood fringe portion of the floodplain. These uses shall be subject to the
development standards in §
153.031 and the floodplain delineation criteria in §§
153.010 and
153.011.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.031 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN PERMITTED USES.
   Uses, new structures or structural alterations that are permitted in the
Floodplain Zoning District shall comply with the following standards.
   (A)   Placement of fill.
      (1)   Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes shall be properly
protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable method.
      (2)   FEMA’s requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side
slope protection standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments.
      (3)   These standards should be investigated prior to the initiation of
site preparation.
   (B)   Prohibited storage certain materials and equipment. The storage or
processing of materials that are, in time of flooding, flammable, explosive or
potentially injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited.
   (C)   Permitted storage of certain materials and equipment. Storage of other
materials or equipment may be allowed if readily removable from the area within
the time available after a flood warning or if placed on fill to the RFPE.
   (D)   Adverse affects. No use shall be permitted which will adversely affect
the capacity of the channel or floodway of any tributary to the main stream, or
of any drainage ditch, drainage facility or system.
   (E)   RFPE. 
      (1)   All structures, including accessory structures, additions to
existing structures and manufactured homes, shall be constructed on fill so
that the basement floor, or first floor if there is no basement, is at or above
the RFPE.
      (2)   The finished fill elevation must be no lower than one foot below
the RFPE and shall extend at such elevation at least 15 feet beyond the limits
of the structure constructed thereon.
   (F)   Vehicular access to uses. Vehicular access shall not be lower than two
feet below the RFPE for any use located in floodplain unless a variance has
been granted pursuant to §§
153.075 through
153.082.
   (G)   Commercial and manufacturing uses. Accessory land uses, such as yards,
railroad tracks and parking lots may be at elevations lower than the RFPE;
however, a permit for the facilities to be used by the employees or the general
public shall not be granted in the absence of a flood warning system that
provides adequate time for evacuation if the area would be inundated to a depth
greater than two feet or be subject to flood velocities greater than four feet
per second upon occurrence of the regional flood.
   (H)   All manufactured homes. All manufactured homes must be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system that resists flotation,
collapse and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to
be limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces.
   (I)   New manufactured homes. Replacement manufactured homes and certain
travel trailers and travel vehicles are subject to the general provisions of
this chapter and specifically §§
153.009 through
153.016 and §§
153.030 and this section.
   (J)   Travel trailers and travel vehicles. Travel trailers/ travel vehicles
are regulated by §§
153.009 through
153.016.
   (K)   Nonconformities. Modifications, additions, structural alterations or
repair after damage to existing nonconforming structures and nonconforming uses
of structures or land are regulated by the general provisions of this chapter
and specifically §§
153.060 through
153.063.
   (L)   Utilities, railroads, roads and bridges. All utilities and
transportation’ facilities, including railroad tracks, roads and bridges in the
floodplain, shall be constructed in accordance with state floodplain management
standards contained in Minnesota Rules Parts 6120.5000 - 6120.6200.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
SUBDIVISION OF LAND
§ 153.045 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   No land shall be subdivided and no manufactured home park shall be developed
or expanded where the site is determined to be unsuitable by the City Council
for reason of flooding, inadequate drainage or inadequate public utilities. The
City Council shall review the subdivision/development proposal to ensure that
each lot or parcel contains sufficient area outside of the floodway for fill
placement for elevating structures, and related activities.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.046 EVALUATION OF PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
   In the Floodplain District, applicants for subdivision approval or
development of a manufactured home park or manufactured home park expansion
shall provide the information required in §
153.010. The City Council shall evaluate the proposed subdivision or mobile
home park development in accordance with the standards established in §§
153.009 through
153.016.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.047 PLATTING REQUIREMENTS.
   The floodway and flood fringe boundaries, the RFPE and the required
elevation of all access roads for all subdivisions to be located in the
floodplain shall be clearly labelled on all required platting documents.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.048 REMOVAL OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA DESIGNATION.
   (A)   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established
criteria for removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain
structures properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation.
   (B)   FEMA’s requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side
slope protection standards. These standards should be investigated prior to the
initiation of site preparation if a change of special flood hazard area
designation will be requested.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 153.060 NONCONFORMITY.
   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this chapter but which is no longer in conformance
with the provisions of this chapter is a nonconformity.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.061 CONTINUANCE OF A NONCONFORMITY.
   A nonconformity may be continued subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   Expansion of a nonconformity. A nonconformity shall not be expanded,
changed, enlarged or altered in a way which increases its nonconformity; and
   (B)   Alteration of a nonconformity. A nonconformity may be internally
altered provided the alteration will not result in increasing the flood damage
potential of that use or structure.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.062 MARKET VALUE OF ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   The cost of all structural alterations or additions to a nonconformity
over the life of the nonconformity shall not exceed 50% of the current market
value of the structure.
   (B)   When determining the value of the alterations or additions, the
following standards shall be used.
      (1)   Determining value. The cost of all structural alterations and
additions constructed since July 30, 1976, the adoption of the city’s initial
floodplain controls, must be calculated into today’s current cost which will
include all costs such as construction materials and a reasonable cost placed
on all manpower or labor.
      (2)   Cumulative value. If the current cost of all previous and proposed
alterations and additions exceeds 50% of the current market value of the
structure, then the structure must meet the standards of §§
153.030 and
153.031 for new structures.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.063 DESTRUCTION OF A NONCONFORMITY.
   If any nonconforming use of a structure or land or nonconforming structure
is destroyed by any means, including floods, to an extent of 50% or more of its
current market value at the time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed
except in conformance with the provisions of this chapter. The City Council may
issue a permit for reconstruction if the use is located outside the floodway
and, upon reconstruction, is adequately elevated on fill in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
VARIANCES
§ 153.075 VARIANCES.
   A variance is a modification of an official control, including this chapter,
and allows an alternative development standard.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.076 FACTS AND FINDINGS REQUIRED.
   (A)   In the granting of a variance, the Board of Adjustment shall clearly
identify in writing the facts and findings it considered when reaching its
decision.
   (B)   A variance may only be granted if the facts demonstrate that the
following conditions exist:
      (1)   The circumstances are unique to the specific property. A property
owner has demonstrated a hardship or practical difficulty complying with the
official controls that is unique to the specific property; and
      (2)   The variances is in harmony with official controls. That the facts
and findings must demonstrate that the variance will be in harmony with the
official controls and not contrary to the public interest, or intent of this
chapter.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.077 VEHICULAR ACCESS.
   If a variance is granted for any vehicular access that is more than two feet
below the RFPE, the Board shall specify limitations on the period of use or
occupancy of the use and only after determining that adequate flood warning
time and local emergency response and recovery procedures exist.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.078 PROHIBITED VARIANCES.
   A variance may not be granted for any of the circumstances cited below.
   (A)   Use variances. A variance shall not be granted for any use that is not
allowed in the same floodplain or zoning district.
   (B)   Lower degree of flood protection prohibited. A variance may be used to
modify permissible methods of flood protection; however, variances shall not be
granted to permit a lower degree of flood protection than the RFPE.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.079 DNR NOTIFICATION OF VARIANCE HEARING.
   The Board shall submit by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources a
copy of the notice and application for proposed variance at least ten days
prior to the hearing. A copy of all decisions granting a variance shall be
forwarded by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of
that action.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.080 APPEALS.
   Appeals from any decision of the Board of Adjustment may be made, and as
specified in the city zoning ordinance and state statutes.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.081 FLOOD INSURANCE NOTICE AND RECORD-KEEPING.
   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of notifying the applicant
that when a variances is granted, the following circumstances may apply.
   (A)   Higher insurance rates. The issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below the base flood level will result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage.
   (B)   Risk to life and property. The construction below the 100-year or
regional flood level increases risks to life and property.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.082 RECORDS AND REPORT REQUIRED.
   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance, and report those variances issued
in its annual or biennial report submitted to the Administrator of the National
Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
AMENDMENTS
§ 153.095 DNR APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   All amendments to this chapter, including revisions to the official
floodplain zoning district map, shall be approved by the Commissioner of
Natural Resources prior to adoption.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.096 DNR NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   The Commissioner of Natural Resources must be given ten days’ written
notice of all hearings to consider an amendment to this chapter, including
revisions to the official floodplain zoning district map.
   (B)   The notice shall include a draft of the ordinance amendment or
technical study under consideration.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.097 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP CHANGES.
   Changes in the official zoning map affecting property located in the General
Floodplain District must meet the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA)
Technical Conditions and Criteria and must receive prior FEMA approval before
adoption.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.098 REMOVAL OF FLOODPLAIN DESIGNATION.
   The floodplain designation on the official floodplain zoning district map
shall not be removed unless the area is filled to an elevation at or above the
RFPE, is contiguous to lands outside of the floodplain, and FEMA has issued a
letter of map amendment.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.110 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit issued by the city shall be secured prior to the construction,
addition or alteration of any building or structure; prior to the use or change
of use of a building, structure or land; prior to the change or extension of a
nonconforming use; and prior to excavation or the placement of an obstruction
within the floodplain.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.111 STATE AND FEDERAL PERMITS.
   Prior to granting a permit or processing an application for a variance, the
Zoning Administrator shall determine that the applicant has obtained all
necessary state and federal permits.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.112 CERTIFICATION OF ELEVATIONS.
   The applicant shall be required to submit certification by a registered
professional engineer, registered architect or registered land surveyor that
the finished fill and building elevations were accomplished in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter. As-built elevations for elevated structures
must be certified by ground surveys. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a
record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) for all new
structures and alterations or additions to existing structures in the
Floodplain District.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.113 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   A violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any
of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with granting of variances and conditional use
permits) shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.114 VIOLATION RESPONSE.
   In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the Zoning Administrator
may utilize the full array of enforcement actions available to it including,
but not limited to, prosecution and fines, injunctions, after-the-fact permits,
orders for corrective measures or a request to the National Flood Insurance
Program for denial of flood insurance availability to the guilty party. The
community must act in good faith to enforce these official controls and to
correct ordinance violations to the extent possible so as not to jeopardize its
eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.115 INVESTIGATION AND NOTIFICATION.
   When an ordinance violation is either discovered by or brought to the
attention of the Zoning Administrator, the Administrator shall investigate the
situation and document the nature and extent of the violation. As soon as
practicable, this information will be sent to the appropriate Department of
Natural Resources and Federal Emergency Management Agency Regional Office along
with the community’s plan of action to correct the violation to the degree
possible.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.116 PROPERTY OWNER NOTIFICATION.
   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this chapter and all other official controls and the nature and
extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If the structure and/or
use is under construction or development, the Zoning Administrator may order
the construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted by the city.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.117 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   If the construction or development is already completed, then the Zoning
Administrator may take the following action:
   (A)   Order correction. Issue an order identifying the corrective actions
that must be made within a specified time period to bring the use or structure
into compliance with the official controls; or
   (B)   Permit or development approval. Notify the responsible party to apply
for an after-the-fact permit/development approval within a specified period of
time not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
§ 153.118 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violations of conditions or safeguards
established in conjunction with the granting of a conditional use or variance,
shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by law. If
the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the Zoning
Administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day that
lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this chapter and shall be
prosecuted accordingly. The Zoning Administrator shall also, upon the lapse of
the specified response period, notify the landowner to restore the land to the
condition which existed prior to the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 197, passed 10-5-1992)
CHAPTER 154: SHORELAND PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Statutory authorization
   
154.002   Policy
   
154.003   Jurisdiction
   
154.004   Compliance
   
154.005   Enforcement
   
154.006   Interpretation
   
154.007   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.008   Definitions
Administration
   
154.020   Permits required
   
154.021   Certificate of zoning compliance
   
154.022   Variances
   
154.023   Notifications to the Department of Natural Resources
Shoreland Classification System and Land Use Districts
   
154.035   Shoreland classification system
   
154.036   Land use district descriptions
Design Criteria, Shoreland Alterations and Special Provisions
   
154.050   Design criteria
   
154.051   Shoreland alterations
   
154.052   Placement and design of roads, driveways and parking areas
   
154.053   Stormwater management standards
   
154.054   Special provisions
   
154.055   Conditional uses
   
154.056   Public utilities
Nonconformities
   
154.070   General
   
154.071   Construction on nonconforming lots of record
   
154.072   Additions/expansions to nonconforming structures
Subdivision and Platting Provisions
   
154.085   Land suitability
   
154.086   Consistency with other controls
   
154.087   Information requirements
   
154.088   Dedications
   
154.089   Platting
   
154.090   Controlled access or recreational lots
Planned Unit Developments (PUDs)
   
154.105   Types of PUDs permissible
   
154.106   Processing of PUDs
   
154.107   Application for a PUD
   
154.108   Site “suitable area” evaluation
   
154.109   Residential and commercial PUD density evaluation
   
154.110   Maintenance and design criteria
   
154.111   Conversions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization and policies contained
in M.S. Chapter 103G, as it may be amended from time to time, Minn. Rules,
Parts 6120.2500-6120.3900, and the planning and zoning enabling legislation in
M.S. Chapter 462, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.002 POLICY.
   The uncontrolled use of shorelands in the city affects the public health,
safety and general welfare not only by contributing to pollution of public
waters, but also by impairing the local tax base. Therefore, it is in the best
interests of the public health, safety and welfare to provide for the wise
subdivision, use and development of shorelands of public waters. The
legislature of the state has delegated responsibility to local governments of
the state to regulate the subdivisions, use and development of the shorelands
of public waters and thus preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters,
conserve the economic and natural environmental values of shorelands, and
provide for the wise use of waters and related land resources. This
responsibility is hereby recognized by the city.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.003 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the shorelands of the public
water bodies as classified in §§
154.035 and
154.036. Pursuant to Minn. Rules, Parts 6120.2500-6120.3900, no lake, pond or
flowage less than ten acres in size is regulated by these shoreland
regulations. A body of water created by a private user where there was no
previous shoreland may, at the discretion of the governing body, be exempt from
this chapter.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.004 COMPLIANCE.
   The use of any shoreland of public waters; the size and shape of lots; the
use, size, type and location of structures on lots; the installation and
maintenance of water supply and waste treatment systems, the grading and
filling of any shoreland area; the cutting of shoreland vegetation; and the
subdivision of land shall be in full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.005 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Zoning Administrator is responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this chapter. Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or
failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variances or
conditional uses, shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as
defined by law. Violations of this chapter can occur regardless of whether or
not a permit is required for a regulated activity pursuant to §
154.020.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.006 INTERPRETATION
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.007 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions; however, when this chapter
is inconsistent with any other ordinance, the ordinance that imposes greater
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.008 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. For the
purpose of this chapter, the words “must” and “shall” are mandatory and not
permissive. All distances, unless otherwise specified, shall be measured
horizontally.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. Any building or improvement subordinate to
a principal use which, because of the nature of its use, can reasonably be
located at or greater than normal structure setbacks.
   BLUFF. A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff or embankment having the
following characteristics (an area with an average slope of less than 18% over
a distance for 50 feet or more shall not be considered part of the bluff):
      (1)   Part or all of the feature is located in a shoreland area;
      (2)   The slope rises at least 25 feet above the ordinary high water
level of the waterbody;
      (3)   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point 25 feet
or more above the ordinary high water level averages 30% or greater; and
      (4)   The slope must drain toward the waterbody.
   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A bluff and land located within 20 feet from the top of a
bluff.
   BOATHOUSE. A structure designed and used solely for the storage of boats or
boating equipment.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to a lot line or the ordinary high water
level at the required setback beyond which a structure may not extend.
   COMMERCIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS. Typically uses that provide transient,
short-term lodging spaces, rooms or parcels and their operations are
essentially service-oriented. For example, hotel/motel accommodations, resorts,
recreational vehicle and camping parks, and other primarily service-oriented
activities are COMMERCIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   COMMERCIAL USE. The principal use of land or buildings for the sale, lease,
rental or trade of products, goods and services.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A land use or development as defined by ordinance that
would not be appropriate generally but may be allowed with appropriate
restrictions as provided by official controls upon a finding that certain
conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist, the use or development
conforms to the comprehensive land use plan of the community, and the use is
compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   DECK. A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises or other features, attached or functionally related to a
principal use or site and at any point extending more than three feet above
ground.
   DUPLEX, TRIPLEX and QUAD. A dwelling structure on a single lot, having two,
three and four units respectively, being attached by common walls and each unit
equipped with separate sleeping, cooking, eating, living and sanitation
facilities.
   DWELLING SITE. A designated location for residential use by one or more
persons using temporary or movable shelter, including camping and recreational
vehicle sites.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any structure or portion of a structure, or other shelter
designed as short- or long-term living quarters for one or more persons,
including rental or timeshare accommodations such as motel, hotel and resort
rooms and cabins.
   EXTRACTIVE USE. The use of land for surface or subsurface removal of sand,
gravel rock, industrial minerals, other nonmetallic minerals and peat not
regulated under M.S. §§
93.44 to 93.51, as they may be amended from time to time.
   GUEST COTTAGE. A structure used as a dwelling unit that may contain sleeping
spaces and kitchen and bathroom facilities in addition to those provided in the
primary dwelling unit on a lot.
   HARDSHIP.  The same as that term is defined in M.S. Chapter 462, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING.  The vertical distance between the highest adjoining
ground elevation at the building, or ten feet above the lowest ground level,
which ever is lower, and the highest point of a flat roof, or average height of
the highest gable of a pitched or hipped roof.
   INDUSTRIAL USE. The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage or transfer of goods, products, commodities
or other wholesale items.
   INTENSIVE VEGETATIVE CLEARING. The complete removal of trees or shrubs in a
contiguous patch, strip, row or block.
   LOT. A parcel of land designated by plat, metes and bounds, registered land
survey, auditor’s plot or other accepted means and separated from other parcels
or portions by the description for the purpose of sale, lease or separation.
   LOT WIDTH. The shortest distance between lot lines measured at the midpoint
of the building line.
   NONCONFORMITY. Any legal use, structure or parcel of land already in
existence, recorded or authorized before the adoption of official controls or
amendments thereto that would not have been permitted to become established
under the terms of the official controls as now written, if the official
controls had been in effect prior to the date it was established, recorded or
authorized.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL. The boundary of public waters and wetlands, and
shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level which has been
maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominately aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the
ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the elevation of the top bank of the channel. For
reservoirs and flowages, the ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the operating
elevation of the normal summer pool.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A type of development characterized by a unified
site design for a number of dwelling units or dwelling sites on a parcel,
whether for sale, rent or lease, and also usually involving clustering of these
units or sites to provide areas of common open space, density increases, and a
mix of structure types and land uses. These developments may be organized and
operated as condominiums, time-share condominiums, cooperatives, full fee
ownership, commercial enterprises or any combination of these, or cluster
subdivisions of dwelling units, residential condominiums, townhouses, apartment
buildings, campgrounds, recreational vehicle parks, resorts, hotels, motels and
conversions of structures and land uses to these uses.
   PUBLIC WATERS.  Any waters as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A use where the nature of residency is
non-transient and the major or primary focus of the development is not service-
oriented. For example, residential apartments, manufactured home parks, time-
share condominiums, townhouses, cooperatives and full fee ownership residences
would be considered as residential planned unit developments. To qualify as a
RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, a development must contain at least five
dwelling units or sites.
   RIPARIAN. Land contiguous to the bank of a stream, the shore of a lake, or
the edge of a wetland.
   SEMIPUBLIC USE. The use of land by a private, nonprofit organization to
provide a public service that is ordinarily open to some persons outside the
regular constituency of the organization.
   SENSITIVE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT. The preservation and management of areas
unsuitable for development in their natural state due to constraints such as
shallow soils over groundwater or bedrock, highly erosive or expansive soils,
steep slopes, susceptibility to flooding or occurrence of flora or fauna in
need of special protection.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, or other
facility and an ordinary high water level, top of a bluff, road, highway,
property line or other facility.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations and force main, and
all other construction, devices, appliances or appurtenances used for
conducting sewage or industrial waste or other wastes to a point of ultimate
disposal.
   SHORE IMPACT ZONE. Land located between the ordinary high water level of a
public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the structure
setback.
   SHORELAND. Land located within the following distances from public waters:
1,000 feet from the ordinary high water level of a lake, pond or flowage; and
300 feet from a river or stream, or the landward extent of a floodplain
designated by ordinance on a river or stream, whichever is greater. The limits
of SHORELANDS may be reduced whenever the waters involved are bounded by
topographic divides which extend landward from the waters for lesser distances
and when approved by the Commissioner.
   SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITE. 
      (1)   Any archaeological site, standing structure or other property that
meets the criteria for eligibility to the National Register of Historic Places
or is listed in the State Register of Historic Sites, or is determined to be an
unplatted cemetery that falls under the provisions of M.S. § 307.08, as it may
be amended from time to time.
      (2)   A historic site meets these criteria if it is presently listed on
either register or if it is determined to meet the qualifications for listing
after review by the state archaeologist or the Director of the Minnesota
Historical Society.
      (3)   All unplatted cemeteries are SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITES.
   STEEP SLOPE. Land where agricultural activity or development is either not
recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness and the site’s
soil characteristics, as mapped and described in available county soil surveys
or other technical reports, unless appropriate design and construction
techniques and farming practices are used in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. Where specific information is not available, STEEP SLOPES are
lands having average slopes over 12%, as measured over horizontal distances of
50 feet or more, that are not bluffs.
   STRUCTURE. Any building or appurtenance, including decks, except aerial or
underground utility lines, such as sewer, electric, telephone, gas lines,
towers, poles and other supporting facilities.
   SUBDIVISION. Land that is divided for the purpose of sale, rent or lease,
including planned unit developments.
   SURFACE WATER-ORIENTED COMMERCIAL USE. The use of land for commercial
purposes, where access to and use of a surface water feature is an integral
part of the normal conductance of business. Marinas, resorts and restaurants
with transient docking facilities are examples of the use.
   TOE OF THE BLUFF.  The point on a bluff where there is, as visually
observed, a clearly identifiable break in the slope, from a gentler to a
steeper slope above. If no break in the slope is apparent, the TOE OF THE BLUFF
shall be determined to be the lower end of a 50-foot segment, measured on the
ground, with an average slope exceeding 18%.
   TOP OF THE BLUFF. The point on a bluff where there is, as visually observed,
a clearly identifiable break in the slope, from a steeper to a gentler slope
above. If no break in the slope is apparent, the TOP OF THE BLUFF shall be
determined to be the upper end of a 50-foot segment, measured on the ground,
with an average slope exceeding 18%.
   VARIANCE. The same as that term is defined or described in M.S. Chapter 462,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. 
      (1)   A small, above ground building or other improvement, except
stairways, fences, docks and retaining walls, which, because of the
relationship of its use to a surface water feature, reasonably needs to be
located closer to public waters than the normal structure setback.
      (2)   Examples of these structures and facilities include boathouses,
gazebos, screen houses, fish houses, pump houses and detached decks.
   WETLAND. A surface water feature classified as a wetland in the United
States Fish and Wildlife the latest edition of Classification of Wetlands and
Deepwater Habitats of the United States published by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.020 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit is required for the construction of buildings or building
additions (and including such related activities as construction of decks and
signs), and those grading and filling activities not exempted by §
154.051.
   (B)   Application for a permit shall be made to the Zoning Administrator on
the forms provided. The application shall include the necessary information so
that the Zoning Administrator can determine the site’s suitability for the
intended use.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.021 CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a certificate of zoning
compliance for each activity requiring a permit as specified in §
154.020.
   (B)   This certificate will specify that the use of land conforms to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Any use, arrangement or construction at variance with that authorized
by permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and shall be punishable
as provided in §
154.005.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.022 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances may only be granted in accordance with M.S. Chapter 462, as
it may be amended from time to time. A variance may not circumvent the general
purposes and intent of this chapter. No variance may be granted that would
allow any use that is prohibited in the zoning district in which the subject
property is located. Conditions may be required to ensure compliance and to
protect adjacent properties and the public interest. In considering a variance
request, the Board of Adjustment must also consider whether the property owner
has reasonable use of the land without the variance, whether the property is
used seasonally or year-round, whether the variance is being requested solely
on the basis of economic considerations, and the characteristics of development
on adjacent properties.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide requests for variances
in accordance with the rules that it has adopted for the conduct of business.
When a variance is approved after the Department of Natural Resources has
formally recommended denial in the hearing record, the notification of the
approved variance required in §
154.023(A) shall also include the Board of Adjustment’s summary of the public
record/testimony and the findings of facts and conclusions which supported the
issuance of the variance.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.023 NOTIFICATIONS TO THE DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES.
   (A)   Copies of all notices of any public hearings to consider variances,
amendments or conditional uses under local shoreland management controls must
be sent to the Commissioner or the Commissioner’s designated representative and
postmarked at least ten days before the hearings. Notices of hearings to
consider proposed subdivisions/plats must include copies of the subdivision/
plat.
   (B)   A copy of approved amendments and subdivision plats, and final
decisions granting variances or conditional uses under local shoreland
management controls must be sent to the Commissioner or the Commissioner’s
designated representative and postmarked within ten days of final action.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
SHORELAND CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM AND LAND USE DISTRICTS
§ 154.035 SHORELAND CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The public waters of the city have been classified below consistent with the
criteria found in Minn. Rules, Part 6120.3300, and the protected waters
inventory map for the county.
   (A)   The shoreland area for the waterbody listed in division (B) below
shall be defined in §
154.008, and as shown on the official zoning map.
   (B)   Protected waters:
 
General Development Lakes PWI No.
Crystal                   7-98
Lily                      7-101
 
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.036 LAND USE DISTRICT DESCRIPTIONS.
   (A)   Criteria for designation. The land use districts in division (B)
below, and the delineation of a land use district’s boundaries on the official
zoning map, must be consistent with the goals, policies and objectives of the
comprehensive land use plan and the following criteria, considerations and
objectives.
      (1)   General criteria and considerations for all land uses.
         (a)   Preservation of natural areas;
         (b)   Present ownership and development of shoreland areas;
         (c)   Shoreland soil types and their engineering capabilities;
         (d)   Topographic characteristics;
         (e)   Vegetative cover;
         (f)   In-water physical characteristics, values and constraints;
         (g)   Recreational use of the surface water;
         (h)   Road and service center accessibility;
         (i)   Socioeconomic development needs and plans as they involve water
and related land resources;
         (j)   The land requirements of industry which, by its nature, requires
location in shoreland areas; and
         (k)   The necessity to preserve and restore certain areas having
significant historical or ecological value.
      (2)   Factors and criteria for planned unit developments.
         (a)   Existing recreational uses of the surface waters and likely
increases in uses associated with planned unit developments;
         (b)   Physical and aesthetic impacts of increased density;
         (c)   Current development in the area;
         (d)   Amounts and types of ownership of undeveloped lands; and
         (e)   Suitability of lands for the planned unit development approach.
   (B)   Land use district descriptions. The land use districts provided below,
and the allowable land uses therein for general development lakes shall be
properly delineated on the official zoning map for shorelands of this
community; these land use districts are in conformance with the criteria
specified in Minnesota Rules, Part 6120.3200, Subp. 3; Crystal and Lily,
General Development Lakes:
      (1)   Residential District. The permitted and conditional uses listed
below for are substantially in conformance with the permitted and conditional
use of the Residential District of the city zoning ordinance.
         (a)   Permitted uses. One-family dwelling.
         (b)   Conditional uses.
            1.   Public, semipublic uses; and
            2.   Parks and historic sites.
      (2)   General Use/High Density Residential District. The permitted and
conditional uses listed below for are substantially in conformance with the
permitted and conditional use of the business and industrial districts of the
city zoning ordinance.
         (a)   Permitted uses.
            1.   Commercial uses, including duplex, triplex and quad dwellings;
and
            2.   Public, semipublic uses.
         (b)   Conditional uses.
            1.   Parks and historic sites uses;
            2.   Industrial uses; and
            3.   Commercial and residential planned unit developments.
      (3)   Lot area and width standards.
         (a)   Residential subdivisions with dwelling unit densities exceeding
those in division (B)(3)(b) below can only be allowed if designed and approved
as residential planned unit developments under §§
154.105 through
154.111. Only land above the ordinary high water level of public waters can be
used to meet lot area standards. Lot width standards must be met at both the
ordinary high water level and at the building line.
         (b)   The lot area (in square feet) and lot width standards (in feet)
for single, duplex, triplex and quad residential lots created after the date of
enactment of this chapter for sewered general development lake lots are as
follows.
 
        Riparian Lots Nonriparian Lots
        Area   Width  Area   Width
Single  15,000 75     10,000 75
Duplex  26,000 135    17,500 135
Triplex 38,000 195    25,000 190
Quad    49,000 255    32,500 245
 
      (4)   Placement of structures on lots.
         (a)   When more than one setback applies to a site, structures must be
located to meet all setbacks. Where structures exist on the adjoining lots on
both sides of a proposed building site, structure setbacks may be altered
without a variance to conform to the adjoining setbacks from the ordinary high
water level, provided the proposed building site is not located in a shore
impact zone or in a bluff impact zone.
         (b)   Sewered structures on general development lakes must setback 50
feet from the ordinary high water level. One water-oriented accessory structure
designed in accordance with §
154.050(C) may be set back a minimum distance of ten feet from the ordinary
high water level.
         (c)   Additional structure setbacks:
 
Setback From                                                    Distance
Right-of-way line of a federal, state or county highway         50 feet
Right-of-way line of town road, public street or other roads or 20 feet
streets not classified
Top of bluff                                                    30 feet
Unplatted cemetery                                              50 feet
 
         (d)   Bluff impact zones: structures and accessory facilities, except
stairways and landings, must not be placed within bluff impact zones.
         (e)   Uses without water-oriented needs: uses without water-oriented
needs must be located on lots or parcels without public waters frontage, or, if
located on lots or parcels with public waters frontage, must either be set back
double the normal ordinary high water level setback, or be substantially
screened from view from the water by vegetation or topography, assuming summer,
leaf-on conditions.
   (C)   Use and upgrading of inconsistent land use districts.
      (1)   The land use districts adopted in Chapter 156, as they apply to
shoreland areas, and their delineated boundaries on the official zoning map,
are substantially consistent with the land use district designation criteria
specified in this section; however, where inconsistent land use district
designations exist, they may continue until revisions are proposed to change
either the land use district designation within an existing land use district
boundary shown on the official zoning map or to modify the boundary of an
existing land use district shown on the official zoning map.
      (2)   When a revision is proposed to an inconsistent land use district
provision, the following additional criteria and procedures shall apply: when a
revision to a land use district designation on a lake is considered, the land
use district boundaries and use provisions therein for all the shoreland areas
within the jurisdiction of this chapter on the lake must be revised to make
them substantially compatible with the framework in divisions (A) and (B)
above.
      (3)   When an interpretation question arises about whether a specific
land use fits within a given “use”category, the interpretation shall be made by
the Board of Adjustment. When a question arises as to whether a land use
district’s boundaries are properly delineated on the official zoning map, this
decision shall be made by the City Council.
      (4)   When a revision is proposed to an inconsistent land use district
provision by an individual party or landowner, this individual party or
landowner will only be responsible to provide the supporting and/or
substantiating information for the specific parcel in question. The City
Council will direct the Zoning Administrator to provide additional information
for this waterbody as is necessary to satisfy divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)
above.
      (5)   The city must make a detailed finding of fact and conclusion when
taking final action that the revision, and the upgrading of any inconsistent
land use district designations on the waterbody, are consistent with the
enumerated criteria and use provisions of §
154.036.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
DESIGN CRITERIA, SHORELAND ALTERATIONS AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.050 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   Guest cottages. One guest cottage may be allowed as a conditional use
on lots meeting or exceeding the duplex lot area and width dimensions presented
in §
154.036(B), provided the following standards are met.
      (1)   For lots exceeding the minimum lot dimensions of duplex lots, the
guest cottage must be located within the smallest duplex-sized lot that could
be created including the principal dwelling unit.
      (2)   A guest cottage must not cover more than 700 square feet of land
surface and must not exceed 15 feet in height.
      (3)   A guest cottage must be located or designed to reduce its
visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation,
topography, increased setbacks or color, assuming summer leaf-on conditions.
   (B)   Controlled access lots. Lots intended as controlled accesses to public
waters or as recreation areas for use by owners of nonriparian lots within
subdivisions are permissible and must meet or exceed the following standards.
      (1)   They must meet the width and size requirements for residential lots
and be suitable for the intended uses of controlled access lots.
      (2)   If docking, mooring or over-water storage of more than six
watercraft is to be allowed at a controlled access lot, then the width of the
lot (keeping the same lot depth) must be increased by 25% of the requirements
for riparian residential lots for each watercraft beyond six, because both Lily
and Crystal Lakes have a lake size to shore length ratio of less than 100 acres
to a mile.
      (3)   They must be jointly owned by all purchasers of lots in the
subdivision or by all purchases of non-riparian lots in the subdivision who are
provided riparian access rights on the access lot.
      (4)   Covenants or other equally effective legal instruments must be
developed that specify which lot owners have authority to use the access lot
and what activities are allowed. The activities may include watercraft
launching, loading, storage, beaching, mooring or docking. They must also
include other outdoor recreational activities that do not significantly
conflict with general public use of the public water or the enjoyment of normal
property rights by adjacent property owners. Examples of the non-significant
conflict activities include swimming, sunbathing or picnicking. The covenants
must limit the total number of vehicles allowed to be parked and the total
number of watercraft allowed to be continuously moored, docked or stored over
water, and must require centralization of all common facilities and activities
in the most suitable locations On the lot to minimize topographic and
vegetation alterations. They must also require all parking areas, storage
buildings and other facilities to be screened by vegetation or topography as
much as practical from view from the public water, assuming summer, leaf-on
conditions.
   (C)   Design criteria for structures.
      (1)   High water elevations. Structures must be placed in accordance with
any floodplain regulations applicable to the site. Where these controls do not
exist, the elevation to which the lowest floor, including basement, is placed
or flood-proofed must be determined as follows:
         (a)   The lowest floor must be at a level at least three feet above
the highest known water level, or three feet above the ordinary high water
level, whichever is higher.
         (b)   Water-oriented accessory structures may have the lowest floor
placed lower than the elevation determined in this item if the structure is
constructed of flood-resistant materials to the elevation, electrical and
mechanical equipment is placed above the elevation and, if long duration
flooding is anticipated, the structure is built to withstand ice action and
wind-driven waves and debris.
      (2)   Water-oriented accessory structures. Each lot may have one water-
oriented accessory structure not meeting the normal structure setback in §
154.036(A) if this water-oriented accessory structure complies with the
following provisions.
         (a)   The structure or facility must not exceed ten feet in height,
exclusive of safety rails, and cannot occupy an area greater than 250 square
feet. Detached decks must not exceed eight feet above grade at any point.
         (b)   The setback of the structure or facility from the ordinary high
water level must be at least ten feet.
         (c)   The structure or facility must be treated to reduce visibility
as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation, topography,
increased setbacks or color, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
         (d)   The roof may be used as a deck with safety rails, but must not
be enclosed or used as a storage area.
         (e)   The structure or facility must not be designed or used for human
habitation and must not contain water supply or sewage facilities.
         (f)   As an alternative, water-oriented accessory structures used
solely for watercraft storage, and including storage of related boating and
water-oriented sporting equipment, may occupy an area up to 400 square feet
provided the maximum width of the structure is 20 feet as measured parallel to
the configuration of the shoreline.
      (3)   Stairways, lifts and landings. Stairways and lifts are the
preferred alternative to major topographic alterations for achieving access up
and on bluffs and steep slopes to shore areas. Stairways and lifts must meet
the following design requirements.
         (a)   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties, public
open-space recreational properties, and planned unit developments.
         (b)   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not
exceed 32 square feet in area. Landings larger than 32 square feet may be used
for commercial properties, public open-space recreational properties, and
planned unit developments.
         (c)   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts or
landings.
         (d)   Stairways, lifts and landings may be either constructed above
the ground on posts or pilings, or placed into the ground, provided they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion.
         (e)   Stairways, lifts and landings must be located in the most
visually inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the
public water assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical.
         (f)   Facilities such as ramps, lifts or mobility paths for physically
handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore areas,
provided that the dimensional and performance standards of divisions (C)(3)(a)
through (C)(3)(e) above are complied with in addition to the requirements of
Minn. Rules, Chapter 1340.
      (4)   Significant historic sites. No structure may be placed on a
significant historic site in a manner that affects the values of the site
unless adequate information about the site has been removed and documented in a
public repository.
      (5)   Steep slopes. The Zoning Administrator must evaluate possible soil
erosion impacts and development visibility from public waters before issuing a
permit for construction of roads, driveways, structures or other improvements
on steep slopes. When determined necessary, conditions must be attached to
issued permits to prevent erosion and to preserve existing vegetation screening
of structures, vehicles and other facilities as viewed from the surface of
public waters, assuming summer, leaf-on vegetation.
   (D)   Height of structures. All structures in shoreland residential
districts, except churches and nonresidential agricultural structures, must not
exceed 25 feet in height.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.051 SHORELAND ALTERATIONS.
   Alterations of vegetation and topography will be regulated to prevent
erosion into public waters, fix nutrients, preserve shoreland aesthetics,
preserve historic values, prevent bank slumping and protect fish and wildlife
habitat.
   (A)   Vegetative alterations.
      (1)   A vegetative alteration permit is required for the construction of
structures, and the construction of roads or parking areas regulated by §
154.052.
      (2)   Removal or alteration of vegetation, except for agricultural uses
as regulated in §
154.054(B) is allowed subject to the following standards.
         (a)   Intensive vegetation clearing within the shore and bluff impact
zones and on steep slopes is not allowed.
         (b)   In shore and bluff impact zones and on steep slopes, limited
clearing of trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning and trimming of trees is
allowed to provide a view to the water from the principal dwelling site and to
accommodate the placement of stairways and landings, picnic areas, access
paths, livestock watering areas, beach and watercraft access areas, and
permitted water-oriented accessory structures or facilities, provided that:
            1.   The screening of structures, vehicles or other facilities as
viewed from the water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, is not
substantially reduced; and
            2.   The above provisions are not applicable to the removal of
trees, limbs or branches that are dead, diseased or pose safety hazards.
   (B)   Topographic alterations/grading and filling.
      (1)   Grading and filling and excavations necessary for the construction
of structures and driveways under validly issued construction permits for these
facilities do not require the issuance of a separate grading and filling
permit; however, the grading and filling standards in this section must be
incorporated into the issuance of permits for construction of structures and
driveways.
      (2)   Public roads and parking areas are regulated by §
154.052.
      (3)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above, a grading and
filling permit will be required for:
         (a)   The movement of more than ten cubic yards of material on steep
slopes or within shore or bluff impact zones; and
         (b)   The movement of more than 50 cubic yards of material outside of
steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones.
      (4)   The following considerations and conditions must be adhered to
during the issuance of construction permits, grading and filling permits,
conditional use permits, variances and subdivision approvals:
         (a)   Grading or filling in any Type 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 wetland
must be evaluated to determine how extensively the proposed activity would
affect the following functional qualities of the wetland; this evaluation must
also include a determination of whether the wetland alteration being proposed
requires permits, reviews or approvals by other local, state or federal
agencies such as a watershed district, the State Department of Natural
Resources or the United States Army Corps of Engineers; the applicant will be
so advised:
            1.   Sediment and pollutant trapping and retention;
            2.   Storage of surface runoff to prevent or reduce flood damage;
            3.   Fish and wildlife habitat;
            4.   Recreational use;
            5.   Shoreline or bank stabilization; and
            6.   Noteworthiness, including special qualities such as historic
significance, critical habitat for endangered plants and animals, or others.
         (b)   Alterations must be designed and conducted to ensure only the
smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for the shortest time possible.
         (c)   Mulches or similar materials must be used, where necessary, for
temporary bare soil coverage, and a permanent vegetation cover must be
established as soon as possible.
         (d)   Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediments before
they reach any surface water feature must be used.
         (e)   Altered areas must be stabilized to acceptable erosion control
standards consistent with the field office technical guides of the local soil
and water conservation districts and the National Resources Conservation
Service.
         (f)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in a manner that
creates an unstable slope.
         (g)   Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep slopes must
be reviewed by qualified professionals for continued slope stability and must
not create finished slopes of 30% or greater.
         (h)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in bluff impact
zones.
         (i)   Any alterations below the ordinary high water level of public
waters must be authorized by the Commissioner under M.S. § 103G.245, as it may
be amended from time to time.
         (j)   Alterations of topography must only be allowed if they are
accessory to permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely affect adjacent
or nearby properties.
         (k)   Placement of natural rock riprap, including associated grading
of the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is permitted if the
finished slope does not exceed three feet horizontal to one foot vertical, the
landward extent of the riprap is within ten feet of the ordinary high water
level, and the height of the riprap above the ordinary high water level does
not exceed three feet.
      (5)   Connection to public waters. Excavations where the intended purpose
is connection to a public water, such as boat slips, canals, lagoons and
harbors, must be controlled by local shoreland controls. Permission for
excavations may be given only after the Commissioner has approved the proposed
connection to public waters.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.052 PLACEMENT AND DESIGN OF ROADS, DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Screening and erosion control. Public and private roads and parking
areas must be designed to take advantage of natural vegetation and topography
to achieve maximum screening from view from public waters. Documentation must
be provided by a qualified individual that all roads and parking areas are
designed and constructed to minimize and control erosion to public waters
consistent with the field office technical guides of the local soil and water
conservation district, or other applicable technical materials.
   (B)   Roads, driveways and parking areas setbacks. Roads, driveways and
parking areas must meet structure setbacks and must not be placed within bluff
and shore impact zones, when other reasonable and feasible placement
alternatives exist.
   (C)   Placement of accesses in shore impact zone. Public and private
watercraft access ramps, approach roads and access-related parking areas may be
placed within shore impact zones provided the vegetation screening and erosion
control conditions of this section are met. For private facilities, the grading
and filling provisions of §
154.051(B) must be met.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.053 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   When possible, existing natural drainageways, wetlands and
vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter and retain
stormwater runoff before discharge to public waters.
      (2)   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that will
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion potential,
and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be stabilized and
protected as soon as possible and facilities or methods used to retain sediment
on the site.
      (3)   When development density, topographic features and soil and
vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle stormwater runoff
using natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed facilities
such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes, waterways and
ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs using surface drainage,
vegetation and infiltration rather than buried pipes and human-made materials
and facilities.
   (B)   Specific standards.
      (1)   Impervious surface coverage of lots must not exceed 25% of the lot
area.
      (2)   When constructed facilities are used for stormwater management,
documentation must be provided by a qualified individual that they are designed
and installed consistent with the field office technical guide of the local
soil and water conservation districts.
      (3)   New constructed stormwater outfalls to public waters must provide
for filtering or settling of suspended solids and skimming of surface debris
before discharge.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.054 SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Standards for commercial, public and semipublic uses.
      (1)   Surface water-oriented commercial uses and industrial, public or
semipublic uses with similar needs to have access to and use of public waters
may be located on parcels or lots with frontage on public waters.
      (2)   Those uses with water-oriented needs must meet the following
standards.
         (a)   In addition to meeting impervious coverage limits, setbacks and
other zoning standards in this chapter, the uses must be designed to
incorporate topographic and vegetative screening of parking areas and
structures.
         (b)   Uses that require short-term watercraft mooring for patrons must
centralize these facilities and design them to avoid obstructions or navigation
and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the need.
         (c)   Sign permits are required for all signs. Uses that depend on
patrons arriving by watercraft may use signs and lighting to convey needed
information to the public, subject to the following general standards.
            1.   No advertising signs or supporting facilities for signs may be
placed in or upon public waters. Signs conveying information or safety messages
may be placed in or on public waters by a public authority or under a permit
issued by the County Sheriff.
            2.   Signs may be placed, when necessary, within the shore impact
zone if they are designed and sized to be the minimum necessary to convey
needed information. They must only convey the location and name of the
establishment and the general types of goods or services available. The signs
must not contain other detailed information such as product brands and prices,
must not be located higher than ten feet above the ground, and must not exceed
32 square feet in size. If illuminated by artificial lights, the lights must be
shielded or directed to prevent illumination out across public waters.
            3.   Other outside lighting may be located within the shore impact
zone or over public waters if it is used primarily to illuminate potential
safety hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to prevent direct
illumination out across public waters. This does not preclude use of
navigational lights.
   (B)   Agriculture use standards.
      (1)   General cultivation farming, grazing, nurseries, horticulture,
truck farming, sod farming and wild crop harvesting are permitted uses if steep
slopes and shore and bluff impact zones are maintained in permanent vegetation
or operated under an approved conservation plan (Resource Management Systems)
consistent with the field office technical guides of the local soil and water
conservation districts or the National Resources Conservation Service, as
provided by a qualified individual or agency. The shore impact zone for parcels
with permitted agricultural land uses is equal to a line parallel to and 50
feet from the ordinary high water level.
      (2)   Animal feedlots are prohibited within the corporate limits of the
city.
   (C)   Extractive use standards.
      (1)   Site development and restoration plan. An extractive use site
development and restoration plan must be developed, approved and followed over
the course of operation of the site. The plan must address dust, noise,
possible pollutant discharges, hours and duration of operation, and anticipated
vegetation and topographic alterations. It must also identify actions to be
taken during operation to mitigate adverse environmental impacts, particularly
erosion, and must clearly explain how the site will be rehabilitated after
extractive activities end.
      (2)   Setbacks for processing machinery. Processing machinery must be
located consistent with setback standards for structures from ordinary high
water levels of public waters and from bluffs.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.055 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Conditional uses allowable within shoreland areas shall be subject to the
review and approval procedures, and criteria and conditions for review of
conditional uses established community-wide; the following additional
evaluation criteria and conditions apply within shoreland areas.
   (A)   Evaluation criteria. A thorough evaluation of the waterbody and the
topographic, vegetation and soils conditions on the site must be made to
ensure:
      (1)   The prevention of soil erosion or other possible pollution of
public waters, both during and after construction;
      (2)   The visibility of structures and other facilities as viewed from
public waters is limited;
      (3)   That adequate public utilities are available at the site; and
      (4)   The types, uses and numbers of watercraft that the project will
generate are compatible in relation to the suitability of public waters to
safely accommodate these watercraft.
   (B)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits.
      (1)   The City Council, upon consideration of the criteria listed above
and the purposes of this chapter, shall attach such conditions to the issuance
of the conditional use permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of
this chapter.
      (2)   These conditions may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Increased setbacks from the ordinary high water level;
         (b)   Limitations on the natural vegetation to be removed or the
requirement that additional vegetation be planted; and
         (c)   Special provisions for the location, design and use of
structures, watercraft launching and docking areas, and vehicle parking areas.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.056 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   Standards:
   (A)   Any public or private supply of water for domestic purposes must meet
or exceed standards for water quality of the State Department of Health and the
State Pollution Control Agency; and
   (B)   Any premises used for human occupancy must be provided with municipal
sewer and water.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 154.070 GENERAL.
   All legally established nonconformities as of the date of this chapter may
continue, but they will be managed according to applicable state statutes and
other regulations of this community pertaining to alterations and additions,
repair after damage, discontinuance of use and intensification of use, except
that the following standards will also apply in shoreland areas.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.071 CONSTRUCTION ON NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   Lots of record in the office of the County Recorder on the date of
enactment of local shoreland controls that do not meet the requirements of §
154.036 may be allowed as building sites without variances from lot size
requirements provided the use is permitted in the zoning district, the lot has
been in separate ownership from abutting lands at all times since it became
substandard, and was created compliant with official controls in effect at the
time.
   (B)   A variance from setback requirements must be obtained before a use, or
land development permit is issued for a lot. In evaluating the variance, the
Board of Adjustment shall consider public utilities capabilities or constraints
of the lot and shall deny the variance if adequate facilities cannot be
provided.
   (C)   If, in a group of two or more contiguous lots under the same
ownership, any individual lot does not meet the requirements of §
154.036, the lot must not be considered as a separate parcel of land for the
purposes of sale or development. The lot must be combined with the one or more
contiguous lots so they equal one or more parcels of land, each meeting the
requirements of §
154.036 as much as possible.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.072 ADDITIONS/EXPANSIONS TO NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All additions or expansions to the outside dimensions of an existing
nonconforming structure must meet the setback, height and other requirements of
§§
154.035 and
154.036, and §§
154.050 through
154.056. Any deviation from these requirements must be authorized by a variance
pursuant to §
154.022.
   (B)   Deck additions may be allowed without a variance to structure not
meeting the required setback from the ordinary high water level if all of the
following criteria and standards are met.
      (1)   The structure existed on the date the structure setbacks were
established.
      (2)   A thorough evaluation of the property and structure reveals no
reasonable location for a deck meeting or exceeding the existing ordinary high
water level setback.
      (3)   The deck encroachment toward the ordinary high water level does not
exceed 15% of the existing setback of the structure from the ordinary high
water level or does not encroach closer than 30 feet, whichever is more
restrictive.
      (4)   The deck is constructed primarily of wood, and is not roofed or
screened.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
SUBDIVISION AND PLATTING PROVISIONS
§ 154.085 LAND SUITABILITY.
   Each lot created through subdivision, including planned unit developments
authorized under §§
154.105 through
154.111, must be suitable in its natural state for the proposed use with
minimal alteration. Suitability analysis by the local unit of government shall
consider susceptibility to flooding, existence of wetlands, soil and rock
formations with severe limitations for development, severe erosion potential,
steep topography, inadequate public utilities capabilities, near-shore aquatic
conditions unsuitable for water-based recreation, important fish and wildlife
habitat, presence of significant historic sites, or any other feature of the
natural land likely to be harmful to the health, safety or welfare of future
residents of the proposed subdivision,
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.086 CONSISTENCY WITH OTHER CONTROLS.
   Subdivisions must conform to all official controls of city. A subdivision
will not be approved where a later variance from one or more standards in
official controls would be needed to use the lots for their intended purpose.
In areas not served by publicly owned sewer and water systems, a subdivision
will not be approved. Each lot shall meet the minimum lot size and dimensional
requirements of §
154.036.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.087 INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Sufficient information must be submitted by the applicant for the
community to make a determination of land suitability.
   (B)   The information shall include at least the following:
      (1)   Topographic contours at two-foot intervals or less from United
States Geological Survey maps or more accurate sources, showing limiting site
characteristics;
      (2)   The surface water features required in M.S. § 505.021, as it may be
amended from time to time, to be shown on plats, obtained from United States
Geological Survey quadrangle topographic maps or more accurate sources;
      (3)   Information regarding adequacy of public utilities; extent of
anticipated vegetation and topographic alterations; near-shore aquatic
conditions, including depths, types of bottom sediments and aquatic vegetation;
and proposed methods for controlling stormwater runoff and erosion, both during
and after construction activities;
      (4)   Location of 100-year floodplain areas and floodway districts from
existing adopted maps or data; and
      (5)   A line or contour representing the ordinary high water level, the
“toe” and the “top” of bluffs, and the minimum building setback distances from
the top of the bluff and the lake or stream.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.088 DEDICATIONS.
   When a land or easement dedication is a condition of subdivision approval,
the approval must provide easements over natural drainage or ponding areas for
management of stormwater and significant wetlands.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.089 PLATTING.
   All subdivisions that create five or more lots or parcels that are two and
one-half acres or less in size shall be processed as a plat in accordance with
M.S. Chapter 505, as it may be amended from time to time. No permit for
construction of buildings or sewage treatment systems shall be issued for lots
created after these official controls were enacted unless the lot was approved
as part of a formal subdivision.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.090 CONTROLLED ACCESS OR RECREATIONAL LOTS.
   Lots intended as controlled accesses to public waters or for recreational
use areas for use by non-riparian lots within a subdivision must meet or exceed
the sizing criteria in §
154.050(B).
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUDS)
§ 154.105 TYPES OF PUDS PERMISSIBLE.
   Planned unit developments (PUDs) are allowed for new projects on undeveloped
land, redevelopment of previously built sites, or conversions of existing
buildings and land. The land use districts in which they are an allowable use
are identified in the land use district descriptions in §
154.036 and the official zoning map.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.106 PROCESSING OF PUDS.
   Planned unit developments must be processed as a conditional use, except
that an expansion to an existing commercial PUD involving six or fewer new
dwelling units or sites since the date this chapter was adopted is permissible
as a permitted use provided the total project density does not exceed the
allowable densities calculated in the project density evaluation procedures in
§
154.109. Approval cannot occur until the environmental review process (EAW/EIS)
is complete.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.107 APPLICATION FOR A PUD.
   The applicant for a PUD must submit the following documents prior to final
action being taken on the application request:
   (A)   A site plan and/or plat for the project showing locations of property
boundaries, surface water features, existing and proposed structures and other
facilities, land alterations and topographic contours at two-foot intervals or
less. When a PUD is a combined commercial and residential development, the site
plan and/or plat must indicate and distinguish which buildings and portions of
the project are residential, commercial or a combination of the two;
   (B)   A property owners association agreement (for residential PUDs) with
mandatory membership, and all in accordance with the requirements of §
154.110;
   (C)   Deed restrictions, covenants, permanent easements or other instruments
that:
      (1)   Properly address future vegetation and topographic alterations,
construction of additional buildings, beaching of watercraft and construction
of commercial buildings in residential PUDs; and
      (2)   Ensure the long-term preservation and maintenance of open space in
accordance with the criteria and analysis specified in §
154.110.
   (D)   When necessary, a master plan describing the project and the floor
plan for all commercial structures to be occupied; and
   (E)   Those additional documents as requested by the planning agency that
are necessary to explain how the PUD will be designed and will function.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.108 SITE “SUITABLE AREA” EVALUATION.
   Proposed new or expansions to existing planned unit developments must be
evaluated using the following procedures and standards to determine the
suitable area for the dwelling unit/dwelling site density evaluation in §
154.109.
   (A)   The project parcel must be divided into tiers by locating one or more
lines approximately parallel to a line that identifies the ordinary high water
level at intervals of 200 feet proceeding landward.
   (B)   The suitable area within each tier is next calculated by excluding
from the tier area all wetlands, bluffs or land below the ordinary high water
level of public waters. This suitable area and the proposed project are then
subjected to either the residential or commercial planned unit development
density evaluation steps to arrive at an allowable number of dwelling units or
sites.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.109 RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL PUD DENSITY EVALUATION.
   The procedures for determining the “base” density of a PUD and density
increase multipliers are as follows. Allowable densities may be transferred
from any tier further from the waterbody, but must not be transferred to any
other tier closer.
   (A)   Residential PUD “base” density evaluation. The suitable area within
each tier is divided by the single residential lot size standard for the lake,
the single residential lot width standard times the tier depth, shall be used
to yield a base density of dwelling units or sites for each tier. Proposed
locations and numbers of dwelling units or sites for the residential planned
unit developments are then compared with the tier, density and suitability
analysis herein and the design criteria in §
154.110.
   (B)   Commercial PUD “base” density evaluation.
      (1)   Determine the average inside living area size of dwelling units or
sites within each tier, including both existing and proposed units and sites.
Computation of inside living area sizes need not include decks, patios, stoops,
steps, garages or porches and basements, unless they are habitable space.
   (2)   Select the appropriate floor area ratio from the following table:
Commercial Planned Unit Development Floor Area Ratios For Lily and Crystal
Lakes
Average Floor Area* Ratio
Commercial Planned Unit Development Floor Area Ratios For Lily and Crystal
Lakes
Average Floor Area* Ratio
200                 .040
300                 .048
400                 .056
500                 .065
600                 .072
700                 .082
800                 .091
900                 .099
1,000               .108
1,100               .116
1,200               .125
1,300               .133
1,400               .142
1,500               .150
*For average unit floor areas less than shown, use the floor area ratios
listed for 200 square feet. For areas greater than shown, use the ratios
listed for 1,500 square feet. For recreational camping areas, use the ratios
listed at 400 square feet. Manufactured home sites in recreational camping
areas shall use a ratio equal to the size of the manufactured home, or if
unknown, the ratio listed for 1,000 square feet.
 
      (3)   Multiply the suitable area within each tier by the floor area ratio
to yield total floor area for each tier allowed to be used for dwelling units
or sites.
      (4)   Divide the total floor area by tier computed in division (B)(3)
above by the average inside living area size determined in division (B)(1)
above. This yields a base number of dwelling units and sites for each tier.
      (5)   Proposed locations and numbers of dwelling units or sites for the
commercial planned unit development are then compared with the tier, density
and suitability analyses herein and the design criteria in §
154.110.
   (C)   Density increases multipliers.
      (1)   Increases to the dwelling unit or dwelling site base densities
previously determined are allowable if the dimensional standards in §§
154.050 through
154.056 are met or exceeded and the design criteria in §
154.110 are satisfied. The allowable density increases in division (C)(2) below
will only be allowed if structure setbacks from the ordinary high water level
are increased to at least 50% greater than the minimum setback, or the impact
on the waterbody is reduced an equivalent amount through vegetative management,
topography, or additional means acceptable to the local unit of government and
the setback is at least 25% greater than the minimum setback.
      (2)   Allowable dwelling unit or dwelling site density increases for
residential or commercial planned unit developments:
 
Density Evaluation Tiers Maximum Density Increase Within Each Tier (Percent)
First                    50
Second                   100
Third                    200
Fourth                   200
Fifth                    200
 
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.110 MAINTENANCE AND DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   Maintenance and administration requirements.
      (1)   Before final approval of a planned unit development, adequate
provisions must be developed for preservation and maintenance in perpetuity of
open spaces and for the continued existence and functioning of the development.
      (2)   Open space preservation: deed restrictions, covenants, permanent
easements, public dedication and acceptance or other equally effective and
permanent means must be provided to ensure long term preservation and
maintenance of open space; the instruments must include all of the following
protections:
         (a)   Commercial uses are prohibited for residential PUDs;
         (b)   Vegetation and topographic alterations other than routine
maintenance are prohibited;
         (c)   Construction of additional buildings or storage of vehicles and
other materials are prohibited; and
         (d)   Uncontrolled beaching of watercraft are prohibited.
      (3)   Development organization and functioning: unless equally effective
alternative community framework is established, when applicable, all
residential planned unit developments must use an owners association with the
following features.
         (a)   Membership must be mandatory for each dwelling unit or site
purchaser and any successive purchasers.
         (b)   Each member must pay a pro rata share of the association’s
expenses, and unpaid assessments can become liens on units or sites.
         (c)   Assessments must be adjustable to accommodate changing
conditions.
         (d)   The association must be responsible for insurance, taxes and
maintenance of all commonly owned property and facilities.
   (B)   Open space requirements. Planned unit development must contain open
space meeting of all the following criteria.
      (1)   At least 50% of the total project area must be preserved as open
space.
      (2)   Dwelling units or sites, road right-of-way or land covered by road
surfaces, parking areas or structures, except water-oriented accessory
structures or facilities, are developed areas and shall not be included in the
computation of minimum open space.
      (3)   Open space must include areas with physical characteristics
unsuitable for development in their natural state, and areas containing
significant historic sites or unplatted cemeteries.
      (4)   Open space may include outdoor recreational facilities for use by
owners of dwelling units or sites, by guests staying in commercial dwelling
units or sites, and by the general public.
      (5)   Open space must not include commercial facilities or uses, but may
contain water-oriented accessory structures or facilities.
      (6)   The appearance of open space areas, including topography,
vegetation and allowable uses, must be preserved by the use of restrictive deed
covenants, permanent easements, public dedication and acceptance, or other
equally effective and permanent means.
      (7)   The shore impact zone, based on normal structure setbacks, must be
included as open space. For residential PUDs, at least 50% of the shore impact
zone area of existing developments or at least 70% of the shore impact zone
area of new developments must be preserved in its natural or existing state.
For commercial PUDs at least 50% of the shore impact zone must be preserved in
its natural state.
   (C)   Erosion control and stormwater management. Erosion control and
stormwater management plans must be developed and the PUD must:
      (1)   Be designed, and the construction managed, to minimize the
likelihood of serious erosion occurring either during or after construction.
This must be accomplished by limiting the amount and length of time of bare
ground exposure. Temporary ground covers, sediment entrapment facilities,
vegetated buffer strips or other appropriate techniques must be used to
minimize erosion impacts on surface water features. Erosion control plans
approved by a soil and water conservation district may be required if project
size and site physical characteristics warrant; and
      (2)   Be designed and constructed to effectively manage reasonably
expected quantities and qualities of stormwater runoff. Impervious surface
coverage within any tier must not exceed 25% of the tier area, except that for
commercial PUDs 35% impervious surface coverage may be allowed in the first
tier of general development lakes with an approved stormwater management plan
and consistency with §
154.052.
   (D)   Centralization and design of facilities. Centralization and design of
facilities and structures must be done according to the following standards.
      (1)   Planned unit developments must be connected to municipal water
supply and sewer systems.
      (2)   Dwelling units or sites must be clustered into one or more groups
and located on suitable areas of development. They must be designed and located
to meet or exceed the following dimensional standards for the relevant
shoreland classification: setback from the ordinary high water level, elevation
above the surface water features, and maximum height. Setbacks from the
ordinary high water level must be increased in accordance with §
154.109(C) for developments with density increases.
      (3)   Shore recreation facilities, including, but not limited to,
swimming areas, docks and watercraft mooring areas and launching ramps, must be
centralized and located in areas suitable for them. Evaluation of suitability
must include consideration of land slope, water depth, vegetation, soils, depth
of groundwater and bedrock, or other relevant factors. The number of spaces
provided for continuous beaching, mooring or docking of watercraft must not
exceed one for each allowable dwelling unit or site in the first tier
(notwithstanding existing mooring sites in an existing commercially used
harbor). Launching ramp facilities, including a small dock for loading and
unloading equipment, may be provided for use by occupants of dwelling units of
sites located in other tiers.
      (4)   Structures, parking areas and other facilities must be treated to
reduce visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by
vegetation, topography, increased setbacks, color or other means acceptable to
the local unit of government, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions. Vegetative
and topographic screening must be preserved, if existing, or may be required to
be provided.
      (5)   Accessory structures and facilities, except water-oriented
accessory structures, must meet the required principal structure setback and
must be centralized.
      (6)   Water-oriented accessory structures and facilities may be allowed
if they meet or exceed design standards contained in §
154.050(C) and are centralized.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
§ 154.111 CONVERSIONS.
   Local governments may allow existing resorts or other land uses and
facilities to be converted to residential planned unit developments if all of
the following standards are met.
   (A)   Proposed conversions must be initially evaluated using the same
procedures for residential planned unit developments involving all new
construction. Inconsistencies between existing features of the development and
these standards must be identified.
   (B)   Deficiencies involving structure color, impervious coverage, open
space and shore recreation facilities must be corrected as part of the
conversion or as specified in the conditional use permit.
   (C)   Shore and bluff impact zone deficiencies must be evaluated and
reasonable improvements made as part of the conversion; these improvements must
include, where applicable, the following:
      (1)   Removal of extraneous building, docks or other facilities that no
longer need to be located in shore or bluff impact zones.
      (2)   Remedial measures to correct erosion sites and improve vegetation
cover and screening of buildings and other facilities as viewed from the water.
      (3)   If existing dwelling units are located in shore or bluff impact
zones, conditions are attached to approvals of conversions that preclude
exterior expansions in any dimensions or substantial alterations. The
conditions must also provide for future relocation of dwelling units, where
feasible, to other locations, meeting all setback and elevation requirements
when they are rebuilt or replaced.
   (D)   Existing dwelling unit or dwelling site densities that exceed
standards in §
154.109 may be allowed to continue but must not be allowed to be increased,
either at the time of conversion or in the future. Efforts must be made during
the conversion to limit impacts of high densities by requiring seasonal use,
improving vegetative screening, centralizing shore recreational facilities or
other means.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-3-1992)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Jurisdiction
   
155.03   Compliance
   
155.04   Required approvals of subdivision plats
   
155.05   Conflict
   
155.06   Conveyance requirement
   
155.07   Disclosure by seller
   
155.08   Definitions
   
155.09   Variances
   
155.10   Registered land surveys
   
155.11   Conformance to zoning
   
155.12   Fees
   
155.13   Administrative lot splits
Procedure for Plat Submission
   
155.25   Concept plan review
   
155.26   Preliminary plat submission
   
155.27   Review and action on preliminary plat
   
155.28   Final plat
   
155.29   Final plat submission
   
155.30   Partial final plat
   
155.31   Review and action on final plat
   
155.32   Effect of subdivision approval
Documents to be Filed
   
155.45   Data required for concept review
   
155.46   Data required for preliminary plat
   
155.47   Data required for final plat
Design Standards
   
155.60   General requirements
   
155.61   Streets
   
155.62   Easements
   
155.63   Block standards
   
155.64   Lot standards
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority contained in M.S. § 462.358, as it may be amended
from time to time, this chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To provide for the orderly, economic and safe development of land and
urban services and facilities;
   (B)   To promote the public health, safety and general welfare of the
residents of the city; and
   (C)   To assure equitable handling of all subdivision plats by providing
uniform procedures.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.02 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations governing plats and the subdivision of land shall apply to
the area within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.03 COMPLIANCE.
   After the adoption of this chapter, no lot in a subdivision shall be sold,
no permit shall be issued to alter or erect any building upon land in a
subdivision, and no building shall be erected in a subdivision except in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.04 REQUIRED APPROVALS OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   Before any plat shall have any validity, it shall have been reviewed by the
City Planning Commission and approved by the City Council and recorded in the
Office of the County Recorder.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.05 CONFLICT.
   It is not intended by this chapter to annul or interfere with any other
official regulations or ordinances of the city; provided, however, that when
there is a difference between minimum standards or dimensions herein and those
contained in other official regulations or ordinances of the city, the most
restrictive standards shall apply.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.06 CONVEYANCE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   After the adoption of this chapter, no conveyance of land to which
this chapter is applicable shall be filed or recorded if the land in the
conveyance is described by metes and bounds description, an unapproved
registered land survey made after April 21, 1961, or to an unapproved plat.
   (B)   The provision in division (A) above shall not apply to a conveyance if
the land described:
      (1)   Was a separate parcel of record created by metes and bounds
description or any registered land survey on or before April 21, 1961;
      (2)   Was a separate parcel of record or was the subject of a written
agreement to convey on or before April 1, 1945;
      (3)   Was a separate parcel of not less than two and one-half acres and
150 feet in width on January 1, 1966;
      (4)   Was a separate parcel of not less than five acres and 300 feet in
width on July 1, 1980;
      (5)   Is a single parcel of commercial or industrial land of not less
than five acres and having a width of not less than 300 feet and its conveyance
does not result in the division of the parcel into two or more lots or parcels,
any one of which is less than five acres in area or 300 feet in width; or
      (6)   It is a single parcel of residential or agricultural land of not
less than 20 acres and having a width of not less than 500 feet and its
conveyance does not result in the division of the parcel into two or more lots
or parcels, any one of which is less than 20 acres in area or 500 feet in
width.
   (C)   In any case in which compliance with the above provision division (A)
above will create an unnecessary hardship and failure to comply does not
interfere with the purpose of this chapter, the City Council may waive the
compliance by resolution thereby permitting filing or recording.
   (D)   Any owner or any agent of an owner of land who conveys a lot or parcel
in violation of the provisions of this section shall forfeit and pay to the
city a penalty of not less than $100 for conveyance or parcel so conveyed. A
municipality may enjoin the conveyance or may recover the penalty by a civil
action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.07 DISCLOSURE BY SELLER.
   (A)   Any person conveying a lot created after the adoption of this chapter
shall attach to the instrument of conveyance one of the following:
      (1)   A recordable certificate signed by the City Administrator that the
requirements of this chapter do not apply;
      (2)   A recordable certificate signed by the City Administrator that the
requirements of this chapter have been fulfilled; or
      (3)   A recordable certificate that the restrictions on the division of
taxes and filing and recording have been waived by the City Council. The waiver
shall only be granted when compliance with this chapter will create an
unnecessary hardship and failure to comply will not interfere with the purpose
of this chapter.
   (B)   In cases where division (A) above is not used, the seller shall attach
to the instrument of conveyance, a statement which:
      (1)   Names and identifies the location of the appropriate municipal
offices and advises the grantee that municipal subdivision and zoning
regulations may restrict the use or restrict or prohibit the development of the
parcel, or construction on it; and
      (2)   That the division of taxes and the filing or recording of the
conveyance may be prohibited unless a recordable certificate or waiver has been
issued according to division (A) above.
   (C)   In any action commenced by a buyer of such a parcel against the seller
thereof, the misrepresentation of or the failure to disclose material facts in
accordance with this chapter shall be grounds for damages. If the buyer
establishes his or her right to damages, a district court hearing the matter
may in its discretion also award to the buyer an amount sufficient to pay all
or any part of the costs incurred in maintaining the action, including
reasonable attorney fees, and an amount for punitive damages not exceeding 5%
of the purchase price of the land.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.08 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on some other street.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative. Consent shall be required from the local owner of the premises
prior to subdividing the property.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of waterways
or boundary lines of municipalities.
   CITY COUNCIL. The governing body of Lake Crystal, Minnesota, authorized by
law to enforce this chapter.
   CITY ENGINEER. The engineer designated by the City Council to furnish
engineering assistance for the administration of this chapter.
   CITY PLANNING COMMISSION. The planning review body of Lake Crystal,
Minnesota, authorized by law to implement this chapter.
   CONCEPT PLAN. A sketch preparatory to the preparation of the preliminary
plat to enable the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general
conclusions with the Planning Commission as to the form of the plat and
objectives of this chapter.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. The specifications to landowners or subdividers for the
preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other
things, the optimum, minimum or maximum dimensions of such items as rights-of-
way, blocks, easements and lots.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land for the
purpose of constructing and maintaining utilities, including, but not limited
to, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, storm sewer
or storm drainageways and gas lines.
   LAND USE POLICY PLAN. The Lake Crystal, Minnesota land use policy plan.
Maps, charts and information that form the basis for long-range planning for
the city.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way across a block or within a
block providing access for pedestrians and which may be used for the
installation of utilities.
   PLAT. The drawing or map of a subdivision prepared for filing of record
pursuant to M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be amended from time to time, and
containing all elements and requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The map, drawing or chart indicating the proposed
layout of the subdivision to be submitted to the Planning Commission for its
consideration.
      (2)   FINAL PLAT. A drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all the
requirements of the city and in such form as required by this chapter for
purposes of recording.
   STREET. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, land, place or
however otherwise designated.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating
the street.
   SUBDIVIDER/OWNER. Any person who: having an interest in land, causes it,
directly or indirectly, to be divided into a subdivision; or who directly or
indirectly, sells, leases or develops, or offers to sell, lease or develop, or
advertises for sale, lease or development, any interest, lot, parcel site, unit
or plat in a subdivision; or who engages directly or through an agent in the
business of selling, leasing, developing or offering for sale, lease or
development a subdivision or any interest, lot, parcel site, unit or plat in a
subdivision; and who is directly or indirectly controlled by, or under direct,
or indirect common control with any of the foregoing.
   SUBDIVISION. The separation of an area, parcel or tract of land under single
ownership into two or more parcels, tracts, lots or long-term leasehold
interests where the creation of the leasehold interest necessitates the
creation of streets, roads or alleys, for residential, commercial, industrial
or other use or any combination thereof, except those separations:
      (1)   Where all the resulting parcels, tracts, lots or interests will be
20 acres or larger in size and 500 feet in width for residential uses and five
acres or larger in size and 300 feet in width for commercial and industrial
uses;
      (2)   Creating cemetery lots; or
      (3)   Resulting from court orders, or the adjustment of a lot line by the
relocation of a common boundary.
   SURVEYOR. A land surveyor properly licensed and registered in the State of
Minnesota.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.09 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may recommend to the Council a variance from
the provisions of this chapter when, in its opinion, undue hardship may result
from strict compliance.
      (1)   In granting any variance, the Council shall take into account the
nature of the proposed use of the land, the existing use of the land in the
vicinity, number of persons who reside or work in the proposed subdivision and
the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic conditions in the
vicinity.
      (2)   No variance shall be granted unless the Council finds that:
         (a)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property, such as strict application of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
         (b)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of
substantial property rights of the petitioner;
         (c)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to the other property in the territory in which the
property is situated; and
         (d)   Strict application of the subdivision regulations would create
an undue hardship on a property owner as opposed to mere inconvenience.
   (B)   Recommendations of variances to the Council shall list findings of
fact and reasons substantiating the findings of fact.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.10 REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS.
   (A)   All registered land surveys filed with the City Administrator shall be
subject to the same procedure as required for the filing of a plat. The
standards and requirements set forth in this chapter shall apply to all
registered land surveys.
   (B)   Unless the City Council shall approve, a registered land survey shall
not be used to divide the parcel of land into tracts for the purpose of
transfer of ownership or building development, if any of the tracts do not have
the minimum lot area or required frontage on a dedicated public street.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.11 CONFORMANCE TO ZONING.
   Final approval of any plat or registered land survey under the provisions of
this chapter shall not relieve the developer or property owner of any
obligation to meet all requirements contained in the city zoning ordinance. Any
provisions of this chapter which are more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.12 FEES.
   The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a fee as may be established by
resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.13 ADMINISTRATIVE LOT SPLITS.
   The City Administrator and Mayor may administratively approve the division
of platted property or approve the relocation of platted lot lines provided:
   (A)   All requirements of this code are satisfied and no substandard lots
are created;
   (B)   The applicant submits an application to a city for an administrative
lot split or to otherwise modify platted lot lines;
   (C)   The applicant submits a certificate of survey of the re-platted
properties to be reviewed and approved by the City Administrator and Mayor and
once approved the certificate is to be recorded at the Blue Earth County
Recorder's Office by the applicant;
   (D)   The applicant shall also provide to the city a certified survey
showing all applicable set backs for each lot, the administrative lot split
process shall not be used if a resulting lot cannot be built upon;
   (E)   Should any lot adjustment require the vacation of any platted utility
easement (s), it will be the responsibility of the applicant to petition for
the vacation of the utility easement(s);
   (F)   Should any existing above or below ground utility need to be relocated
as a result of a lot line adjustment, the applicant is responsible for any
associated costs;
   (G)   Any relocation of a lot line(s) requires new property monuments to be
installed by a licensed surveyor; and
   (H)   Any relocation of lot lines shall not affect more than three lots.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 3-6-2023)
PROCEDURE FOR PLAT SUBMISSION
§ 155.25 CONCEPT PLAN REVIEW.
   Prior to the filing of an application of a preliminary plat, the owner or
owner’s representative and his or her surveyor or engineer shall meet with the
City Planning Commission for informal discussion of the proposed plat. As far
as may be practical on the basis of the informal discussion, the Planning
Commission will advise as to the extent which the proposed subdivision concept
conforms to the city’s land use policy plan, this chapter and other applicable
city ordinances and suggest possible plan modifications necessary to ensure
conformance. In addition to the informal review of the concept, the owner shall
be notified of the kind and extent of improvements to be made by him or her.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.26 PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMISSION.
   Before any lot or parcel less than five acres in area may be conveyed of
record, the owner shall file with the City Administrator at least 15 working
days before the regular meeting date of the Planning Commission, the following
materials:
   (A)   A completed subdivision application including payment of the
application fees;
   (B)   Ten prints of a preliminary plat completed in compliance with the
provision of §
155.46; and
   (C)   Other supplementary material as enumerated in this chapter.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.27 REVIEW AND ACTION ON PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Public hearing required.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the above information, the City Administrator shall
place the proposed plat on the agenda of the next regular Planning Commission
meeting.
      (2)   A public hearing shall be held on the preliminary plat application.
Notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing shall be published in the
official newspaper of the municipality at least ten days prior to the day of
the hearing. Notification shall also be mailed to the subdivider and the owner
(s) of the property immediately adjacent to the land within the plat.
   (B)   Review and action. The Planning Commission shall within a reasonable
time, pass upon the preliminary plat as originally submitted or modified. If
approved, the Planning Commission shall express its approval as conditional
approval and state the conditions of the approval, if any, or if disapproved,
shall express its reasons. The approval or disapproval shall be transmitted to
the Council and the Council shall approve or disapprove the preliminary plat.
Approval means the acceptance of the preliminary plat as the basis for
preparation of a final plat.
   (C)   Time limits for review of the preliminary plat.
      (1)   A subdivision application shall be preliminarily approved or
disapproved within 60 days following delivery of an application completed in
compliance with this chapter by the applicant of the city, unless an extension
of the review period has been agreed to by the applicant.
      (2)   If the City Council fails to preliminarily approve or disapprove an
application within the review period, the application shall be deemed
preliminarily approved, and upon demand the City Administrator shall execute a
certificate to that effect.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.28 FINAL PLAT.
   The final plat, conforming substantially to the preliminary plat as
approved, shall be submitted to the City Administrator at least 15 days before
the regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission. The City
Administrator shall place the final plat on the agenda of the next regular
Planning Commission meeting and send notices as may be required.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.29 FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION.
   (A)   Six prints of a final plat completed in compliance with the provisions
of §
155.47; and
   (B)   Other supplementary material as enumerated in this chapter.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.30 PARTIAL FINAL PLAT.
   The owner may file the final plat limited to such portion of the preliminary
plat which he or she proposes to record and develop at the time, provided that
the portion conforms to all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.31 REVIEW AND ACTION ON FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   When a final plat meets all the conditions of this chapter, the
Planning Commission shall recommend approval to the Council and the Council
shall act on the recommendation. Following final approval or disapproval by the
Council, the City Administrator shall notify the owner or subdivider of the
Council action and the final plat, when duly certified, signed and acknowledged
by the Planning Commission and Council shall then be recorded in the office of
the County Recorder. After the final plat has been filed by the County
Recorder, the owner shall provide the City Administrator with the Mylar copy of
the final plat as executed.
   (B)   (1)   A subdivision application shall be granted final approval within
60 days if the applicant has complied with all applicable provisions of this
chapter and all expressly stated conditions of preliminary plat approval.
      (2)   If the City Council fails to grant final approval within the review
period and if the applicant has complied with this chapter and all expressly
stated conditions, the subdivision application shall be deemed finally
approved, and upon demand the City Administrator shall execute a certificate to
that effect.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.32 EFFECT OF SUBDIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   For one year following preliminary approval and for two years
following final approval, unless the subdivider and the city agree otherwise,
no amendment to the Land Use Policy Plan, the zoning ordinance, subdivision
ordinance or other city ordinance shall apply to or affect the use, development
density, lot size, lot layout or dedication or platting required or permitted
by the approved application.
   (B)   Thereafter, pursuant to this chapter the city may extend the period by
agreement with the subdivider subject to all applicable performance conditions
and requirements, or it may require submission of a new application unless
substantial physical activity and investment has occurred in reasonable
reliance on the approved application and the subdivider will suffer substantial
financial damage as a consequence of a requirement to submit a new application.
In connection with a subdivision involving planned and staged development, the
city may by resolution or agreement grant the rights referred to in this
section for such periods of time longer than two years which it determines to
be reasonable and appropriate.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
DOCUMENTS TO BE FILED
§ 155.45 DATA REQUIRED FOR CONCEPT REVIEW.
   (A)   The concept plan to be submitted to the Planning Commission shall be
based upon an accurate base map which enables the entire tract to be shown on
one sheet.
   (B)   The concept plan shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The location of that portion which is to be subdivided in relation
to the entire tract, and the existing street pattern;
      (2)   All existing structures, wooded areas, streams and other
significant physical features, within the portion to be subdivided. All bench
marks shall be referenced to local datum or U.S.G.S. if readily available;
      (3)   The name of the owner and of all adjoining property owners as
disclosed by the most recent tax records;
      (4)   All utilities available, and all streets which are either proposed,
mapped or built;
      (5)   Proposed pattern of lots and street layout; and
      (6)   All existing restrictions on the use of the land including
easements or zoning lines.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.46 DATA REQUIRED FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Identification and description.
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision. It shall not duplicate the
names of any plat previously recorded in the county or in the city;
      (2)   Location by section, township and range, or by other legal
description;
      (3)   The names and addresses of the owner and subdivider having control
of the lands included in the preliminary plat, the designer of the plat and the
surveyor;
      (4)   Graphic scale, not less than one inch to 100 feet;
      (5)   A north arrow; and
      (6)   Date of preparation of the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Existing conditions.
      (1)   An accurately drawn, to scale, preliminary plat including distances
and total acreage in plat as well as individual lots;
      (2)   Location and names of existing or platted streets or other public
ways, parks and other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures,
easements, section lines and city boundary lines within the tract and to a
distance of 100 feet beyond the tract;
      (3)   If the proposed subdivision is a rearrangement or a replat of any
former plat, the lot and block arrangement of the original plat along with its
original name shall be indicated by dotted and dashed lines. Also, any revised
or vacated roadways or. the original plat shall be so indicated;
      (4)   Location and size of existing paved streets, railroads, sewers,
water mains, quarries, gravel pits, culverts or other underground facilities
within the tract and to a distance of 100 feet beyond the tract. Also, such
data as grades, invert elevation and location of catch basing, manholes and
hydrants; and
      (5)   Complete topographic map, when practical and necessary for the
development of the subdivision, with contour intervals not greater than two
feet. Watercourses, marshes, rock outcrops and other significant features
should be shown. All topographic information should be shown on the preliminary
plat.
   (C)   Design features of preliminary plats.
      (1)   Layout of streets, showing rights-of-way, widths and names;
      (2)   Locations and widths of alleys and pedestrian ways;
      (3)   Layout, lot and block numbers, and typical lot dimensions scaled to
the nearest foot;
      (4)   Areas other than those mentioned above intended to be dedicated for
public use, including the size of those areas;
      (5)   A draft of proposed restrictive covenants if any are contemplated;
and
      (6)   A lot grading plan will be included with the subdivision plat. The
lot grading plan will include front yard and rear yard elevations along with a
proposed house site, including elevations therefor. The house site first floor
or garage elevation shall be no more than 18 inches above the elevation of each
lot established by the lot grading plan.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981; Ord. 258, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 155.47 DATA REQUIRED FOR FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat shall be on a sheet of Mylar 20 inches wide and 30
inches long and shall be drawn to scale.
      (1)   The final plat shall comply with the requirements of M.S. Ch. 505,
as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Where necessary, the final plat may be on several sheets provided
they are numbered and a key map is presented on the sheets showing the entire
subdivision.
      (3)   The final plat shall have incorporated all changes or modifications
required and in all other respects conform to the approved preliminary plat.
      (4)   The final plat may constitute only that portion of the approved
preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop, provided
that the portion conforms with all the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The information which is required for the final plat shall be that
required by M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be amended from time to time, plus
additional requirements when the requirements do not conflict with M.S. Ch.
505, as it may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   Site data such as number of lots, typical lot size, park acreage;
and
      (2)   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping center,
industry or other non-public uses exclusive of that information about
subdivision’s own land use classification.
   (C)   Boundary line survey: boundary line survey including measured
distances and angles, which shall close by latitude and departure with an error
of closure not exceeding one foot in 7,500 feet.
   (D)   Certifications required on final plat:
      (1)   Notarized certification by registered land surveyor to the effect
that the plat represents a survey made by him or her and that monuments and
markers shown on the plat exist as located and that all dimensional and
geodetic details are correct;
      (2)   Notarized certification by owner, and by any mortgage holder of
record of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas; and
      (3)   Certification showing that all delinquent taxes and special
assessments due on the property have been paid in full.
   (E)   Forms of approval required on the final plat.
      (1)   Form of approval by the City Council as follows:
   Approved by the City Council of Lake Crystal, Minnesota, this _____ day of
___________, 20___.
   Signed: _________________________________
         Mayor
   Attest: _________________________________
         City Administrator
      (2)   Form of review of the Planning Commission as follows:
Reviewed by the Planning Commission of the city of Lake Crystal, Minnesota,
this ______day of ____________, 20____.
Signed:   ____________________      __________________
   Chairperson               Secretary
      (3)   Form of approval required by the Director of Taxpayer Services or
County Recorder. As per county requirements.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 155.60 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission in its review of a preliminary plat, will take
into consideration the requirements of the community and the best use of the
land being subdivided. Particular attention will be given to the arrangement,
location and width of streets, general drainage situation, lot sizes and
arrangements, as well as land use policy plan requirements for parks, school
sites and streets, but not limited to these.
   (B)   Where the parcel is subdivided into larger tracts than for building
lots, the parcels shall be divided so as to allow for the opening of major
streets and the ultimate extension of adjacent minor streets.
   (C)   Drainage shall be provided for in the subdivision by adequate storm
drains or by maintenance of natural drainage channels.
   (D)   Subdivisions showing unplatted strips or private streets controlling
access to public ways shall not receive approval.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.61 STREETS.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, width and location of streets
shall conform to the Land Use Policy Plan, the approved standard street
sections and all applicable ordinances, and shall be considered in their
relation to existing and planned streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic,
to topographical conditions, to runoff of storm water, to public convenience
and safety and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the area
to be served.
   (B)   Street right-of-way widths shall be adequate to serve the proposed use
and shall be designed according to current standards.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.62 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements shall be wide enough to accommodate the utility proposed and
whenever possible shall be centered on lot lines. Easements shall have
continuity of alignment from block to block and at deflection points.
   (B)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream, a storm water easement or drainageway right-of-way
conforming substantially with the line of the watercourse shall be provided,
together with the further width or construction, or both, as will be adequate
for the storm water drainage of the area.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.63 BLOCK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Maximum length of a block shall be 1,200 feet. Blocks over 600 feet
long may require pedestrian ways at least ten feet wide at their approximate
centers. The use of additional access ways to schools, parks and other
destinations may be required.
   (B)   Residential blocks shall normally be of sufficient width for two tiers
of lots.
   (C)   Blocks intended for commercial and industrial use shall be designated
as such.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
§ 155.64 LOT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Corner lots in any of the classes of residential districts shall have
extra width and sufficient depth for establishing a building setback on both
streets.
   (B)   All lots shall have at least a minimum of 30 feet required frontage on
a public dedicated street.
   (C)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to the
street line.
   (D)   Double frontage where lots with frontage on two parallel streets shall
be avoided except where it is essential to provide separation of residential
development from traffic arteries or to overcome topographic or other
conditions which render subdividing otherwise unreasonable. The double frontage
lots shall have additional depth in order to allow space for screen planting
along the rear lot line.
   (E)   Lots intended for commercial, industrial and multiple dwelling units
shall be designed as such and the lot must be adequate size to allow off-street
parking, loading areas and such other facilities as are required to satisfy the
requirements of the city’s zoning ordinance (Chapter 156).
   (F)   Lots abutting on a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream shall
have an additional depth or width, as required to assure building sites that
are not subject to flooding.
(Ord. 163, passed - -1981)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Title
   
156.02   Purpose and intent
   
156.03   Scope and interpretation
   
156.04   Rules; language
   
156.05   Definitions
   
156.06   Administration, building permit, certificate of occupancy
   
156.07   Board of Zoning Adjustment
   
156.08   Amendment
   
156.09   Violations; enforcement
Classification of Districts
   
156.20   Districts
   
156.21   Zoning map
   
156.22   District boundaries
   
156.23   Future annexation
Zoning Districts; Regulations
   
156.35   R-1 Agriculture Residence District
   
156.36   R-2 Residence District
   
156.37   R-3 Multiple-Family Residence District
   
156.38   B-1 Limited Business District
   
156.39   B-2 Central Business District
   
156.40   I-1 General Industry District
   
156.41   I-2 Limited Industry District
   
156.42   Special uses
   
156.43   Urban Service District and Rural Service District
General Regulations
   
156.55   Standards
   
156.56   Sign regulations
   
156.57   Off-street parking and loading regulations
   
156.58   Performance standards
   
156.59   Additional requirements, exceptions and modifications
   
156.60   Environmental review program
   
156.61   Home occupations
   
156.62   Solar energy systems
   
156.63   Wind energy conversion systems
   
156.64   Conditional use permits
   
156.65   Nonconforming uses
   
156.66   Erosion control
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the “Lake
Crystal Zoning Ordinance”; when referred to herein, it shall be known as “this
chapter”.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This chapter is enacted for the following purposes: to promote the health,
safety and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city by lessening
congestion in the public rights-of-way, securing safety from fire, panic and
other dangers; providing adequate light and air; preventing the overcrowding of
land; avoiding undue concentration of population; facilitating the adequate
provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public
requirements; conserving the value of properties; and encouraging the most
appropriate use of land.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.03 SCOPE AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Scope. From and after the effective date of this chapter, the use of
all land and every building or portion of a building erected, altered with
respect to height and area, added to or relocated, and every use within a
building or use accessory thereto in the city shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. No lot shall be so reduced that the area of the lot
or dimensions of the open spaces shall be smaller than herein prescribed. Any
existing building or structure and any existing use of properties not in
conformity with the regulations herein prescribed shall be regarded as
nonconforming, but may be continued, extended or changed subject to the special
regulations herein provided with respect to nonconforming properties or uses.
   (B)   Interpretation. In interpreting and applying the provisions of this
chapter, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where the
provisions of this chapter impose greater restrictions than those of any
statute, other ordinance or regulation, the provisions of this chapter shall be
controlling. Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance or regulation
impose greater restrictions than this chapter, the provisions of the statute,
other ordinance or regulation shall be controlling.
   (C)   Validity. If any portion of this chapter is deemed to be invalid or
illegal, that the remaining portions of the ordinance would still be in effect.
Specifically, the invalidation of one portion of the ordinance does not
invalidate the entire ordinance.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.04 RULES; LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Word usage. For the purpose of this chapter, words used in the present
tense shall include the future; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and the plural the singular; the word “building” shall include the word
“structure”; the word “lot” shall include the word “plot”; and the word “shall”
is mandatory and not discretionary.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses of land or buildings, as hereinafter
listed, shall be permitted in the districts indicated under the conditions
specified; no building or land shall be devoted to any use other than a use
permitted hereinafter in the zoning district in which the building, structure
or land shall be located, except for the following exceptions:
      (1)   Uses lawfully established prior to the effective date of this
chapter; and
      (2)   Conditional uses allowed in accordance with division (C) below.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses of land or buildings, as
hereinafter listed, may be allowed in the districts indicated, subject to the
issuance of conditional use permits, in accordance with the provisions of §
156.64. Whenever a conditional use is named as a major category, it shall be
deemed to include all and only those itemized uses listed.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or portion of the main building
which is located on the same lot as the main building and the use of which is
clearly incidental to the use of the main building.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground, but having
less than half of its floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining grounds.
   BOARDING HOUSE. Any dwelling other than a hotel or motel where meals or
lodgings and meals for compensation are provided.
   BUILDING. Any structure for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattel or property of any kind, and when separated by party walls
without openings, each portion of the buildings so separated shall be deemed a
separate BUILDING.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average of the highest and
lowest point of that portion of the lot covered by the building to the highest
point of the roof for flat roofs; to the deck line of mansard roofs; or to the
tallest height for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is
directly integrated into the building by replacing typical building materials.
   CELLAR. The portion of the building having more than half of the floor-to-
ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
   COMMUNITY SOLAR GARDEN. A solar-electric array that provides retail electric
power (or a financial proxy for retail power) to multiple community members or
businesses residing or located off-site from the location of the solar energy
system, as defined by M.S. § 216B.1641, as it may be amended from time to time,
or successor statute.
   CORNER LOT. A lot situated at the junction of and fronting on two or more
streets.
   CURB LEVEL. The level of the established curb in front of the building
measured at the center of the front. Where no CURB LEVEL has been established,
the City Engineer shall establish the CURB LEVEL or its equivalent for the
purpose of this chapter.
   DEPTH OF LOT. The mean horizontal distance between the mean front street and
the mean rear lot line. The greater frontage of a corner lot is its depth, and
its lesser frontage is its width.
   DEPTH OF REAR YARD. The mean horizontal distance between rear line of the
building and the centerline of an alley, where an alley exists, otherwise a
rear lot line. The building does include any open decks, patios or steps onto
the main building.
   DISTRICT. A section of the city for which the regulations governing the
height, area, use of buildings and premises are the same.
   DWELLING. Any building or part thereof which is designed or used exclusively
for residential purposes by one or more human beings either permanently or
transiently; a mobile home or house trailer shall be considered a dwelling. A
building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for residential
occupancy, including one-family, two-family and multi-family dwelling units,
and apartment buildings, but not including units used for occupancy in hotels
or motels. May also be called a RESIDENCE or RESIDENTIAL BUILDING.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied by more than
two families. DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY is residential building used for occupancy
by three or more families living independently of each other and containing
three or more dwelling units, but not including group, row, townhouses or
dormitories.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by one
family.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY, ATTACHED (GROUP, ROW OR TOWNHOUSE). One of two or more
residential dwellings joined to other dwellings by a common wall without
openings and with individual entrances to each dwelling from the exterior. Each
dwelling unit shall have principal access onto the ground floor and shall be
occupied by not more than one family.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY, DETACHED. A residential building containing not more
than one dwelling unit and entirely surrounded by open space and yards located
on the same lot.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied by two families.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY is a residential building containing not more than two
dwelling units, but not including group, row or townhouses. May also be
referred to as a DUPLEX.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms physically arranged so as to create an
independent housekeeping unit for occupancy by one family. A DWELLING UNIT
contains separate toilet, cooking and sleeping accommodations. DWELLING UNITS
may be rented or owner-occupied. May also be called a RESIDENCE or ROOMING
HOUSE DWELLING UNIT.
   FAMILY. Any number of individuals related either by marriage, blood,
adoption or another legal unit as defined either by state or federal law.
   FARMING. The cultivation of the soil and all activities incident thereto.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building measured from the exterior walls including basements and attached
accessory buildings.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A garage with a capacity of not more than four automobiles
for storage only, which is erected as an accessory building.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any premises except those described as a private or
community garage, used for the storage or care of power-driven vehicles, or
where any such vehicles are equipped for operation, repair or kept for
remuneration, hire or sale.
   GLARE. The brightness of a light source, or reflected light, that causes eye
discomfort, impairs visibility or creates a potentially hazardous situation for
either pedestrians or motorists.
   GROUND-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is installed
onto the ground directly or by means of brackets or poles.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation of a service character which is clearly
secondary to the main use of the premises as a dwelling and does not change the
character thereof.
   HOTEL. Any building or portion thereof where lodging is offered to transient
guests for compensation and in which there are more than five sleeping rooms
with limited cooking facilities in an individual room or apartment.
   JUNK YARD. Land or buildings where waste, discarded or salvaged materials
are brought, sold, exchanged, stored, cleaned, packed, disassembled or handled,
including, but not limited to, scrap metal, rags, paper, rubber products, glass
products, lumber products and products from wrecking of automobiles, other
vehicles accessory to any business or industrial use on the same lot.
   LODGING HOUSE. A building or premises where lodging is provided for
compensation for three or more persons, but not exceeding 25 persons.
   LOT. One unit of a recorded plat or subdivision occupied or to be occupied
by a building and its accessory buildings and including as a minimum such open
spaces as are required under this chapter and having frontage on a public
street.
   LOT AREA. The lot area is the land area within the lot lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. An interior lot having frontage on two streets.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot as defined herein. When a LOT LINE abuts
a street, avenue, park or other public property except an alley, the line shall
be known as a STREET LINE, and when a LOT LINE abuts an alley, it shall be
known as an ALLEY LINE.
   LOT WIDTH. The width of a lot is the width measured at the building setback
line.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle required to have a certificate of title, but is
used as a residence will be defined as a MOBILE OR MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings used primarily for the temporary
residence of motorists or travelers.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use lawfully in existence at the effective date of this
chapter and not conforming to the regulations for the district in which it is
situated.
   ORNAMENTAL WIND DEVICES. Any device that rotates in a wind current,
resulting in a pleasing effect for the viewer of the device that does not
convert wind to energy.
   PERSONS. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association or body politic; includes any trustee,
receiver, assignee or other similar representative thereof.
   PLOT. A tract other than one unit of a recorded plat or subdivision and
occupied and used or intended to be occupied and used by a building and its
accessory buildings and having a frontage upon a public street or upon a
thoroughfare or upon a highway or upon a traveled or used road and including as
a minimum such open spaces as required under this chapter.
   ROOF-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system mounted to a house
or other building.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a building and the street
line.
   SIGN. A name, identification, description, display, illustration or device
which is affixed to or represented directly upon a building, structure or land
in view of the general public, and which directs attention to a product, place,
activity, person, institution or business.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign, which directs attention to a business or profession
or to a commodity, service or entertainment, sold or offered upon the premises
where such a sign is located.
   SIGN, FLASHING. Any illuminated sign on which the illumination is not kept
stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times when the sign in
use.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs
or outlines illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes as apart of the
sign.
   SIGN, NAME PLATE. Any sign which states the name or address or both of the
business or occupant of the lot where the sign is placed.
   SIGN, PYLON. A free-standing sign erected upon a single pylon or post, which
is in excess of ten feet in height with a sign mounted on top thereof.
   SIGN, ROTATING. A sign which revolves or rotates on its axis by mechanical
means.
   SIGN, SURFACE AREA OF. The entire area within a single, continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of the actual sign surface. It does not include
any structural elements outside the limits of the sign and not forming an
integral part of the display. Only one side of a double-face or V-type sign
structure shall be used in computing total surface area.
   SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion system which
has a name plate rated capacity of no greater than 40 kilowatts and is
primarily intended to produce power for on-site consumption, as a supplement to
utility power or in lieu of utility power.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A set of devices whose primary purpose is to provide
for the collection, storage and distribution of solar energy for space heating
or cooling, electricity generation or water heating.
   SOLAR FARM.  A commercial facility that converts sunlight into electricity
for the principal purpose of wholesale sales of generated electricity.
   SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEM. A system that includes a solar collector and a heat
exchanger that heats or preheats water for building heating systems or other
hot water needs of the building.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having a location on the
ground.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   STREET. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place or
however otherwise designated.
   USE. The purpose, for which land or premises or a building thereon is
designated, arranged or intended or for which it is or may be occupied or
maintained.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use incidental or accessory to the principal use of a lot
or a building and located on the same lot as the principal use.
   VARIANCE. A modification or variation of the provisions of this chapter as
applied to a specific piece of property, except that modification in the
allowable uses within a district shall not be considered a VARIANCE.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM. Any device, such as a wind charger or wind
turbine, which converts wind to a form of usable electric energy.
   YARD. Any space in the same lot with a building open and unobstructed from
the ground to the sky.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of the lot between the inner
side yard lines and lying between the front line of the lot and the nearest
line of the building.
   YARD, REAR. An open space unoccupied except for accessory buildings on the
same lot with a building between the rear lines of the building and the rear
line of the lot, for the full width of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building
between the building and the side line of the lot, and extending from the front
lot line to the rear of the back yard.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008; Ord. 296, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 156.06 ADMINISTRATION, BUILDING PERMIT, CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Building Inspector. The office of the Building Inspector, along with
the Zoning Administrator is hereby established for which the City Council may
appoint the employee or employees of the city as it may deem proper. It shall
be the duty of the Building Inspector and Zoning Administrator to enforce this
chapter through the proper legal channels.
   (B)   Compliance with regulations.
      (1)   Hereafter, no person shall erect, alter, wreck or move any building
or part thereof without first securing a building permit therefore.
      (2)   No building permit shall be required for an alteration costing an
amount as set by the City Council from time to time if no structural alteration
of the building is involved.
      (3)   A building permit shall be obtained before any construction or
alteration takes place.
      (4)   For persons beginning and/or completing construction or alteration
before a building permit has been obtained, the activity shall be treated as a
violation of this chapter as stated in §
156.09.
   (C)   Building permits.
      (1)   Application for a building permit shall be made to the Building
Inspector on blank forms to be furnished by the city. Each application for a
permit to construct or alter a building shall be accompanied by a plan drawn to
scale showing the dimensions of the lot to be built upon and the size and
location of the building and use and accessory buildings and uses to be erected
or constructed. Applications for any kind of building permit shall contain
other information as may be deemed necessary for the proper enforcement of this
chapter or any other. The fee for a building permit shall be determined by the
City Council. The Building Inspector shall issue the building permit only after
determining that the building plans, together with the application, comply with
the terms of this chapter.
      (2)   Building permits approved and/or issued shall expire 12 months from
the approval date on the permit if construction has not begun or has not been
completed.
   (D)   Certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   Application. Certificate of occupancy shall be obtained before:
         (a)   Any vacant land is hereafter occupied or used, except for
agricultural purposes;
         (b)   Any commercial or industrial building hereafter erected or
structurally altered is occupied or used; and
         (c)   The commercial or industrial use of any building or land is
altered.
      (2)   Procedure.
         (a)   Application for a certificate of occupancy shall be made to the
Building Inspector as part of the application for a building permit as required
in division (C) above before any building or land shall be used or occupied.
This certificate shall be issued within ten days after a written request for
the same has been made to the Building Inspector, after the erection or
alteration of the building or part thereof has been completed in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter. Pending the issuance of such a
certificate, the Building Inspector may issue a temporary certificate of
occupancy for a period of not exceeding six months during the completion of the
erection or alteration of the building. The temporary certificate shall not be
construed as in any way altering the respective rights, duties or obligations
of the owners or of the city relating to the use or occupancy of the premises
or any other matter except under restrictions and provisions as will adequately
ensure the safety of the occupants.
         (b)   Every certificate of occupancy shall state that the building or
proposed use of a building or land complies with all provisions of law and of
this chapter. A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file
in the office of the Building Inspector and copies shall be furnished on
request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building
or land affected. No fee shall be charged for a certificate of occupancy.
         (c)   No building permit for the erection or alteration of a building
shall be issued before application has been made for a certificate of
occupancy.
         (d)   A certificate of occupancy shall be issued for all lawful
nonconforming uses of land or buildings created by adoption of this chapter, or
in existence at the effective date of this chapter. Application for the
certificate of occupancy for a nonconforming use shall be filed with the
Building Inspector by the owner or lessee of the building or land occupied by
the nonconforming use within one year of the effective date of this chapter. It
shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to issue a certificate of occupancy
for a lawful nonconforming use. Failure to apply for the certificate of
occupancy for a nonconforming use, or refusal of the Building Inspector to
issue a certificate of occupancy for the nonconforming use shall be a prima
facie evidence that the nonconforming use was either illegal or did not
lawfully exist at the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.07 BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Creation and membership. A Board of Zoning Adjustment is hereby
established and vested with the administrative authority as is hereinafter
provided. The Board shall consist of all members of the City Planning
Commission; the City Attorney, and the Zoning Administrator shall serve as ex
officio members without the right to vote on matters before the Board. The
Zoning Administrator shall act as Secretary of the Board. The Board members
shall be appointed by the Mayor and City Council. The Board shall serve without
compensation. Its members shall be appointed for terms coinciding with their
terms on the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Powers. The Board of Zoning Adjustment, subject to the approval and
confirmation of the City Council in each case as hereinafter provided, shall
have power to grant a variance adjustment in and exception to any of the
provisions of this chapter to the extent of the following and no further:
      (1)   To vary or modify the strict application of the regulations or
provisions contained in this chapter in cases in which there are practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of the strict application. No
variance or modification of the uses permitted within a district shall be
allowed; and
      (2)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line
thereof divides a lot in one ownership at the time of the passage of this
chapter, but the extension of any district shall not exceed 50 feet.
   (C)   Findings. The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall not recommend the
granting of any variance or modification and the City Council shall not grant
any variance or modification unless they find the following facts: the Board of
Zoning Adjustment and the City Council shall have to find that there are
special circumstances or conditions affecting the land to require the
adjustment that is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of substantial
property rights and that the application will not adversely affect the health
or safety of persons residing or working in the area and will not be
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to the property or improvements
in the area adjacent to the property of the applicant. If the Board of Zoning
Adjustment and the City Council found that any application did not meet all
three of these considerations, it would have no choice but to deny that motion.
   (D)   Appeals. Any person, firm or corporation objecting to the ruling of
any official on the administering of the provisions of this chapter shall have
the right to appeal to the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
   (E)   Procedure. Application for any adjustment permissible under the
provisions of this section shall be made to the Zoning Administrator, in the
form of a written application for a building permit or for a permit to use the
property or premises as set forth in the application. An application for an
adjustment shall be accompanied by payment of a fee in an amount as established
by the City Council in addition to the regular building permit fee, it any.
Upon receipt of any application, the officer shall set a time and place for a
public hearing before the Board of Zoning Adjustment on the application. As
least ten days before the date of the hearing, a notice of the hearing shall be
published once in the official newspaper.
      (1)   After a public hearing has been held, the Board of Zoning
Adjustment shall thereupon make its decision upon the application. If the
application is denied, no further action shall be taken upon it; if the
application is granted, the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall report its
recommendations to the City Council within 15 days of the hearing at which the
application was considered.
      (2)   In recommending any adjustment or variance under the provisions of
this section, the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall designate such conditions in
connection therewith as will, in its opinion, secure substantially the
objectives of the regulation or provision to which the adjustment or variance
is granted, as to light, air and the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience and general welfare.
      (3)   No permit shall be issued under the provisions of this section
unless and until a decision of the Board of Zoning Adjustment, as aforesaid,
approving the same, is approved and confirmed by the City Council. In reporting
its decision to the City Council, the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall report
its findings with respect thereto and all facts in connection therewith, and
shall specifically and fully set forth any adjustment or variance granted and
the conditions designated. Upon receipt of the report, the City Council either
shall by resolution approve and confirm the decision, with or without changes,
whereupon the permit as applied for may be issued, or shall refuse to approve
and confirm the decision. In all cases in which adjustments or variances are
granted under the provisions of this section, the Board of Zoning Adjustment
and the City Council shall require evidence and guarantees as it may deem
necessary to insure compliance with the conditions designated in connection
therewith.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.08 AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Authority to amend. The City Council may amend, supplement or change
the regulations, restrictions and boundaries in this chapter after the public
hearing and other procedures are followed as set forth in this section.
   (B)   Initiation of amendments. Amendments to this chapter may be proposed
by the City Council, or duly signed petitions may be presented to the City
Administrator, requesting an amendment by the following:
      (1)   The City Planning Commission; and
      (2)   By one or more of the owner’s lessees, or occupants within the area
proposed to be changed by the amendment.
   (C)   Informational requirements. All applications for changes in the
boundaries of any zoning district which are initiated by the petition of the
owner or owners or property, the zoning of which is proposed to be changed,
shall be accompanied by a map or plat showing the lands proposed to be changed,
proposed buildings and uses, and all lands within 200 feet of the boundaries of
the property proposed to be rezoned, together with the names and addresses of
the owners of the lands in such area as the same appear on the tax records of
the county.
   (D)   Referral to the Planning Commission. Any proposal for the amendment of
this zoning ordinance not originating from petition of the Planning Commission
shall be referred to the Planning Commission for consideration and report
before any final action is taken by City Council.
   (E)   Action by the Planning Commission. Before any amendment is adopted,
the Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing thereon after a
notice of the hearing has been published in the official newspaper at least ten
days before the hearing. Following the hearing, the Planning Commission shall
make a report of its findings and recommendations on the proposed amendment and
shall file a copy with the City Council within 60 days after the hearing. If no
recommendation is transmitted by the Planning Commission within 60 days after
the hearing, the City Council may take action without awaiting the
recommendation.
   (F)   Hearing and notice. A notice of the time, place and purpose of the
hearing shall be published in the official newspaper of the municipality at
least ten days prior to the day of the hearing. When an amendment involves
changes in district boundaries affecting an area of five acres or less, a
similar notice shall be mailed at least ten days before the day of the hearing
to each owner of affected property and property situated wholly or partly
within 350 feet of the property to which the amendment relates. For the purpose
of giving mailed notice, the persons responsible for mailing the notice may use
any appropriate records to determine the names and addresses of owners. A copy
of the notice and a list of the owners and addresses to which the notice was
sent shall be attested to by the responsible person all shall be made a part of
the records of the proceedings. The failure to give mailed notice to individual
property owners, or defects in the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings,
provided a bona fide attempt to comply with this division (F) has been made.
   (G)   Action by the City Council. Upon receiving the report of the Planning
Commission, the City Council may hold such public hearings, as it deems
advisable. After the conclusion of the hearings, if any, the City Council may
adopt the amendment or any part thereof in such form as it deems advisable. The
amendment shall be effective only is a majority of all the members of the City
Council concur in its passage.
   (H)   Zoning upon annexation. The following procedures shall apply for
establishing zoning in areas annexed to the city.
      (1)   Interim zoning. Upon annexation, and until permanent zoning is
adopted as provided below, each parcel of annexed land shall be automatically
zoned to the R-1 Agriculture District.
      (2)   Permanent zoning. Within a reasonable time after annexation,
permanent zoning shall be established for all annexed areas, according to the
procedures set forth above in this section concerning Planning Commission
review and recommendation, and hearing and final action by Council.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.09 VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Penalties for violations.
      (1)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor.
      (2)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises or part
thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who
commits, participates in, assists in or maintains the violation may each be
found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
      (3)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking other
lawful action, such as an injunction or other civil relief, as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
      (4)   Persons or contractors initiating any construction before a
building permit is approved shall be charged twice the actual building permit
fee.
   (B)   Enforcement. In case any building or structure is erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any
building, structure or land is used in violation of this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator the Building Inspector and any police officer of the city, in
addition to other remedies, may institute any proper action or proceedings in
the name of the city and hereby shall have the powers of a police officer to
prevent the occupancy of the building, structure or land or to prevent any
illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about the premises.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
CLASSIFICATION OF DISTRICTS
§ 156.20 DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the city is hereby divided into zoning
districts which shall be designated as follows:
   (A)   R-1 Agriculture Residence District;
   (B)   R-2 Single-Family Residence District;
   (C)   R-3 Multiple-Family Residence District;
   (D)   B-1 Limited Business District;
   (E)   B-2 General Business District;
   (F)   I-1 General Industry District; and
   (G)   I-2 Limited Industry District.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.21 ZONING MAP.
   The location and boundaries of the districts established by this chapter are
hereby set forth on the zoning map, and the map is hereby made a part of this
chapter; the map shall be known as the “Lake Crystal Zoning Map”. The map and
all notations, references and data shown thereon are hereby incorporated by
reference into this chapter and shall be as much apart of it as if all were
fully described herein. It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning
Administrator to maintain the map and amendments thereto shall be recorded on
the zoning map within 30 days after official publication of amendments. The
official zoning map shall be kept on file in the City Hall.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008; Ord. 2017-01, passed 5-1-2017)
§ 156.22 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries between districts are, unless otherwise indicated, either the
centerlines of streets, alleys or railroad rights-of-way, or such lines
extended or lines parallel or perpendicular thereto. Boundaries between
districts are, unless otherwise indicated, platted lot or plot lines. Where
figures are shown on the zoning map between a street and a district boundary
line, they indicate that the district boundary line runs parallel to the street
line at a distance therefrom equivalent to the number of feet so indicated,
unless otherwise indicated.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.23 FUTURE ANNEXATION.
   Any land annexed to the city in the future shall be placed in the R-
1 Agriculture Residence District, until placed in another district by action of
the City Council after recommendation of the City Planning Commission.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
ZONING DISTRICTS; REGULATIONS
§ 156.35 R-1 AGRICULTURE RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-1 Agriculture Residence District is intended to
establish a district that is best suited from the transition from rural
agricultural uses to urban uses. This district is designed for the protection
of both urban and rural uses by controlling excessive and wasteful scattering
of population and by holding land for eventual urban development until a time
as adequate municipal facilities are available.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the R-
1 Agriculture Residence District:
      (1)   Any one-family detached dwelling; any one-family attached dwelling
(group, row or townhouse); any two-family dwelling;
      (2)   Any park or recreational area owned or operated by a governmental
agency;
      (3)   Any public or private elementary or secondary school, or any day
care center;
      (4)   Any church provided that no building shall be located within 25
feet of any lot line abutting a lot of the other classes of residence
districts;
      (5)   Any agricultural, farming operation or truck gardening; and
      (6)   Any home occupation as regulated in §§
156.55 through
156.61.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the R-
1 Agriculture Residence District subject to obtaining a conditional use permit
in accordance with the provisions of §
156.64:
      (1)   Any municipal administration building, police or fire station,
community center building, public library, museum, art gallery, post office and
other municipal service building; except those customarily considered
industrial in use and provided that no building shall be located within 25 feet
of any line abutting a lot in any of the other classes of residence districts;
      (2)   Any water supply building, reservoir, well, elevated tank or
similar essential public utility or service structure;
      (3)   Any golf course, golf clubhouse, country club, public swimming
pool, private swimming pool serving more than one family, provided that no
principal structure shall be located within 25 feet of any lot line of an
abutting lot in any of the other classes of residence districts;
      (4)   Any railroad rights-of-way, but not including any railroad yard or
shop;
      (5)   Nurseries and greenhouses for growing plants only;
      (6)   Cemetery, memorial garden; and
      (7)   Any multi-family dwelling.
   (D)   Permitted accessory uses. The following uses shall be permitted
accessory uses in the R-1 Agriculture Residence District:
      (1)   Any private garage;
      (2)   Any private swimming pool when completely enclosed within a chain
link or similar fence five feet high;
      (3)   Any keeping of not more than two boarders or roomers by a resident
family;
      (4)   Any living quarters of persons employed on the premises;
      (5)   Any fallout shelters; and
      (6)   Any other accessory uses customarily incident to the uses permitted
in divisions (B) and (C) above.
   (E)   Height, yard, area and lot width and depth regulations. Every lot in
an R-1 Agriculture Residence District on which any permitted or conditionally
permitted use is erected shall meet the following minimum standards.
      (1)   Height regulations. No building hereafter erected or altered shall
exceed 30 feet in height.
      (2)   Front yard regulations.
         (a)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet unless 25% or more of the frontage on the same side of the street between
two intersecting streets is improved with buildings that have observed greater
or less depth of front yard in which instance no new building or portion
thereof shall project beyond a straight line drawn between the point closest to
that street line of the two nearest residences.
         (b)   There shall be a front yard of not less than 35 feet on a lot or
plat that abuts a thoroughfare as shown on the adopted City Thoroughfares Plan.
         (c)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more
streets there shall be a front yard on each street side of each corner lot. No
accessory buildings shall project beyond the front yard of either street.
      (3)   Side yard regulations. There shall be a side yard, on each side of
a building, each having a width of not less than 15 feet.
      (4)   Rear yard regulations. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of
not less than 25 feet.
      (5)   Lot area, width and depth regulations.
         (a)   Every lot on which a one-family detached dwelling is erected
shall contain an area of not less than 22,000 square feet, and shall have a
minimum width of not less than 100 feet at the building setback line, and a
minimum depth of not less than 150 feet.
         (b)   Every lot on which a one-family attached, two-family or multi-
family dwelling is erected shall contain an area of not less than 22,000 square
feet for the first dwelling unit plus 2,000 square feet for each additional
dwelling unit and shall have a minimum width of not less than 100 feet at the
building setback line, and a minimum depth of not less than 150 feet.
   (F)   General regulations. Additional regulations in the R-1 Agriculture
Residence District are set forth in §§
156.55 through
156.61.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.36 R-2 RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-2 Residence District is intended to establish a
district which will define and protect areas suitable for low to medium density
residential development as the principal use of the land and to allow related
facilities desirable for a residential environment. Single-family dwellings are
the primary residential use; however, other residential dwelling types may be
permitted when the provisions of this chapter are met.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the R-
2 Residence District:
      (1)   Any one-family detached dwelling; any one-family attached dwelling
(group, row or townhouse); any two-family dwelling;
      (2)   Any park or recreational area owned or operated by a governmental
agency;
      (3)   Any public or private elementary or secondary school, or any day
care center;
      (4)   Any church provided that no building shall be located within 25
feet of any lot line abutting a lot of the other classes of residence
districts; and
      (5)   Any home occupation as regulated in §§
156.55 through
156.61.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the R-
2 Residence District subject to obtaining a conditional use permit in
accordance with the provisions of §
156.64:
      (1)   Any municipal administration building, police or fire station,
community center building, public library, museum, art gallery, post office and
other municipal service building; except those customarily considered
industrial in use and provided that no building shall be located within 25 feet
of any line abutting a lot in any of the other classes of residence districts;
      (2)   Any water supply building, reservoir, well, elevated tank or
similar essential public utility or service structure;
      (3)   Any golf course, golf clubhouse, country club, public swimming
pool, private swimming pool serving more than one family, provided that no
principal structure shall be located within 25 feet of any lot line of an
abutting lot in any of the other classes of residence districts;
      (4)   Any railroad rights-of-way, but not including any railroad yard or
shop;
      (5)   Any agricultural, farming operation or truck gardening;
      (6)   Any nurseries and greenhouses for growing plants only;
      (7)   Any cemetery, memorial garden; and
      (8)   Any multi-family dwelling.
   (D)   Permitted accessory uses. The following uses shall be permitted
accessory uses in the R-2 Residence District:
      (1)   Any private garage;
      (2)   Any private swimming pool when completely enclosed within a chain
link or similar fence five feet high;
      (3)   Any keeping of not more than two boarders or roomers by a resident
family;
      (4)   Any living quarters of persons employed on the premises;
      (5)   Any fallout shelters; and
      (6)   Any other accessory uses customarily incident to the uses permitted
in divisions (B) and (C) above.
   (E)   Height, yard, area and lot width and depth regulations. Every lot in a
R-2 Residence District on which any permitted or conditionally permitted use is
erected shall meet the following minimum standards.
      (1)   Height regulations. No building hereafter erected or altered shall
exceed 30 feet in height.
      (2)   Front yard regulations.
         (a)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet unless 25% or more of the frontage on the same side of the street between
two intersecting streets is improved with buildings that have observed greater
or less depth of front yard in which instance no new building or portion
thereof shall project beyond a straight line drawn between the point closest to
that street line of the two nearest residences.
         (b)   There shall be a front yard of not less than 35 feet on a lot or
plat that abuts a thoroughfare as shown on the adopted City Thoroughfares Plan.
         (c)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more
streets there shall be a front yard on each street side of each corner lot. No
accessory buildings shall project beyond the front yard of either street.
      (3)   Side yard regulations.
         (a)   There shall be a side yard on each side of a building, each
having a width of not less than five feet for buildings not exceeding 20 feet
in height.
         (b)   For buildings exceeding 20 feet in height, there shall be a side
yard on each side of a building having a width of five feet plus one foot of
side yard for each one foot of building over 20 feet.
         (c)   There shall be an additional five-foot setback requirement along
existing utility lines or utility easements.
      (4)   Rear yard regulations. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of
not less than 25 feet; however, a building will not be allowed in an area of
the lot which is behind a straight line drawn between the rear buildings of the
two nearest residences.
      (5)   Lot area, width and depth regulations.
         (a)   Every lot upon which a one-family detached dwelling is erected
shall contain an area of not less than 7,200 square feet.
         (b)   Every lot upon which a one-family attached, two-family or multi-
family dwelling is erected or altered shall contain an area of not less than
12,000 square feet for the first two dwelling units, plus 2,000 square feet for
each additional dwelling unit.
         (c)   Every lot on which a one-family detached dwelling is erected
shall have a minimum width of not less than 60 feet at the building setback
line, and a minimum depth of not less than 120 feet. For existing lots which
are less than 60 feet wide and less than 120 feet deep the aforementioned
setbacks shall be enforced.
         (d)   Every lot on which a one-family attached, two-family or multi-
family dwelling is erected shall have a minimum width of not less than 80 feet
at the building setback line, and a minimum depth of not less than 150 feet.
   (F)   General regulations. Additional regulations in the R-2 Residence
District are set forth in §§
156.55 through
156.61.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.37 R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-3 Multiple-Family Residence District is intended to
establish a district which will define and protect areas suitable for medium to
maximum density residential development as the principal use of the land and to
allow related facilities desirable for a multiple family residential
development. Multiple-family dwellings are the primary residential use,
however, other residential dwelling types may be permitted when the provisions
of this chapter are met.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the R-
3 Residence District:
      (1)   Any multiple family dwelling; any multi-family dwelling; any one-
family attached dwelling (group, row or townhouse); any two-family dwelling;
      (2)   Any park or recreational area owned or operated by a governmental
agency;
      (3)   Any public or private elementary or secondary school, or any day
care center;
      (4)   Any church provided that no building shall be located within 25
feet of any lot line abutting a lot of the other classes of residence
districts; and
      (5)   Any home occupation as regulated in §§
156.55 through
156.61.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the R-
3 Residence District subject to obtaining a conditional use permit in
accordance with the provisions of §
156.64:
      (1)   Any municipal administration building, police or fire station,
community center building, public library, museum, art gallery, post office and
other municipal service building; except those customarily considered
industrial in use and provided that no building shall be located within 25 feet
of any line abutting a lot in any of the other classes of residence districts;
      (2)   Any water supply building, reservoir, well, elevated tank or
similar essential public utility or service structure;
      (3)   Any golf course, golf clubhouse, country club, public swimming
pool, private swimming pool serving more than one family, provided that no
principal structure shall be located within 25 feet of any lot line of an
abutting lot in any of the other classes of residence districts;
      (4)   Any railroad rights-of-way, but not including any railroad yard or
shop;
      (5)   Any agricultural, farming operation or truck gardening;
      (6)   Any nurseries and greenhouses for growing plants only;
      (7)   Any cemetery, memorial garden; and
      (8)   Any one-family detached dwelling.
   (D)   Permitted accessory uses. The following uses shall be permitted
accessory uses in the R-3 Residence District:
      (1)   Any private garage;
      (2)   Any private swimming pool when completely enclosed within a chain
link or similar fence five feet high;
      (3)   Any keeping of not more than two boarders or roomers by a resident
family;
      (4)   Any living quarters of persons employed on the premises;
      (5)   Any fallout shelters; and
      (6)   Any other accessory uses customarily incident to the uses permitted
in divisions (B) and (C) above.
   (E)   Height, yard, area and lot width and depth regulations. Every lot in a
R-3 Residence District on which any permitted or conditionally permitted use is
erected shall meet the following minimum standards.
      (1)   Height regulations. No building hereafter erected or altered shall
exceed 40 feet in height.
      (2)   Front yard regulations.
         (a)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet unless 25% or more of the frontage on the same side of the street between
two intersecting streets is improved with buildings that have observed greater
or less depth of front yard in which instance no new building or portion
thereof shall project beyond a straight line drawn between the point closest to
that street line of the two nearest residences.
         (b)   There shall be a front yard of not less than 35 feet on a lot or
plat that abuts a thoroughfare as shown on the adopted City Thoroughfares Plan.
         (c)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more
streets there shall be a front yard on each street side of each corner lot. No
accessory buildings shall project beyond the front yard of either street.
      (3)   Side yard regulations.
         (a)   There shall be a side yard on each side of a building, each
having a width of not less than five feet for buildings not exceeding 20 feet
in height.
         (b)   For buildings exceeding 20 feet in height, there shall be aside
yard on each side of a building having a width of five feet, plus one foot of
side yard for each one foot of building over 20 feet.
      (4)   Rear yard regulations. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of
not less than 25 feet; however, a building will not be allowed in an area of
the lot which is behind a straight line drawn between the rear buildings of the
two nearest multiple-family dwellings or other residential buildings.
      (5)   Lot area, width and depth regulations.
         (a)   Every lot upon which a one-family attached, two-family or multi-
family dwelling is erected or altered shall contain an area of not less than
12,000 square feet for the first two dwelling units plus 2,000 square feet for
each additional dwelling unit.
         (b)   Every lot on which a two-family or multi-family dwelling is
erected shall have a minimum width of not less than 80 feet at the building
setback line, and a minimum depth of not less than 150 feet.
   (F)   General regulations. Additional regulations in the R-3 Residence
District are set forth in §§
156.55 through
156.61.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.38 B-1 LIMITED BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The B-1 Limited Business District is intended to encourage
the concentration of a broad range of commercial establishments, including
drive-in businesses, establishments requiring outdoor storage and display
areas, and businesses operating with late hours. It is important that
businesses in this district provide adequate off-street parking with safe
ingress and egress to the adjoining streets. Equally important are the
provisions of adequate safeguards between business establishments and
residential uses when the two are adjoining.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the B-
1 Limited Business District:
      (1)   Retail stores primarily engaged in selling merchandise for personal
or household consumption and rendering services incidental to the sale of that
merchandise:
         (a)   Any grocery store, meat market, supermarket, fruit market,
bakery or other store selling food or beverages;
         (b)   Any drug store, apparel shop or store, hardware store,
bookstore, stationery store, flower shop or home furnishings store; and
         (c)   Any automotive service station.
      (2)   Personal services generally involving the care of the person or his
or her personal effects:
         (a)   Any cleaning or laundry establishment, self-service laundry
including any pressing, cleaning or garment repair;
         (b)   Any dressmaking, millinery, tailor shop or shoe repair shop;
         (c)   Any beauty shop or barber shop;
         (d)   Any photographic studio; and
         (e)   Any eating or drinking establishment.
      (3)   Administrative, business or professional offices:
         (a)   Any bank, savings and loan institution or credit union;
         (b)   Any insurance or real estate agent or broker;
         (c)   Any professional office, including any physician, dentist,
chiropractor, engineer, architect, lawyer, financial planner, accountant or
other recognized profession; and
         (d)   Any veterinary clinic where there are no outside runs or
kennels.
      (4)   Entertainment and recreation establishments: any theater, dance
hall, bowling alley, pool or billiard hall, or roller or ice rink, those
businesses not regulated under I-2.
      (5)   Motor vehicle and implement sales and service:
         (a)   Any automobile sales or services, car wash, trailer sales or
service, auto repair garage or automobile rental;
         (b)   Any motor vehicle fuel station;
         (c)   Any agricultural equipment sales or service;
         (d)   Any truck sales or service, truck wash or truck repair garage;
         (e)   Any boat sales or repair; and
         (f)   Any mobile home or travel trailer sales or repair.
      (6)   Repair services:
         (a)   Any electrical repair shops;
         (b)   Any watch, clock or jewelry repair;
         (c)   Any reupholstery and furniture repair;
         (d)   Any miscellaneous repair shop; and
         (e)   Any repair service carried on in conjunction with any permitted
use.
      (7)   Business services: any duplicating, printing, addressing,
blueprinting, photocopying, mailing or stenographic service;
      (8)   Building materials and contractors: any building materials sales or
contractor’s office provided the uses shall be conducted wholly within an
enclosed building;
      (9)   Drive-in establishments:
         (a)   Any drive-in establishment including banks and restaurants;
         (b)   Any motel; and
         (c)   Any shopping center.
      (10)   Miscellaneous uses:
         (a)   Any utility facility necessary for local service;
         (b)   Any church;
         (c)   Any residence when included as an integral part of the principal
building to be occupied by the owner or his or her employee;
         (d)   Any distributors, warehouses and wholesale outlets provided the
uses shall be conducted wholly within a building. No processing or fabrication
shall be permitted in conjunction with those uses; and
         (e)   Any municipal administration building, police or fire station,
community center building, public library, museum, art gallery, post office or
other municipal service building; except those customarily considered
industrial in use.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the B-1 Limited
Business District subject to obtaining a conditional use permit in accordance
with the provisions of §
156.64:
      (1)   Any water supply building, reservoir, well, elevated tank or
similar essential public utility or service structure;
      (2)   Any railroad rights-of-way, but not including any railroad yard or
shop; and
      (3)   Any radio or television transmitting or receiving apparatus.
   (D)   Permitted accessory uses. The following shall be permitted accessory
uses in the B-1 Limited Business District: any accessory use customarily
incident to the uses permitted in divisions (B) and (C) above.
   (E)   Height, yard, area and lot width and depth regulations. Every lot in
the B-1 Limited Business District on which any permitted or conditionally
permitted use is erected shall meet the following minimum standards.
      (1)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered to exceed 30 feet in height.
      (2)   Front yard regulations.
         (a)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet on a lot or plot that abuts a minor street or a marginal access service
street.
         (b)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of 35 feet on a lot
or plot that abuts a thoroughfare as shown on the adopted City Thoroughfares
Plan.
         (c)   There shall be a front yard on each street side of a corner lot.
No accessory buildings shall project beyond the front yard line on either
street.
      (3)   Side yard regulations.
         (a)   There shall be a side yard, on each side of a building, having a
width of not less than ten feet.
         (b)   No building shall be located within 20 feet of any side lot line
abutting a lot in any of the classes residence districts.
      (4)   Rear yard regulations.
         (a)   There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than 20
feet.
         (b)   No building shall be located within 25 feet of any rear lot line
abutting a lot in any of the classes residence districts.
      (5)   Lot area, width and depth regulations. No minimum lot area width or
depth shall be required, however, the lot size shall be adequate to meet the
setback, yard and other requirements of this chapter.
      (6)   Lot coverage regulations. Not more than 50% of the lot area shall
be occupied by buildings.
   (F)   General regulations. Additional regulations in the B-1 Limited
Business District are set forth in §§
156.55 through
156.61.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.39 B-2 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The B-2 Central Business District comprises the downtown
section of the city, which is called the Central Business District. The use of
land is intensive, and this is one of the main determinants of the vitality of
the Central Business District. It is the purpose of these regulations to
encourage the intensity of use and to exclude activities, which have a negative
effect upon the proper functioning of the Central Business District.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the B-
2 Central Business District:
      (1)   Retail stores primarily engaged in selling new or used merchandise
for personal or household consumption and rendering services incidental to the
sale of the merchandise, including:
         (a)   Any grocery store, meat market, supermarket, fruit market and
bakery, or other store selling food or beverages;
         (b)   Any drug store, apparel shop or store, hardware store,
bookstore, stationary store, flower shop or home furnishings store; and
         (c)   Any automotive service station.
      (2)   Personal services generally involving the care of the person or his
or her personal effects:
         (a)   Any cleaning or laundry establishment, self-service laundry
including any pressing, cleaning or garment repair;
         (b)   Any dressmaking, millinery, tailor shop or shoe repair shop;
         (c)   Any beauty shop or barber shop;
         (d)   Any photographic studio; and
         (e)   Any eating or drinking establishment.
      (3)   Administrative, business or professional offices:
         (a)   Any bank, savings and loan institution or credit union;
         (b)   Any insurance or real estate agent or broker;
         (c)   Any municipal or government building;
         (d)   Any professional office including any physician, dentist,
chiropractor, engineer, architect, lawyer, financial planner, accountant or
other recognized profession; and
         (e)   Any veterinary clinic where there are no runs or kennels.
      (4)   Entertainment and recreation establishment: any theater, dance
hall, bowling alley or pool or billiard hall, those businesses not regulated
under I-2;
      (5)   Repair services:
         (a)   Any electrical repair shops;
         (b)   Any watch, clock or jewelry repair;
         (c)   Any reupholstery and furniture repair;
         (d)   Any miscellaneous repair shops; and
         (e)   Any repair service carried on in conjunction with any permitted
use.
      (6)   Business services: any duplicating, printing, addressing,
blueprinting, photocopying, mailing or stenographic shops; and
      (7)   Miscellaneous uses:
         (a)   Any utility facility necessary for local service;
         (b)   Any multi-family dwelling structure;
         (c)   Any residence provided that the residence shall be located above
the ground floor;
         (d)   Any motel or hotel;
         (e)   Any parking facilities; need not be enclosed; and
         (f)   Any water supply building, reservoir, well, elevated tank or
similar essential public utility or service structure.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the B-2 Central
Business District subject to obtaining a conditional use permit in accordance
with the provisions of §
156.64:
      (1)   Any railroad rights-of-way, but not including any railroad yard or
shop; and
      (2)   Any radio or television transmitting or receiving apparatus.
   (D)   Permitted accessory uses. The following shall be permitted accessory
uses in the B-2 Central Business District: any accessory use customarily
incident to the uses permitted in divisions (B) and (C) above.
   (E)   Height, yard, area and lot width and depth regulations. Every lot in
the B-2 Central Business District on which any permitted or conditionally
permitted use is erected shall meet the following minimum standards.
      (1)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered to exceed 45 feet in height.
      (2)   Front yard regulations. No front yard shall be required, except as
follows: no building shall be located within 25 feet of any front lot line
located across the street from any of the classes of residence districts.
      (3)   Side yard regulations. No side yard shall be required, except as
follows: no building shall be located within ten feet of any side lot line
abutting a lot in any of the classes of residence districts.
      (4)   Rear yard regulations. No rear yard shall be required, except as
follows: no building shall be located within 25 feet of any rear lot line of
any lot, not abutting on an alley, in any of the classes of residence
districts.
      (5)   Lot area, width and depth regulations. No minimum lot area, width
or depth shall be required, however, the lot size shall be adequate to meet the
setback, yard and other requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   General regulations. Additional regulations in the B-2 Central
Business District are set forth in §§
156.55 through
156.61.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.40 I-1 GENERAL INDUSTRY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The I-1 General Industry District is intended to provide
space to meet the locational requirements of a broad range of industrial uses.
These industrial uses should be encouraged to locate in areas where adequate
utilities are available. Industrial uses should be designed to blend
harmoniously with adjacent land uses, particularly residential uses. For this
reason, industrial uses should have adequate area to provide off-street parking
and loading and screening should be used to provide a visual barrier for
unsightly operational characteristics.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the I-
1 General Industry District:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the B-I Limited Business District, except that
dwellings shall not be a permitted use;
      (2)   Bottling establishment;
      (3)   Building materials sales and storage, lumber yards;
      (4)   Cartage and express facilities;
      (5)   Contractors offices, shops and yards for plumbing, heating,
glazing, painting, paper hanging, roofing, ventilating, air conditioning,
masonry, electrical and refrigeration;
      (6)   Drycleaning establishments, laundries;
      (7)   Electrical and electronic products manufacture;
      (8)   Electrical service shops;
      (9)   Engraving, printing and publishing;
      (10)   Freight terminal;
      (11)   Fuel and ice sales and storage;
      (12)   Garages for storage, repair and servicing of motor vehicles;
      (13)   Highway maintenance shops and yards;
      (14)   Jewelry manufacture;
      (15)   Medical, dental and optical laboratories;
      (16)   Monument works;
      (17)   Municipal administration buildings, police and fire stations,
maintenance buildings, community center buildings and other municipal service
buildings;
      (18)   Printing;
      (19)   Public service structures including power substations, gas
regulator stations, sewage disposal plants, elevated tanks and water works;
      (20)   Railroad rights-of-way, railroad yards;
      (21)   Research, experimental or testing stations;
      (22)   Storage or warehouse, when completely enclosed within a building;
      (23)   Wholesale business and office establishments; and
      (24)   Any water supply building, reservoir, well, elevated tank or
similar essential public utility or service structure.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the I-1 General
Industry District subject to obtaining a conditional use permit in accordance
with the provisions of §
156.64:
      (1)   Any residence when included as an integral part of the principal
building to be occupied by the owner or his or her employee;
      (2)   Any manufacturing, assembling, processing, storage, servicing,
repair and testing of materials, goods or products;
      (3)   Extraction, processing or storage of sand, gravel, stone or other
raw material;
      (4)   Junk yards, wrecking yards or auto salvage yard; and
      (5)   Any radio or television transmitting or receiving apparatus.
   (D)   Permitted accessory uses. The following shall be permitted accessory
uses in the I-1 General Industry District: any accessory use customarily
incident to the uses permitted in divisions (B) and (C) above.
   (E)   Height, yard, area and lot width and depth regulations. Every lot in
the I-1 General Industry District on which any permitted or conditionally
permitted use is erected shall meet the following minimum standards.
      (1)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered to exceed 45 feet in height.
      (2)   Front yard regulations.
         (a)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet on a lot or plot that abuts a minor street or a marginal access service
street.
         (b)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of 35 feet on a lot
or plot that abuts thoroughfare as shown on the adopted City Thoroughfares
Plan.
         (c)   There shall be a front yard on each street side of a corner lot.
No accessory buildings shall project beyond the front yard line on either
street.
      (3)   Side yard regulations. No side yard shall be required, except as
follows: no building shall be located within 20 feet of any side lot line
abutting any of the classes of residence districts.
      (4)   Rear yard regulations. No rear yard shall be required, except as
follows: no building shall be located within 25 feet of any rear lot line
abutting a lot in any of the classes of residence districts.
      (5)   Lot area, width and depth regulations. No minimum lot area, width
or depth shall be required, however, the lot size shall be adequate to meet the
setback, yard and other requirements of this chapter.
      (6)   Lot coverage regulations. Not more than 50% of the lot area shall
be occupied by buildings.
   (F)   General regulations. Additional regulations in the I-1 General
Industry District are set forth in §§
156.55 through
156.61.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.41 I-2 LIMITED INDUSTRY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The I-2 Limited Industry District is intended to provide space to
meet the locational requirements of a broad range of industrial uses. These
industrial uses should be encouraged to locate in areas where adequate
utilities are available.
      (2)   Industrial uses should be designed to blend harmoniously with
adjacent land uses, particularly residential uses. For this reason, industrial
uses should have adequate area to provide off-street parking and loading and
screening should be used to provide a visual barrier for unsightly operational
characteristics.
      (3)   In addition there is a need to establish a zone in the city to
allow the operation of adult use type activities and/or businesses. The nature
of adult uses is such that they are recognized as having adverse secondary
characteristics, particularly when they are accessible to minors and located
near residential property or related residential uses such as schools, day care
centers, libraries or parks. Furthermore, the concentration of adult uses has
an adverse effect upon the use and enjoyment of adjacent areas. The nature of
adult uses requires that they not be allowed within certain zoning districts,
or within minimum distances from each other or residential uses. Special
regulation of adult uses is necessary to ensure that the adverse secondary
effects would not contribute or enhance criminal activity in the area those
uses, nor will it contribute to the blighting or downgrading of the surrounding
property and lessening of its value.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADULT USES. Include adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters,
adult motion picture rental, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage
parlors, adult steam room/bathhouse/sauna facilities, adult companionship
establishments, adult rap/conversation parlors, adult health/sport clubs, adult
cabarets, adult novelty businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult
modeling studios, adult hotels/motels, adult body painting studios, and other
premises, enterprises, establishments, businesses or places open to some or all
members of the public, at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation,
display, depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, which are capable of being seen by members of the public.
      ADULT USES, ACCESSORY. A use, business or establishment having 10% or
less of its stock in trade or floor area allocated to, or more than 20% of its
gross receipts derived from movie rentals or magazine sales.
      ADULT USES, PRINCIPAL. A use, business or establishment having more than
10% of its stock in trade or floor area allocated to, or more than 20% of its
gross receipts derived from, any adult use.
      ADULT USE, BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business which
provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent
or non-transparent, to or on the body of a patron when the body is wholly or
partially nude in terms of specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE, BOOKSTORE. A building or portion of a building used for the
barter, rental or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides,
records, audio tape, videotape or motion picture film if the building or
portion of a building is not open to the public generally but not to one or
more classes of the public excluding any minor by reason of age or if a
substantial or significant portion of such items are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE, CABARET. A building or portion of a building used for
providing dancing or other live entertainment, if the building or portion of a
building excludes minors by virtue of age or if the dancing or other live
entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE, COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A companionship establishment
which excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of
engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or discussion between an
employee of the establishment and a customer, if the service is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE, CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap parlor which
excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in
or listening to conversation, talk or discussion, if the service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE, HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club which excludes minors
by reason of age, or if the club is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE, HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel from which minors are
specifically excluded from patronage and wherein material is presented which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE, MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club
which restricts minors by reason of age, which provides the services of
massage, if the service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE, MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  A building or portion of a
building with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material
if the building or portion of a building as a prevailing practices excludes
minors by virtue of age, or if the material is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE, MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is the
provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to the customers and
who engage in specified sexual activities or display specified anatomical areas
while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured,
photographed or otherwise depicted by the customers.
      ADULT USE, MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motor picture
machines, projectors or other image-producing devises are maintained to show
images to five or fewer persons per machine at any on time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE, MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building
with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting materials in the
building or portion of a building as a building as a prevailing practice
excludes minors by virtue of age or if the material is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT USE, NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has a principal activity
the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which are
designated for sexual stimulation.
      ADULT USE, SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age or which
provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of bathing,
relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or
reducing agent, if the service provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE, STEAM BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a building
used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
pleasure, bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a
cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if the building or portion of a building
restricts minors by reason of age or if the service provided by the steam room/
bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, anus or female breast(s) below the point immediately above the
top of the areola.
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
         (a)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, beastiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexual-oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty;
         (b)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation, arousal or tumescence;
         (c)   Use of a human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus or masturbation;
         (d)   Fondling, or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breast;
         (e)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any such persons;
         (f)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; and/or
         (g)   Human erection, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
   (C)   General provisions. Adult uses as defined in this chapter shall be
subject to the following general provisions.
      (1)   Activities classified as obscene are not permitted and are
prohibited. In no instance shall the application or interpretation of this
chapter be construed to allow an activity otherwise prohibited by law.
      (2)   Adult uses, either principal or accessory, shall be prohibited from
locating in any building which is also utilized for residential purposes.
      (3)   An adult use which does not qualify as an accessory use pursuant to
division (B) above, shall be classified as an adult use, principal.
   (D)   Adult use; principal.
      (1)   Adult use, principal shall be a permitted use in the I-2 Limited
Industry District, subject to the locational criteria outlined in division (C)
(2) above.
      (2)   Adult use, principal shall be located at least 350 radial feet, as
measured in a straight line from the closest point of the property line of the
building upon which the adult use, principal is located to the property line
of:
         (a)   A zoning district in which residential uses are specifically
listed as a permitted or conditional use;
         (b)   A licensed day care center;
         (c)   A public or private educational facility classified as an
elementary, junior high or senior high;
         (d)   A public library;
         (e)   A public park;
         (f)   Another adult use, principal; or
         (g)   Any church or church related organization.
      (3)   No adult use, principal shall be located in the same building or
upon the same property as another adult use, principal.
      (4)   Adult use, principal shall adhere to the following signing
regulations in addition to the sign regulations of §
156.56(C)(1), (C)(2), (C)(3) and (C)(4).
         (a)   Sign messages shall be generic in nature and shall only identify
the name of business.
         (b)   Signs shall comply with the requirements of size and number for
the district in which they were located.
      (5)   Adult use, principal shall be limited to 7:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
for its hours of operation. A differing time schedule may be approved by the
City Council, if it can be satisfactorily demonstrated by the operated to the
City Council that all of the following apply:
         (a)   Not adversely impact or affect uses or activities within 350
feet;
         (b)   Will not result in increased policing and related service calls;
and
         (c)   Is critical to the operation of the business.
   (E)   Adult use; accessory. Adult uses, accessory, shall be permitted in all
commercial districts, provided the accessory use conforms with the provisions
of this division (E).
      (1)   Adult use, accessory shall:
         (a)   Comprise no more than 10% of the floor area of the establishment
in which it is located;
         (b)   Comprise no more than 20% of the gross receipts of the entire
business operation; or
         (c)   Not involve or include any activity except the sale or rental of
merchandise.
      (2)   Adult use, accessory shall be restricted from and prohibit access
to minors by the physical separation of such items from areas of general
public.
         (a)   Movie rentals. Display areas shall be restricted from general
view and shall be located within a separate room, the access of which is in
clear view and under the control of the persons responsible for the operation.
         (b)   Magazines. Publications classified or qualifying as adult uses
shall not be physically accessible to minors and shall be covered with a
wrapper or other means to prevent display of any material other than the
publication title.
         (c)   Other use. Adult uses, accessory not specifically cited shall
comply with the intent of this section subject to the approval of the Zoning
Administrator.
      (3)   Adult use, accessory shall be prohibited from both internal and
external advertising and signing of adult materials and products.
   (F)   Nonconforming adult use; principal or accessory. Adult uses which are
in existence prior to October 7, 2002, shall be classified as legal
nonconforming uses and may continue in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. If an adult use becomes nonconforming because of rezoning or the
establishment of a use listed in division (E)(2) above, the adult use shall be
considered legal nonconforming and may continue in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. In no instance, shall a legal nonconforming adult
use be allowed to structurally expand the use on the lot on which it is located
when the use became legally nonconforming, or expand the adult use to include
another lot on which the adult use was not located when it became legally
nonconforming. If the building in which a legal nonconforming adult use is
located is destroyed by any means to an extent of greater than 50% of its
market value, or if the building in which legally nonconforming adult use is
vacant for more than 12 months, an adult use shall not be re-established unless
it is in conformance with this section.
   (G)   Permitted use. The following uses shall be permitted in the I-
2 Limited Industry District:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the B-I Limited Business District and I-
1 General Industry District, except that dwellings shall not be a permitted
use;
      (2)   Bottling establishment;
      (3)   Building materials sales and storage, lumber yards;
      (4)   Cartage and express facilities;
      (5)   Contractors offices, shops and yards for plumbing, heating,
glazing, painting, paper hanging, roofing, ventilating, air conditioning,
masonry, electrical and refrigeration;
      (6)   Dry cleaning establishments, laundries;
      (7)   Electrical and electronic products manufacture;
      (8)   Electrical service shops;
      (9)   Engraving, printing and publishing;
      (10)   Freight terminal;
      (11)   Fuel and ice sales and storage;
      (12)   Garages for storage, repair and servicing of motor vehicles;
      (13)   Highway maintenance shops and yards;
      (14)   Jewelry manufacture;
      (15)   Medical, dental and optical laboratories;
      (16)   Monument works;
      (17)   Municipal administration buildings, police and fire stations,
maintenance buildings, community center buildings and other municipal service
buildings;
      (18)   Printing;
      (19)   Public service structures including power substations, gas
regulator stations, sewage disposal plants, elevated tanks and water works;
      (20)   Railroad rights-of-way, railroad yards;
      (21)   Research, experimental or testing stations;
      (22)   Storage or warehouse, when completely enclosed within a building;
      (23)   Wholesale business and office establishments; and
      (24)   Any water supply building, reservoir, well, elevated tank or
similar essential public utility or service structure.
   (H)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the I-2 Limited
Industry District subject to obtaining a conditional use permit in accordance
with the provisions of §
156.64:
      (1)   Any residence when included as an integral part of the principal
building to be occupied by the owner of his or her employee;
      (2)   Any manufacturing, assembling, processing, storage, servicing,
repair and testing of materials, goods or products;
      (3)   Extraction, processing or storage of sand, gravel, stone or other
raw material;
      (4)   Junk yards, wrecking yards or auto salvage yard; and
      (5)   Any radio or television transmitting or receiving apparatus.
   (I)   Permitted accessory uses. The following shall be permitted accessory
uses in the I-2 Limited Industry District: any accessory use customarily
incident to the uses permitted in divisions (D) and (E) above.
   (J)   Height, yard, area and lot width and depth regulations. Every lot in
the I-2 Limited Industry District on which any permitted or conditionally
permitted use is erected shall meet the following minimum standards:
      (1)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered to exceed 45 feet in height.
      (2)   Front yard regulations.
         (a)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet on a lot or plot that abuts a minor street or a marginal access service
street.
         (b)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of 35 feet on a lot
or plot that abuts thoroughfare as shown on the adopted City Thoroughfares
Plan.
         (c)   There shall be a front yard on each street side of a corner lot.
No accessory buildings shall project beyond the front yard line on wither
street.
      (3)   Side yard regulations. No side yard shall be required, except as
follows: no building shall be located within 20 feet of any side lot line
abutting any of the classes of residence districts.
      (4)   Rear yard regulations. No rear yard shall be required, except as
follows: no building shall be located within 25 feet of any rear lot line
abutting a lot in any of the classes of residence districts.
      (5)   Lot area, width and depth regulations. No minimum lot area, width
or depth shall be required, however, the lot size shall be adequate to meet the
setback, yard and other requirements of this chapter.
      (6)   Lot coverage regulations. Not more than 50% of the lot area shall
be occupied by buildings.
   (K)   General regulations. Additional regulations in the I-2 Limited
Industry District are set forth in §§
156.55 through
156.61.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.42 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Purpose. Most types of land use covered by this chapter are grouped
according to compatibility and function, and each group is permitted outright
in one or more various districts established in this chapter.
      (1)   In addition to these permitted uses, there are other uses which it
may be necessary or desirable to allow in certain districts, but because of
their potential impact on adjacent land or public facilities, need particular
and individual consideration prior to location in the community.
      (2)   These uses are classified in this chapter as “special uses” and
fall into two general categories:
         (a)   Uses municipally operated or operated by publicly regulated
utilities, and uses traditionally affected by public interest; and
         (b)   Uses entirely private in character which, because of their
peculiar locational needs or the nature of the service they offer to the
public, may have to be established in a district in which they cannot
reasonably be allowed as a permitted use under the zoning regulations.
   (B)   List of special uses. The City Council shall have authority to permit,
by ordinance, the following uses of land or structures in any district, except
as herein qualified and subject to the conditions and procedures set forth
herein:
      (1)   Airport or landing field;
      (2)   Mobile home park; and
      (3)   Any private club or lodge; except those the chief activity of which
is a service and customarily carried on as a business.
   (C)   Applications for special use approval. Application to build or occupy
any of the special uses listed in this section shall be filed with the city
administrative offices, and shall be accompanied by plans showing the proposed
development, including location of buildings and off-street parking areas.
   (D)   Procedure. The procedure for processing special use applications shall
be the same as for an amendment to the zoning ordinance, as set forth in §
156.08, including referral of the proposed special use to the Planning
Commission, consideration and action by the Commission, and hearing, notice and
action by City Council.
   (E)   Criteria for consideration of special uses. The following criteria
shall be used in considering a special use application by the Commission and
Council:
      (1)   The special use is necessary or desirable for the public
convenience at that location;
      (2)   The special use is so designed, located and proposed to be operated
that the public health, safety and welfare will be protected; and
      (3)   The special use will not cause substantial injury to the value of
other property in the neighborhood in which it is to be located.
   (F)   Authority to impose conditions. The Planning Commission may recommend
and the Council may provide conditions or restrictions upon the construction,
location and operation of a special use, including, but not limited to,
provision for off-street parking, as shall be deemed necessary to secure the
specific purposes and requirements of this section, and the general objectives
of this chapter.
   (G)   Existing special uses and changes to special uses. Special uses
existing at the time of adoption of this chapter or amendments thereto shall be
considered as conforming to this chapter, and may be rebuilt to the original
specifications if destroyed. Any additions or enlargements of existing special
uses or new special uses approved after adoption of this chapter shall be
subject to the entire application and hearing procedures required for new
special uses.
   (H)   Development plan. An approved special use shall be constructed and
maintained in accordance with the plans and conditions approved by the City
Council and, a special use certificate shall be issued accordingly.
   (I)   Delay for construction. In the event that construction of an approved
special use is not started within one year after approval by the Council, the
special use certificate shall expire and reapplication for approval of the
special use shall be necessary.
   (J)   Mobile home parks. Any mobile home park may be allowed subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   The applicant presents plans and specifications for the proposed
park in a form suitable for making the determination required herein.
      (2)   The proposed site contains not less than ten acres, and has no more
than ten mobile home spaces per gross acre.
      (3)   The park and all mobile homes within comply with appropriate
general ordinances and health and sanitary regulations.
      (4)   The park is suitable located for community facilities, including
water supply, sewage disposal, schools, shopping facilities and services, and
police and fire protection.
      (5)   The site is suitable for the purpose intended so far as soil,
ground water level, drainage and topography are concerned.
      (6)   The location of the park will not be detrimental to the adjacent
properties. Screening shall be provided where required by the Planning
Commission and the City Council.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008; Ord. 221, passed - -1999)
§ 156.43 URBAN SERVICE DISTRICT AND RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Establishment of districts. Pursuant to M.S. § 272.67, as it may be
amended from time to time, the city, hereby divides the area within its
corporate limits into an Urban Service District and a Rural Service District.
The districts shall be constituted as separate taxing districts for the purpose
of municipal property taxes, except those levied for the payment of bonds and
judgments and the interest thereon.
   (B)   Criteria/definitions.
      (1)   The Urban Service District shall include all properties located
within the corporate limits of the city, except for those properties which are
included in a Rural Service District.
      (2)   The Rural Service Districts shall include only unplatted land,
which need not be continuous to one another, and which, in the judgment of the
City Council at the time of the adoption of the ordinance, are rural in
character, and are not developed for commercial, industrial or urban
residential purposes, and for these reasons, are not benefitted to the same
degree as other lands located within the limits of the city and financed by
general taxation.
      (3)   The lands described in Exhibit A (attached to the ordinance
codified herein) are hereby included in the Rural Service District.
   (C)   Zoning.  
      (1)   The city zoning ordinance is hereby amended by changing the
district map and adding to the zoning ordinance a new zoning district known as
RS (Rural Service District).
      (2)   Regulations for RS (Rural Service Districts) include the following.
      (3)   In Rural Service Districts, the following regulations shall apply,
unless otherwise provided herein.
         (a)   The property must be rural in character.
         (b)   The property must not be developed, or used, for commercial,
industrial or residential purposes.
         (c)   Each parcel of land must not be less than ten contiguous acres
in area, and under single ownership.
         (d)   The property must be unused and seeded, or used for agricultural
purposes only. For purposes of this section, “agricultural purposes” shall
include only the following uses: agricultural uses, included farm crops, and
farm and agricultural buildings and structures (not residential dwellings),
subject to Minnesota pollution control standards, but not including feedlots,
manure spreading, livestock or other commercial or industrial operations.
         (e)   Farm and ag-related buildings and structures existing (but no
residential dwellings) at the time a property is first included in the Rural
Service District may continue to be utilized for agricultural purposes.
Existing buildings and structures may be repaired or replaced, if destroyed by
wind or fire, but may not be expanded. No permit shall be granted to construct
any new or additional buildings or structures.
         (f)   The following uses may be permitted by conditional use permit:
            1.   Landscape nurseries or forest lands; and
            2.   Privately owned recreational uses, which require relatively
large amounts of land.
   (D)   Change in use of property in Rural Service District.
      (1)   Whenever application is made for a permit for construction of a
commercial, industrial or residential building or improvement, or whenever the
improvement or building is commenced without a permit, the Council shall make
and enter an order by resolution transferring the parcel, or part thereof, from
the Rural Service District to the Urban Service District.
      (2)   Any application for platting of the property shall also permit the
City Council to make and enter an order by resolution transferring the parcel
from the Rural Service District to the Urban Service District.
   (E)   Benefit ratio. In the judgment of the City Council, the ratio which
exists between the benefits resulting from tax-supported municipal service to
parcels in the Rural Service District to parcels in the Urban Service District
is 10%, plus any municipal property taxes levied for the payment of bonds and
judgment and the interest thereon.
   (F)   Services provided. No city service beyond that normally provided by
the townships of Blue Earth County will be provided by the city in a Rural
Service District, except fire, police and planning services.
(Ord. 298, passed 3-7-2016)
 
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 156.55 STANDARDS.
   The guiding of land development into a compatible relationship of uses
depends upon the maintenance of certain standards. In the various use
districts, the permitted, accessory and conditional uses shall conform to the
standards enumerated in this section.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.56 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   All signs hereafter erected or maintained, except official, traffic and
street signs, shall conform with the provisions of this section, and any other
ordinance or regulations of the city.
   (A)   General sign provisions. The following regulations shall apply to all
signs hereinafter permitted in all districts.
      (1)   Illuminated signs giving off intermittent or rotating beams shall
not be permitted in any district.
      (2)   No sign shall project more than 48 inches over a public sidewalk,
except that the City Council may, after a report from the Planning Commission,
grant a conditional use permit for temporary signs and decorations to be strung
across the right-of-way.
      (3)   No sign shall be placed that resembles any official marker erected
by a governmental agency or display such words as “Stop” or “Danger”.
      (4)   No sign shall be permitted to obstruct any window, door, fire
escape, stairway or opening intended to provide light, air, ingress or egress
for any building or structure.
      (5)   The owner, lessee or manager of a ground sign, and the owner of the
land on which the same is located, shall keep grass or weeds and other growth
cut and debris and rubbish cleaned up and removed from the lot on which sign is
located.
      (6)   Advertising signs, business signs and name plate signs which may be
or may hereafter become unsafe or in a condition of disrepair shall be repaired
or removed by the owner, or owner of the property upon which the sign stands,
upon notice of the City Council.
      (7)   Where a sign is illuminated, the source of light shall not shine
directly upon any part of a residence in any of the classes of residence
districts.
   (B)   Signs in R-1 Agriculture Residence Districts, R-2 Single-Family
Residence Districts and R-3 Multiple-Family Residence Districts. In any class
of residence district, no business sign, name plate sign or advertising sign
shall be erected except the following:
      (1)   A name plate sign, or professional name plate sign, identifying the
owner or occupant of a building or dwelling unit, provided the surface area
does not exceed two square feet;
      (2)   A sign pertaining to the lease or sale of a building or property,
provided the sign shall not exceed 12 square feet in surface area and shall not
be illuminated;
      (3)   Temporary unilluminated signs identifying an engineer, architect,
contractor or product engaged in or used in the construction of a building,
provided the signs shall not exceed 12 square feet each in surface area, and
are no more than 15 feet in height, and provided the signs are removed prior to
occupancy of the building;
      (4)   One identification sign, not to exceed 30 square feet in area, for
the following uses: church, school, hospital, sanitarium, club, library or
similar uses. These signs shall be solely for the purpose of displaying the
name of the institution and its activities or services. It may be illuminated
but not flashing; and
      (5)   Directional signs in any parking area necessary for the orderly
movement of traffic, provided that the sign shall not be used as advertising
space and shall not be illuminated.
   (C)   Signs in B-1 Limited Business Districts, B-2 Central Business
Districts, I-1 General Industry Districts and I-2 Limited Industry Districts.
In Limited and General Business Districts, General and Limited Industry
Districts, business signs, advertising signs and name plate signs are permitted
subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   Signs as permitted and regulated in division (B) above;
      (2)   Business signs, the total surface area of all business signs on a
lot shall not exceed the sum of two square feet per lineal foot of lot
frontages. No single business sign surface shall exceed 75 square feet in area;
      (3)   Advertising signs (billboards); advertising sign structures shall
be limited to not more than one for a lot of 100 foot frontage or less and to
only one per each additional 100 feet of additional lot frontage. The structure
may not contain more than two signs per facing nor exceed 55 feet in total
length. No advertising sign shall be erected within 50 feet of an adjoining
residential district; and
      (4)   No sign shall project higher than 30 feet above average grade at
the building line.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008; Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2016)
§ 156.57 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   All off-street parking and loading shall conform with the provisions of this
section and any other ordinances and regulations of the city, and shall apply
to all buildings and uses of land established after the effective date of this
chapter.
   (A)   Minimum size regulations. Each off-street parking space shall contain
a minimum area of not less than 260 square feet including access drives, a
width of not less than eight and one-half feet, and a depth of not less than 20
feet. Each space shall be adequately served by access drives. Each off-street
loading space shall contain a minimum area of not less than 500 square feet.
   (B)   Reduction and use of parking and loading space. Off-street parking
facilities existing at the effective date of this chapter shall not
subsequently be reduced to an amount less than that required under this chapter
for a similar new building or use. Off-street parking facilities provided to
comply with the provisions of this chapter shall not subsequently be reduced
below the requirements of this chapter. The required parking or loading space
shall not be used for storage of goods or for storage of vehicles that are
inoperable or for sale or rent.
   (C)   Computing requirements. In computing the number of parking spaced
required the following rules shall govern.
      (1)   Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required shall
be construed to be the nearest whole number.
      (2)   The parking space requirement for a use not specifically mentioned
herein shall be the same as required for a use of similar nature as determined
by the City Planning Commission.
   (D)   Yards.
      (1)   In all classes of R Residence Districts, off-street parking and
loading facilities shall be subject to the front yard, side yard and rear yard
regulations for the use district in which the parking is located.
      (2)   In the B-1 and B-2 Business Districts, I-1 and I-2 Industry
Districts, no off-street parking or loading shall be located within ten feet of
any property line that abuts a street right-of-way or any of the classes of
residence districts.
   (E)   Combined facilities. Combined or joint parking facilities may be
provided for one or more buildings or uses in R Residence Districts, in B-1 and
B-2 Business Districts, I-1 and in I-2 Industry Districts, provided that the
total number of spaces shall equal the sum of the requirements for each
building or use.
   (F)   Fences and planting screens. Off-street parking and loading areas
adjoining a Residence District shall be screened by a fence of adequate design
or a planting screen; plans of the screen or fence shall be submitted for
approval as a part of the required site or plot plan, and the fence or
landscaping shall be installed as a part of the initial construction.
   (G)   Access.
      (1)   Parking and loading space shall have proper access from a public
right-of-way.
      (2)   The number and width of access drives shall be so located as to
minimize traffic congestion and abnormal traffic congestion.
      (3)   Vehicular access to business or industrial uses across property in
an R Residence District shall be prohibited.
      (4)   No dwelling shall hereafter be erected or altered unless there is
direct access to it from a street, highway or alley through an open space at
least as wide as the dwelling and on the same lot. No building shall hereafter
be erected or altered so as to close the present means of access to diminish
this means of access to a width less than the width of the existing dwelling.
   (H)   Location of parking facilities. Required off-street parking space
shall be provided on the same lot as the principal building or use; the B-
2 Central Business District shall be exempted from the requirement.
   (I)   Construction and maintenance.
      (1)   In B-1 and B-2 Business Districts, parking areas and access drives
shall be covered with a dust-free, all-weather surface with proper surface
drainage to specifications required by the City Council.
      (2)   The operator of the principal building or use shall maintain
parking and loading areas, access drives and yard areas in a neat and adequate
manner.
   (J)   Lighting. Lighting shall be reflected away from the public right-of-
way and nearby or adjacent R Residence Districts.
   (K)   Required site plan. Any application for a building permit or for a
certificate of occupancy shall include a site plan or a plot plan drawn to
scale and dimensioned showing off-street parking and loading space to be
provided in compliance with this chapter.
   (L)   Required number of off-street parking spaces. 
      (1)   Off-street parking areas of sufficient size to provide parking for
patrons, customers, suppliers, visitors and employees shall be provided on the
premises of each use.
      (2)   The minimum number of required off-street parking spaced for the
following uses shall be as follows:
         (a)   One-family detached dwelling: one parking space. No garage shall
be converted into living space unless other acceptable off-street parking space
is provided;
         (b)   One-family attached and two-family dwelling: one parking space
for each family or dwelling unit;
         (c)   Multi-family dwelling or mobile home park: one parking space per
dwelling unit or apartment unit;
         (d)   Boarding and lodging house: one parking space for each two
persons for whom sleeping accommodations are provided;
         (e)   Convalescent or nursing home: one parking space for each four
beds for which sleeping accommodations are provided;
         (f)   Hospitals: one parking space for each two hospital beds plus one
parking space for each employee on the major shift;
         (g)   Public park and recreation area: five parking spaces for each
acre of park, playground or playfield over two acres;
         (h)   Churches: one parking space for each four seats based on the
design capacity of the main sanctuary;
         (i)   Public elementary school or similar private school: two spaces
per classroom;
         (j)   Public junior and senior high school or similar private school:
one parking space for each classroom, plus one parking space for each ten
students, based on design capacity;
         (k)   Municipal administration buildings, community center, public
library. Museum, art galleries, post office and other municipal service
buildings: ten parking spaces plus one parking space for each 500 square feet
of floor area over 1,000 square feet of floor area;
         (l)   Golf course, golf clubhouse, country club, swimming club, tennis
club, public swimming pool: 20 spaces plus one space for each 500 square feet
of floor area in the principal structure;
         (m)   Professional offices, medical and dental clinics, and animal
hospital: four parking spaces plus one parking space for each 500 square feet
of floor area over 1,000 square feet of floor area;
         (n)   Office buildings: ten parking spaces plus one parking space for
each 500 square feet of floor area over 1,000 square feet of floor area;
         (o)   Shopping center: where several business uses are grouped
together on a single site, off-street automobile parking shall be provided in a
ratio of not less than three square feet of gross parking area for each one
square foot of gross floor area; separate off-street space shall be provided
for loading and unloading;
         (p)   Automobile service station: four parking spaces plus two parking
spaces for each service stall; the parking spaces shall be in addition to
parking space required for gas pump areas;
         (q)   Auto sales, trailer sales, marine and boat sales, implement
sales, garden supply store, building material sale, auto repair: six parking
spaces plus one parking space for each 500 square feet of floor area over 1,000
square feet;
         (r)   Bowling alley: five parking spaces for each bowling lane;
         (s)   Drive-in restaurant: 20 parking spaces or one space for each 20
square feet of floor area, whichever is greater;
         (t)   Motel or motor hotel: one parking space for each rental room or
suite;
         (u)   Miniature golf course, archery range or golf driving rang: ten
parking spaces;
         (v)   Assembly or exhibition hall, auditorium, theater or sports
arena: one parking space for each four seats based upon design capacity;
         (w)   Restaurant, café, nightclub, tavern or bar: one parking space
for each 75 square feet of floor area;
         (x)   Skating rink or dance hall: one parking space for each 200
square feet of floor area;
         (y)   Retail stores and service establishments: one off-street parking
space for each 100 square feet of floor area, plus one space for each employee
on the major shift or one off-street parking space for each 350 square feet of
gross floor area within the building, whichever is greater;
         (z)   Research, experimental or testing stations: one off-street
parking space for each employee on the major shift or one off-street parking
space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area within the building,
whichever is the greater;
         (aa)   Wholesale business establishments: one off-street parking space
for each employee on the major shift or one space for each 2,000 square feet of
gross floor area, whichever is greater, plus one off-street parking space for
each company motor vehicle when customarily kept on the premises;
         (bb)   Storage or warehouse establishments: one off-street parking
space for each two employees on the major shift or one space for each 2,000
square feet of floor area, whichever is larger, plus one space for each company
motor vehicle when customarily kept on the premises; and
         (cc)   Manufacturing or processing plant: one off-street parking space
for each employee on the major shift or one off-street parking space for each
350 square feet of gross floor area within the building, whichever is the
greater, plus one space for each company motor vehicle when customarily kept on
the premises.
   (M)   Required loading areas. Loading and unloading areas for goods,
supplies and services shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of each use.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.58 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   It is the intent of this section to provide that in all B-1 and B-2 Business
Districts and in all I-1 and I-2 Industry Districts, business industry and
related activities shall be established and maintained with proper appearance
from streets and adjoining properties and to provide that each such permitted
use shall be a good neighbor to adjoining properties by the control of the
following.
   (A)   Relationship to other laws. Regardless of any other provision of this
chapter, no land shall be used and no structure erected and maintained in
violation of any state or federal pollution control or environmental protection
law or regulation.
   (B)   Landscaping. All required yards shall either be open landscaped and
green areas or be left in a natural state. If any yards are to be landscaped,
they shall be landscaped attractively with lawn, trees, shrubs and the like.
Any areas left in a natural state shall be properly maintained in a slightly
and well-kept condition. All landscaping and weed control shall be maintained
in compliance of other city ordinances or state statutes regulating thereof.
Yards adjoining any residence district shall be landscaped with a buffer
screen. Plans of the screens shall be submitted for approval as apart of the
site plan and installed prior to issuance of a building permit for any lot
within the district.
   (C)   Storage of materials. Open storage of materials in any required front,
side or rear yard shall be prohibited. Any other outside storage shall be
located or screened so as not to be visible from any Residence District.
   (D)   Noise. Noise shall be measured on any property line of the tract on
which the operation is located. Noise shall be muffled so as not to become
objectionable due to intermittence beat frequency, shrillness or intensity,
except for noise from agricultural sources. Noise generated by agricultural use
shall be exempted.
   (E)   Odors. Any use established, enlarged or remodeled shall be so operated
as to prevent the emission of odorous matter of such quantity as to be readily
detectable at any point beyond the lot line of the site on which the use is
located. Detailed plans for the prevention of odors crossing property lines may
be required before the issuance of a building permit, except odors from
agricultural sources.
   (F)   Exterior lighting. Any lights used for exterior illumination shall
direct light away from adjoining properties.
   (G)   Vibration. Any use creating periodic earth-shaking vibrations shall be
prohibited if the vibrations are perceptible beyond the lot line of the site on
which the use is located. This standard shall not apply to vibrations created
during the process of construction.
   (H)   Glare and heat. Any use producing intense heat or light transmission
shall be performed with the necessary shielding to prevent the heat or light
from being detectable at the lot line of the site on which the use is located.
   (I)   Smoke and particulate matter. Any use established, enlarged or
remodeled after the effective date of this chapter shall be so operated as to
meet the minimum requirements of the State Pollution Control Agency for the
emission of smoke or particulate matter.
   (J)   Toxic or noxious matter. Any use established shall be so operated as
not to discharge across the boundaries of the lot or through percolation into
the subsoil beyond the boundaries of the lot wherein the use is located, toxic
or noxious matter in such concentration as to be detrimental to or endanger the
public health, safety, comfort or welfare, or cause injury or damage to
property or business. Any such use shall not discharge into the atmosphere,
water or subsoil, any toxic or noxious matter.
   (K)   Explosives. Any use requiring the storage, utilization or
manufacturing of products which could decompose by detonation shall be located
not less than 400 feet from any residence. This section shall not apply the
storage or usage of liquefied petroleum or natural gas for normal residential
or business purposes.
   (L)   Radiation emission. All activities that emit radioactivity shall
comply with the minimum requirements of the State Pollution Control Agency.
   (M)   Electrical emission. All activities which create electrical emissions
shall comply with the minimum requirements of the Federal Communications
Commission.
   (N)   Compliance. In order to ensure compliance with the performance
standards set forth above, the City Council may require the owner or operator
of any permitted or conditional use to have made the investigations and tests
as may be required to show adherence to the performance standards. The
investigations and tests as are required to be made shall be carried out by an
independent testing organization as may be selected by the city.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.59 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS, EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Height modifications. Height limitations set forth elsewhere in this
chapter may be increased by 100% when applied to the following:
      (1)   Monuments;
      (2)   Water towers;
      (3)   Flag poles;
      (4)   Chimneys, smokestacks and antennas;
      (5)   Cooling towers; and
      (6)   Grain elevators.
   (B)   Yard modifications. Measurements shall be taken from the nearest point
of the wall of a building to the lot line in question, subject to the following
qualifications.
      (1)   Cornices, canopies or eaves may extend into the required front yard
a distance not exceeding four feet, six inches.
      (2)   Fire escapes may extend into the required front yard a distance not
exceeding four feet, six inches.
      (3)   A landing place or uncovered porch may extend into the required
front yard to a distance not exceeding six feet.
      (4)   The above enumerated architectural features may also extend into
any side or rear yard to the same extent, except that no porch, terrace or
outside stairway shall project into the required side yard distance.
      (5)   A wall, fence or hedge may occupy part of the required front, side
or rear yards.
      (6)   The required front yard of a corner lot shall not contain any wall,
fence or other structure, tree, shrub or other growth which may cause danger to
traffic on a street or public road by obscuring the view.
      (7)   No trees shall be planted in the right-of-way of any public
utilities easement.
      (8)   On double frontage lots, the required front yard shall be provided
on both streets.
      (9)   In determining the depth of rear yard for any building where the
rear yard opens into an alley, one-half the width of the alley, but not
exceeding ten feet, may be considered as a portion of the rear yard.
   (C)   Accessory buildings.
      (1)   In case an accessory building is attached to the main building, it
shall be made structurally a part of the main building and shall comply in all
respects with the requirements of the chapter applicable to the main building.
An accessory building, unless attached to and made a part of the main building,
shall not be closer than five feet to the main building.
      (2)   A detached accessory building shall not be located in any required
front or side yard.
      (3)   A detached accessory building in any class of R Residence District
not over one story and not exceeding 14 feet in height shall occupy not more
than 30% of the area of any rear yard, provided further that no detached
accessory building shall be located within five feet of any rear lot line or
utility easement.
      (4)   A detached accessory building in a B-1 Limited Business, B-
2 Central Business or I-1 General Industry District, or I-2 Limited Industry
District shall conform to the development standards of the district in which it
is located.
   (D)   Fences.
      (1)   Building permits are required to construct a fence in any location
within the city limits.
      (2)   A fence may be constructed to the property line or right-of-way
line, in any class of R Residence District. The individual(s) constructing the
fence is responsible for locating the abutting property line.
      (3)   The property owner constructing a fence up to the property line or
right-of-way line must obtain written permission from the abutting property
owners to construct and maintain the fence.
      (4)   A fence shall not be constructed which has a height exceeding six
feet, measured from ground level to the top of the fences, in any class of R
Residence District.
      (5)   A fence constructed in any class of R Residence District shall be
constructed so that the decorative side of the fence faces the abutting street
or properties and the back side of the fence faces the property of the
individual(s) constructing the fence.
      (6)   Existing fences are hereby approved. At the time an existing fence
is replaced or structural repairs made, such as posts or fencing material, the
new or repaired fence must comply with sections divisions (D)(1), (D)(2), (D)
(3), (D)(4), (D)(5) above or (D)(7) below, or division (E) below.
      (7)   A fence shall not be constructed closer than ten feet to a property
line or right-of-way line where there are overhead or underground existing or
planned utility infrastructure. The city and the city municipal utility
departments reserve existing and future utility easements along property lines
and right-of-way lines, and the access thereto.
   (E)   Additional requirements for one-family detached dwellings.
      (1)   All new one-family detached dwellings constructed shall have a
minimum width of 24 feet, in any of the classes of residence districts.
      (2)   All new one-family detached dwellings constructed shall have a
foundation, in any of the classes of residence districts:
         (a)   Constructed of concrete block, poured concrete or treated
lumber;
         (b)   Constructed as to encompass the perimeter dimensions of the
single-family dwelling unit, ground level perimeter; and
         (c)   The foundation shall be supported by footing.
      (3)   All new one-family detached dwellings constructed shall have a roof
overhang of at least 12 inches in any of the classes of residence districts.
   (F)   Swimming pools.
      (1)   A residential swimming pool is defined as any pool which contains
more than 3,000 gallons of water and/or has a depth of more than three and one-
half feet.
      (2)   No residential swimming pool may be constructed without first
obtaining a building or land use permit.
      (3)   No residential swimming pool may be built within ten feet of any
side or rear lot line or within ten feet of any principal structure.
      (4)   No residential swimming pool may be built within a required front
yard or within 25 feet of any front yard lot line.
      (5)   Construction of a residential swimming pool may not be started
without having the same fully enclosed with a fence, which may be temporary or
portable, not less than five feet in height.
      (6)   No residential swimming pool may be constructed beneath overhead
utility lines of any type or above underground utility lines of any type.
      (7)   No residential swimming pool may be constructed within 20 feet of
any on-site sewer system facility.
      (8)   No residential swimming pool may be finished without completely
enclosing it with a permanent wall or fence of the non-climbing type so as to
be impenetrable by toddlers, affording not external hand holds, and a minimum
of five feet in height. No integral part of any residential swimming pool shall
constitute compliance with this division (F). All the enclosures shall be
equipped with a self-locking and self-closing gate. The locking device shall be
located within 12 inches of the top of the fence and opened by key only. The
opening between the bottom of the fence or gate and the ground of other surface
shall not be more than three inches.
      (9)   No residential swimming pool shall be constructed or maintained
which is not enclosed within a fence or wall as described in the foregoing
divisions or a latchable cover. The cover shall be constructed of a material
which cannot be penetrated by toddlers.
      (10)   No outdoor lighting may be maintained which is permitted to spill
or shine upon properties adjacent thereto which are not under the same
ownership.
      (11)   All residential swimming pools constructed prior to the effective
date of this section shall substantially comply with this section within 60
days from the effective date hereof. Owners of pools constructed prior to the
effective date of this section may make a written request for an exception.
      (12)   Swimming pool regulations as stated in this division (F) shall not
apply to seasonally erected swimming pools, provided all means of access to the
seasonally erected swimming pool are removed and the swimming pool is covered
when not in use.
   (G)   Facade standards.
      (1)   Architectural and aesthetic compatibility. Buildings in all zoning
districts shall maintain a high standard of architectural and aesthetic
compatibility with surrounding properties.
      (2)   Steel or aluminum buildings. Except in association with farming
activities, no galvanized or unfinished steel or unfinished aluminum buildings
(walls or roofs), except those specifically intended to have a corrosion
resistant finish shall be permitted in any zoning district.
      (3)   Building type and construction in R-1, R-2, and R-3 Residential
Zoning Districts:
         (a)   The exterior walls of all residential principal and accessory
structures shall be in similar appearance to normal wood or masonry residential
construction.
         (b)   Metal of any kind is prohibited as a primary facade material
(excluding steel or aluminum lap siding). Metal may be used as trim or accent
up to 20% of any facade.
         (c)   Any metal siding shall have horizontal edges and a vertical
dimension no greater than 12 inches.
   (H)   Portable temporary storage units. Portable temporary storage units
including, but not limited to, cargo containers, portable on-demand storage
units, and semi-trailers, are not allowed as permanent storage structures in
any residential zoning district, B-1 Limited Business District or B-2 General
Business District. Portable temporary storage units being used for relocation
and improvement projects are permitted in these zoning districts subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   The portable temporary storage unit is enclosed and secure.
      (2)   The portable temporary storage unit is in a condition free from
rust, peeling paint, and other forms of visible deterioration.
      (3)   The portable temporary storage unit is located on a property for no
more than 30 consecutive days in one calendar year, unless there is an active
building permit in place for the property, in which case the portable temporary
storage unit may be located on the property for no more than 90 consecutive
days.
      (4)   The portable temporary storage unit is located on a driveway or
hard surface area in the front yard, must be set back a minimum of 15 feet from
the public street curb and five feet from a private street curb, and five feet
from side property lines, and may not intrude on sidewalks.
      (5)   No permit is required for the portable temporary storage unit. The
city may require information appertaining to the dates upon which the portable
temporary storage unit was placed on a property and when it will be removed if
concerns are raised over the duration of time during which the storage unit is
located on the property.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008; Ord. 282, passed 7-16-2012; Ord. 2017-05, passed
10-16-2017; Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 156.60 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW PROGRAM.
   (A)   Adoption by reference of certain terms and regulations for the
administration of the Lake Crystal Environmental Review Program. The provisions
of the rules for the Environmental Review Program, 6 MCAR 3.021 to 3.047, one
copy of which is on file in the office of the city administrative offices, are
hereby adopted, together with the other provisions of this chapter, as the
environmental review operating procedures this city will follow in implementing
the provisions of M.S. Chapter 116D, as it may be amended from time to time,
relating to the Environmental Review Program and any rules adopted thereunder
by the State Environmental Quality Board. All terms used in this chapter shall
have the same meaning as the terms used in M.S. Ch. 116D, as it may be amended
from time to time, and the rules adopted thereunder.
   (B)   Cost of preparation and review.
      (1)   Information to be provided. The applicant for a permit for any
action for which environmental documents are required either by state law or
rules or by the City Council shall supply in the manner prescribed by the city
administrative offices all unprivileged data or information reasonably
requested by the city that the applicant has in his or her possession or to
which he or she has reasonable access.
      (2)   Environmental assessment worksheets. The applicant for a permit or
any action for which an environmental assessment worksheet (EAW) is required
either by state law or rules or by the City Council shall pay all costs of
preparation and review of the EAW, and, upon the request of and in the manner
prescribed by the city administrative offices shall prepare a draft EAW and
supply all information necessary to complete that document.
      (3)   Environmental impact statement. The city and the applicant for a
permit for any action for which an environmental impact statement (EIS) is
required shall comply with the provisions of the rules governing assessment of
costs for environmental impact statements, one copy of which is on file in the
city administrative offices, unless the applicant and the City Council provide
otherwise by a written agreement.
      (4)   Payment of costs. No permit for an action for which an EAW or an
EIS is required shall be issued until all costs of preparation and review which
are to be paid by the applicant are paid, and all information required is
supplied, and until the environmental review process has been completed as
provided in this chapter and the rules adopted by reference by this chapter,
and pursuant to any written agreement entered into by the applicant for the
permit or permits and the City Council under the provision of division (B)(5)
below.
      (5)   Agreements concerning cost of preparation and review. The applicant
for a permit for any action for which an EAW or EIS is required and the City
Council may, in writing, agree as to a different division of the costs of
preparation and review of any EAW or EIS as provided in 6 MCAR 3.042.
   (C)   Administration.
      (1)   The City Administrator shall be the person responsible for the
administration of the Environmental Review Program, this chapter and the rules
adopted by reference by this chapter.
      (2)   The City Administrator shall be responsible for determining whether
an action for which a permit is required is an action for which an EAW is
mandatory under 6 MCAR 3.024. The City Administrator shall also determine those
proposed actions for which an optional EAW may be required under the provisions
of the chapter and shall notify the Planning Commission and the City Council of
these proposed actions.
      (3)   All EAWs and EISs shall be prepared under the supervision of the
City Administrator, reviewed by the Planning Commission and reviewed and
approved by the City Council.
      (4)   When reviewing an EAW or EIS, the City Administrator and the
Planning Commission may suggest design alterations which would lessen the
environmental impact of the action. The City Council may required these design
alterations to be made as a condition for issuing the permit when it finds that
the design alterations are necessary to lessen the environmental impact of the
action.
      (5)   After an EAW is prepared, the Planning Commission shall review the
EAW and recommend to the City Council whether or not it should require the
preparation of an EIS. The City Council shall require an EIS when it finds
under 6 MCAR 3.025 that an action is major and has potential for significant
environmental effects.
   (D)   Optional environmental assessment worksheet. 
      (1)   The City Council may, upon recommendation by the City Administrator
require that an optional EAW by prepared on any proposed action if the action
may be a major action and appears to have the potential for significant
environmental effects.
      (2)   The following guidelines shall also be considered in determining
whether an optional EAW shall be required:
         (a)   Is the action to be in or near an area that is considered to be
environmentally sensitive or aesthetically pleasing;
         (b)   Is the action likely to have disruptive effects such as
generating traffic and noise; and
         (c)   Are there public questions or controversy concerning the
environmental effects of the proposed actions?
   (E)   Enforcement and penalty.
      (1)   No permit shall be issued for a project for which environmental
documents are required until the entire environmental review procedures
established by this chapter are completed.
      (2)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by §
10.99. Each day that the violation is permitted to exist constitutes a separate
offense.
      (3)   No work shall commence and any work in progress on any project for
which environmental documents are required shall cease until the environmental
review procedures established by this chapter are fully complied with.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.61 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations are permitted in conjunction with any residential use
subject to the following limitations and restrictions.
   (A)   No more than one person other than the members of the family occupying
the premises shall be employed in conjunction with a permitted home occupation.
   (B)   The home occupation shall be incidental and subordinate to the use of
the premises for residential purposes.
   (C)   Floor area devoted to the home occupation shall not exceed 30% of the
main floor space of the principal dwelling.
   (D)   The home occupation shall be conducted wholly within the dwelling.
There shall be not exterior storage of materials used in conjunction with the
home occupation.
   (E)   No traffic shall be generated by the home occupation beyond that which
is reasonable and normal for the area in which it is located.
   (F)   Only one non-illuminated sign not to exceed two square feet shall be
allowed in conjunction with the home occupation.
   (G)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation to
create noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable off the premises.
   (H)   The home occupation shall not be objectionable to neighbors due to
hours of operation.
   (I)   There shall be no display or evidence apparent from the exterior of
the lot that the premises are being used for any purpose other than that of a
dwelling.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.62 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to facilitate the
construction, installation and operation of solar energy systems in the city in
a manner that protects the health, safety and welfare of the public.
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Roof-mounted solar energy systems and ground-mounted solar energy
systems. Roof-mounted solar energy systems and ground-mounted solar energy
systems, subject to the regulations and requirements of this section, are
allowable as an accessory use in all zoning districts; and
      (2)   Community solar gardens and solar farms. Community solar gardens or
solar farms, subject to the regulations and requirements of this section, may
be allowed as a principle or accessory, conditional use within the following
zoning districts: R-1 Agricultural Residence District, I-1 General Industrial
District and I-2 Limited Industry District.
   (C)   Solar energy systems. The following standards apply to solar energy
systems, subject to standards of the applicable zoning district in which they
are located.
      (1)   Standards.
         (a)   Height. Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall comply, at
minimum, with the height standards of the applicable zoning district and
structure type (principal or accessory), however; they shall not project beyond
the peak of the roof and shall not be more than three feet, measured in a
vertical line, above the roof surface to which they are attached. Ground-
mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed 15 feet in height.
         (b)   Location. Ground-mounted solar energy systems must be located in
the rear yard only.
         (c)   Setbacks. Ground mounted solar energy systems shall comply with
the accessory structure setback standards for the applicable zoning district in
which they are located. Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall comply with all
building setbacks in the applicable zoning district and structure type
(principal or accessory) on which they are mounted and shall not extend beyond
the exterior perimeter of the building on which the system is mounted.
Community solar gardens or solar farms shall comply with the principal
structure setback standards for the applicable zoning district in which they
are located.
         (d)   Coverage. Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not cover more
than 80% of the total area of the roof. Solar energy systems must have one foot
of clearance around all edges to facilitate emergency responder access.
         (e)   Feeder lines. All power exterior electrical or other service
lines must be buried below the surface of the ground.
         (f)   Exemption. Building integrated solar energy systems are exempt
from the requirements of this section and shall be regulated as any other
building element.
      (2)   Safety.
         (a)   Compliance with Building Codes. All solar energy systems shall
comply with the State Building Code and any local building code requirements.
         (b)   Compliance with Electric Code. All solar energy systems shall
comply with the National Electrical Code.
         (c)   Compliance with Plumbing Code. All solar thermal systems shall
comply with the State Plumbing Code.
         (d)   Certifications. Solar energy system components shall be
certified by UL, L.L.C. (formerly known as Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.) or
its equivalent. Solar energy systems shall be certified by the Solar Rating and
Certification Corporation or its equivalent. The city reserves the right to
deny a building permit for proposed solar energy systems deemed to have
inadequate certification.
      (3)   Approval.
         (a)   Permits. The erection, alteration, improvement, reconstruction
and movement of a solar energy system requires a building permit from the city.
         (b)   Utility notification. The owner of a solar energy system that
will physically connect to a house or other building’s electrical system and/or
the electric utility grid must enter into a signed interconnection agreement
with the utility prior to the issuance of a building permit. Off-grid systems
are exempt from this requirement.
      (4)   Abandonment. If the solar energy system remains nonfunctional or
inoperative for more than 18 consecutive months, the system shall constitute a
public nuisance. The owner shall obtain a demolition permit and remove the
abandoned system at their expense. Removal includes the entire structure,
including collector, mount and transmission equipment.
      (5)   Aesthetics. All solar energy systems shall use colors that are
earth-toned. Reflection angles from collector surfaces shall be oriented so as
not to interfere with the use and enjoyment of other properties. Where
necessary, screening may be required to address glare.
      (6)   Easements. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
secure any desired solar easement to protect solar access for the system (per
M.S. § 500.30, as it may be amended from time to time).
      (7)   Installation. Solar energy systems shall be installed only by
licensed contractors.
(Ord. 296, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 156.63 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to facilitate the
construction, installation and operation of wind energy conversion systems in
the city in a manner that protects the health, safety and welfare of the
public.
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Wind energy conversion systems. Wind energy conversion systems,
subject to the regulations and requirements of this section, may be allowed as
a principle or accessory, conditional use within the following zoning
districts: R-1 Agricultural Residence District, I-1 General Industrial District
and I-2 Limited Industry District, provided the property upon which the system
is to be located is on a parcel of land at least five acres in size.
      (2)   Small wind energy conversion systems. Small wind conversion
systems, subject to the regulations and requirements of this section, are
allowable as an accessory use in all zoning districts, provided they meet the
following standards.
         (a)   The small wind conversion system shall meet the required
principal building setbacks.
         (b)   The small wind conversion system shall extend no more than five
feet above the height of the principal building.
         (c)   The proposed small wind conversion system shall not block,
interfere or otherwise impair a scenic vista or corridor or the view of an
adjoining residential building.
         (d)   The small wind conversion system shall meet all Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency standards for noise emissions.
         (e)   The primary purpose of the small wind conversion system shall be
to provide power for the principal use of the property and shall not be for the
generation of power for commercial purposes, although this provision shall not
be interpreted to prohibit the sale of excess power generated from the system
back to the public utility.
   (C)   Declaration of conditions. The City Council may impose such conditions
on the granting of a wind energy conversion system conditional use permit as
may be necessary to carry out the purpose and provisions of this section and to
maintain compatibility.
   (D)   Site plan drawing. All applications for a wind energy conversion
system conditional use permit shall be accompanied by a detailed site plan
drawn to scale and dimensioned, displaying the following information:
      (1)   Lot lines and dimensions;
      (2)   Location and height of all buildings, structures, above-ground
utilities and trees on the lot, including both existing and proposed structures
and guy wires anchors;
      (3)   Locations and height of all adjacent buildings, structures, above-
ground utilities and trees located within 350 feet of the exterior boundaries
of the property in question;
      (4)   Existing and proposed setbacks of all structures located on the
property in question; and
      (5)   Sketch elevation of the premises accurately depicting the proposed
wind energy conversion systems and its relationship to structures on adjacent
lots.
   (E)   Wind energy conversion systems. The following standards apply to wind
energy conversion systems, subject to standards of the applicable zoning
district in which they are located.
      (1)   Design standards.
         (a)   Height. The permitted maximum height of a wind energy conversion
system shall be determined in one of two ways. In determining the height of the
wind energy conversion system, the total height of the system shall be
included.
            1.   System height shall be measured from the base of the tower to
the highest possible extension of the rotor:
               a.   A ratio of one foot to one foot between the distance of the
closest property line to the base of wind energy conversion system to the
height of the system; and
               b.   A maximum system height of 150 feet.
            2.   The shortest height of the two above mentioned methods shall
be used in determining the maximum allowable height of a wind energy conversion
system. The height of a wind energy conversion system must also comply with
Federal Aviation Administration regulations codified at 14 C.F.R. Part 77 and/
or Minn. Rules 8800.1200.
         (b)   Setbacks. No part of a wind energy conversion system (including
guy wire anchors) shall be located within or above any required front, side or
rear yard setback and no part of the system shall be within ten feet of any
property line, whichever is greater. Wind energy conversion system towers shall
be setback from the closest property line one foot for every one foot of system
height. Wind energy conversion systems shall not be located within 50 feet of
an above ground utility line.
         (c)   Rotor size. All wind energy conversion system rotors shall not
have rotor dimensions greater than 26 feet.
         (d)   Rotor clearance. Blade-arcs created by the wind energy
conversion system shall have a minimum of 30 feet of clearance over any
structure or tree within a 200-foot radius.
         (e)   Rotor design. The blade design and materials are to be designed
and constructed to ensure safe operation in an urban/rural area.
         (f)   Rotor safety. Each wind energy conversion system shall be
equipped with both a manual and automatic braking device capable of stopping
wind energy conversion system operation in high wind (40 mph or greater) or in
conditions of imbalance.
         (g)   Lightning protection. Each wind energy conversion system shall
be grounded to protect against natural lightning strikes in conformance with
the National Electrical Code.
         (h)   Component compatibility. The wind turbine and wind turbine tower
are to be designed and constructed to be compatible.
         (i)   Tower access. To prevent unauthorized climbing, wind energy
conversion system towers must comply with one of the following provisions:
            1.   Tower climbing apparatus shall not be located within 12 feet
of the ground;
            2.   A locked anti-climb device shall be installed on the tower;
and
            3.   Tower capable of being climbed shall be enclosed by a locked,
protective fence at least eight feet high.
         (j)   Signs. Wind energy conversion systems shall have one sign, not
to exceed two square feet, at the base of the tower and the sign shall contain
the following information:
            1.   Warning high voltage;
            2.   Manufacturer’s name;
            3.   Emergency phone number; and
            4.   Emergency shutdown procedures.
         (k)   Lighting. Wind energy conversion systems shall not have affixed
or attached any lights, reflectors, flashers or any other illumination, except
for illumination devices required by Federal Aviation Administration
regulations codified at 14 C.F.R. Part 77.
         (l)   Electromagnetic interference. Wind energy conversion systems
shall be designed and constructed so as not to cause radio and television
interference.
         (m)   Noise emissions. Noises emanating from the operation of wind
energy conversion systems shall be in compliance with and regulated by the
State Pollution Control Standards, Minnesota Regulations NPC 1 and 2, as
amended.
      (2)   Safety.
         (a)   Compliance with building codes. Standard drawings of the
structural components of the wind energy conversion system and support
structures, including base and footings shall be provided along with the
engineering data and calculations to demonstrate compliance with the structural
design provisions of the State Building Code especially with regards to wind
and icing loads. Drawings and engineering calculations shall be certified by a
registered engineer.
         (b)   Compliance with electric code. All wind energy conversion
systems shall comply with the National Electrical Code.
         (c)   Manufacturer warranty. The applicant shall provide documentation
or other evidence from the dealer or manufacturer that the wind energy
conversion system has been successfully operated in atmospheric conditions
similar to the conditions within the city. The wind energy conversion system
shall be warranted against any system failures reasonably expected in severe
weather operation conditions.
      (3)   Approval.
         (a)   Permits. The erection, alteration, improvement, reconstruction
and movement of a wind energy conversion system requires a building permit from
the city.
         (b)   Utility notification. No wind energy conversion system shall be
interconnected with the local electrical utility company until the utility
company has commented upon the proposal. The owner may be required to enter
into a signed interconnection agreement with the utility prior to the issuance
of a building permit.
      (4)   Abandonment. If the wind energy conversion system remains
nonfunctional or inoperative for more than 18 consecutive months, the system
shall constitute a public nuisance. The owner shall obtain a demolition permit
and remove the abandoned system at his or her expense. Removal includes the
entire structure, including any transmission equipment.
      (5)   Inspection. The city hereby reserves the right upon issuing any
wind energy conversion system conditional use permit to inspect the premises on
which the wind energy conversion system is located. If a wind energy conversion
system is not maintained in operational condition and poses a potential safety
hazard, the owner shall upon written notice from the city, take expeditious
action to correct the situation.
      (6)   Installation. Wind energy conversion systems shall be installed
only by licensed contractors.
      (7)   Ornamental wind devices. Ornamental wind devices that are not a
wind energy conversion system, as defined by this chapter, shall be exempt from
the provisions of this section and shall conform to other applicable provisions
of this chapter and the city code.
(Ord. 296, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 156.64 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Application. Conditional use permits may be issued for any and only
the uses or purposes for which the permits are required or permitted by the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Application for the issuance of a conditional use permit shall be
made to the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission may hold hearings on
the proposal to issue a conditional use permit as it may consider necessary but
at least one public hearing shall be held on any such application. Notice shall
be given at least ten days in advance of the public hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city. The person or his or her agent making the
appeal or the request shall be notified by mail. Any party may appear in person
at the public hearing, or by agent or attorney. Following the hearing, the
Planning Commission shall make a report upon the proposal to the City Council
and shall recommend to the City Council whatever action it deems advisable.
      (2)   To defray administrative costs of processing of requests for
conditional use permits, a fee shall be paid by the applicant, the amount of
the fee to be determined by the City Council.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the report of the Planning Commission, the City
Council may hold whatever public hearings it deems advisable and shall make a
decision upon the request for a conditional use permit.
      (4)   Any use permitted under the terms of any conditional use permit
shall be established and conducted in conformity to the terms of the permit and
of any conditions designated in connection therewith.
   (C)   Findings. No conditional use shall be recommended by the City Planning
Commission unless the Commission shall find that:
      (1)   The conditional use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the immediate
vicinity;
      (2)   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of surrounding vacant property for uses
predominant in the area;
      (3)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided;
      (4)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide sufficient
off-street parking and loading space to serve the proposed use;
      (5)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to prevent or control
offensive odor, fumes, dust, noise and vibration, so that none of these will
constitute a nuisance, and to control lighted signs and other lights in such a
manner that no disturbance to neighboring properties will result.
   (D)   Conditions.
      (1)   The Planning Commission may recommend and the City Council may
designate conditions and require guarantees in the granting of a conditional
use permit.
      (2)   Conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Paving, shrubbery, screening, fences or walls;
         (b)   Control or elimination of smoke, dust, vibration, gas, noise or
odor;
         (c)   Hours of operation;
         (d)   Location of exits;
         (e)   Cleaning and painting;
         (f)   Elimination of nonconforming uses of land or nonconforming
signs;
         (g)   Direction and intensity of outdoor illumination;
         (h)   Off-street parking and loading; and
         (i)   The duration of approval of the conditional use, after which the
approval shall expire.
   (E)   Violation of conditions. Violations of conditions imposed by the
Council in conjunction with approval of a conditional use shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter and punishable under §
156.09 and §
10.99.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.65 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Discontinuance. In the event that a nonconforming use of any building
or premises is discontinued or its normal operation stopped for a period of one
year, the use of the same shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
   (B)   Alterations. 
      (1)   The lawful use of a building existing at the time of the adoption
of this chapter may be continued, although the use does not conform with the
provisions hereof. If no structural alterations are made, a nonconforming use
of a building may be changed to another nonconforming use of the same or more
restricted classification.
      (2)   The foregoing provisions shall also apply to nonconforming uses in
districts hereafter changed.
      (3)   Whenever a nonconforming use of a building has been changed to a
more restricted use or to a conforming use, the use shall not thereafter be
changed to a less restricted use.
   (C)   Restoration. If an owner does not apply for a building permit to
rebuild a building damaged by fire, explosion, act of God or the public enemy,
to the extent of more than 50% of its value, within 180 days, that building
shall not be restored except in conformity with the regulations of this
chapter.
   (D)   Residential alterations. Alterations may be made to a residential
building containing nonconforming residential units when they will improve the
livability of the units provided, however, that they do not increase the number
of dwelling units in the building.
   (E)   Normal maintenance.
      (1)   Maintenance of a building or other structure containing or used for
a nonconforming use may be permitted when it includes necessary non-structural
repairs and incidental alterations, which do not extend or intensify the
nonconforming building or use.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the placing of a structure in
safe condition when the structure is declared unsafe by the city.
(Ord. 266, passed 5- -2008)
§ 156.66 EROSION CONTROL.
   (A)   (1)   A property owner or contractor who removes substantial
vegetative growth for any reason including landscaping, excavates for a
building foundation or other purpose, or adds soil or other fill on property
within the city shall adhere to erosion control measure standards and
specifications contained in the Minnesota pollution control agency publication
Protecting Water Quality In Urban Areas, as may be amended, the city official
controls, any applicable water management plan of the city or other
governmental unit, and any other applicable state and federal regulations.
      (2)   Except as other measures are required by the above documents and
plans, property owners and contractors shall take the necessary precautions,
outlined below, to prevent soil erosion, damage to neighboring property and
control of surface water runoff. The city may impose additional erosion control
requirements if, in the opinion of the City Engineer, Building Inspector, City
Administrator or designee, said measures are necessary to protect neighboring
properties and manage surface water runoff.
   (B)   No land shall be developed and no use shall be permitted that results
in water run off, flooding or erosion on neighboring properties. The run off
shall be properly channeled into a storm drain, water course, ponding area or
other public facility. All new development shall include provision for storm
sewers, curbs and gutters along public streets.
   (C)   No land shall be developed and no use shall be permitted that results
in water run off causing flooding, erosion or deposit of minerals on
neighboring properties. The run off shall be properly channeled into a storm
drain, water course, ponding area or other public facilities. Any change in
grade affecting water run off onto a neighboring property must be as approved
by the City Engineer, Building Inspector, City Administrator or designee.
   (D)   Appropriate erosion control measures shall be taken throughout the
construction process. They include, but are not necessarily limited to, the use
of perimeter protection, inlet protection, wood fiber blankets, rock
construction entrances, seeding and/or mulch. Other techniques or combinations
of the above may be used. The erosion control measures shall be maintained and
repaired throughout construction and until such time as the property has been
either sodded or a 70% vegetative cover has taken hold. All temporary erosion
control devices including perimeter protection, inlet protection, gravel, hay
bales or other measures shall be removed from the construction site and
properly disposed of or recycled. This removal and disposal must occur within
30 days of the establishment of permanent vegetative cover on the disturbed
area.
   (E)   Erosion control may be specified by the City Engineer, Building
Inspector, City Administrator or designee, as part of a site survey for
individual building permits or other city approvals. Erosion control measures
may also be specified by the City Engineer, Building Inspector, City
Administrator or designee, as needed and deemed appropriate during the
construction and post construction periods for permitted or unpermitted
activities separate from the above.
   (F)   No dirt piles or soil banks shall remain exposed without a protective
cover to prevent erosion for a period longer than seven days. No soil surface
shall remain exposed without seeding, if allowed, or sodding or by mulching or
covering or other equivalent control measure for a period longer than seven
days. Seed shall be a blend of rye grass or other fast germinating seed in
addition to perennial grasses suitable for the soil and the exposure of the
area to sunlight. All seeded areas shall be mulched and disk anchored, or
covered with a fiber blanket, as necessary for erosion protection and seed
retention. The contractor should recognize that time is of the essence in
controlling erosion.
   (G)   Mud, dirt, or other sediment carried onto city streets, trails or
neighboring properties from the building site shall be removed by the property
owner and/or contractor prior to the close of each workday. If cleanup of the
mud, dirt or other sediment is not carried out as required above, the City
Administrator, or designee, may direct city crews and/or contract a third party
to complete the cleanup and bill the property owner or contractor for all
associated costs. Unpaid charges will be certified by the city for collection
with taxes and no city license, permit, or other approval shall be issued for
the property while any charge is outstanding.
   (H)   All on site stormwater conveyance channels shall be designed and
constructed to withstand the expected velocity of flow from a ten-year
frequency storm without erosion.
   (I)   Failure to comply with any of the above requirements will result in
the abatement of the noncompliance issue at the owner's expense and/ or the
issuance of a stop work order halting construction until the project area is
brought into compliance. Failure to remedy the situation within a reasonable
time determined by the City Engineer, Building Inspector, City Administrator or
designee, will result in the issuance of a citation for violation of this
subsection. Failure to have erosion control measures in place may also result
in denial of a certificate of occupancy for the structure under construction.
(Ord. 303, passed 9-19-2016)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   SALES AND PURCHASES OF PROPERTY
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   REZONING
      
V.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: SALES AND PURCHASES OF PROPERTY
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
127      - -1970     Sale of all that part of the southwest quarter of the
                     northwest quarter to Walter E. Lilly on conditions
184      11-7-1988   Sale of E 55 feet of N 60 feet of Lot 4 Auditor’s Plot #18
2019-03  11-18-2019  Sale of certain real property to Benny’s Powersports LLC
2023-06  - -         Sale of lots in the Crystal Gardens Subdivision
                    
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
84       6-4-1956    Extends corporate limits, includes Lots 1 and 2, except
                     the north 171 feet thereof
87       4-7-1958    Amends Ord. 84
89       9-8-1959    Includes all that part of the Northeast Quarter of the
                     Northwest Quarter of Section 6
90       5-18-1960   Extends corporate limits, includes land beginning at a
                     point 150 feet south of the northwest corner of Lot 3
95       8-6-1962    Extends corporate limits, includes land beginning at a
                     point 300 feet south of the northwest corner of Lot 3
96       4-3-1963    Extends corporate limits, includes land west 120 feet of
                     all that portion of Government Lot 1
104      4-5-1965    Extends corporate limits, includes all that part of
                     Government Lot 1
                     Extends corporate limits, includes land beginning at the
121      9-8-1969    center of the road running east and west on the south line
                     of the Northeast Quarter
189      8-6-1990    Extends corporate limits, includes part of Government Lot
                     6, Section 4
199      4-5-1993    Extends corporate limits, includes the west 40 acres of
                     Government Lot 6
217      1-11-1999   Annexes the south 291.71 feet of the west 408.71 feet of
                     Northwest Quarter
222      11-22-1999  Annexes real estate commencing at the northeast corner of
                     Section 33
226      12-4-2000   Annexes all that part of Government Lot 6
242      9-7-2004    Annexes county right-of-way Plat #16, Parcel B
245      9-19-2005   Annexes that part of the Southeast Quarter of the
                     Northeast Quarter
248      12-19-2005  Annexes that part of the Southeast Quarter of the
                     Northeast Quarter
275      11-2-2009   Annexes a 3.5-acre tract
276      4-5-2010    Amends Ord. 275
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
25       8-5-1903    Grants permission to Minnesota Valley Telephone and
                     Telegraph Co. to operate and maintain telephone system
                     Grants permission to Minnesota Valley Farmers Mutual
26       10-21-1903  Telephone Co., to construct, operate and maintain
                     telephone system
27       9-16-1904   Grants franchise to Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis and
                     Omaha Railroad Company
28       12-7-1904   Amends Ord. 27
29       1-4-1905    Grants franchise to Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis and
                     Omaha Railroad Company
75       10-2-1944   Grants franchise to Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis and
                     Omaha Railroad Company; Robinson Street
97       6-2-1964    Grants franchise to Minnesota Valley Natural Gas Company
170      5-7-1984    Grants franchise to Minnegasco, Inc. for sale of gas
                     energy
182      - -1987     Amends Ord. 178
178      9-8-1987    Grants franchise to North American Communications
                     Corporation for television service
232      8-5-2002    Grants franchise to Mediacom Minnesota, LLC., for cable
                     system
234      4-21-2003   Grants franchise to Benco for electric energy
235      4-21-2003   Franchise fees for Minnegasco, Inc. and Benco Cooperative;
                     energy services
238      5-5-2004    Grants franchise to Minnesota Electric Cooperative for
                     electric energy
239      5-5-2004    Grants franchise to Centerpoint Energy Minnegasco for gas
                     utility
254      6-19-2006   Grants franchise to Crystal Communications, Inc. for cable
                     service
287      - -2013     Grants franchise to Mediacom Minnesota LLC, for cable
                     service
291      4-21-2014   Grants franchise to Minnesota Electric Cooperative, for
                     electric energy
292      4-21-2014   Grants franchise to Centerpoint Energy Resources Corp.,
                     for gas
297      3-7-2016    Grants franchise to Consolidated Communications for cable
                     system
2023-03  - -2023     Grants franchise to Mediacom Minnesota, LLC for cable
                     system
                    
 
TABLE IV: REZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
166      2-7-1983    Rezones land from R Residence District to B-1 Limited
                     Business
181      - -1987     Rezones land to B-1 Limited Business
194      2-3-1992    Rezones land from I Industrial Zone to R Residence Zone
203      3-6-1995    Rezones land from R Residential District to B-1 Limited
                     Business District
230      - -2002     Rezones land from I Industrial to R Residential
244      6-6-2005    Rezones land from R-2 Residential to Business B-1
246      8-1-2005    Rezones land from R-2 Residential to B-1 Limited Business
                     District
268      7-21-2008   Rezones three areas, all to R-2 Residential
293      6-15-2015   Rezones many different parcels
304      10-3-2016   Rezones land from B-2 to R-2
2018-02  7-2-2018    Rezones 2 separate parcels from R-2 Residential to B-
                     1 Limited Business
2019-01  3-11-2019   Rezones land from R-2 Residential to B-1 Limited Business
2022-01  4-18-2022   Rezones two parcels from R-2 Residential to B-1 Limited
                     Business
2022-02  8-15-2022   Rezones 18 parcels from R-1 to R-2
                    
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
128   12-7-  Vacates part of Main Street
      1970
133   11-1-  Vacates May Street between Bert Street and Hunt Street
      1971
165   9-27-  Vacates an alley running east and west between Lots 9, 10, 11
      1982
243   4-4-   Vacates a portion of Logan Street
      2005
247   9-7-   Amends Ord. 243
      2005
262   7-2-   Vacates portion of Bert Street and a north-south alley on Cookson’s
      2007   Addition
272   6-15-  Vacates a portion of Murphy Street
      2009
2019- 10-7-  Vacates a portion of an alley in Block 1, Corporate Addition
02    2019
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Reference Code Section
M.S. Reference          Code Section
12.25                   33.01,
                        133.04
12.37                   33.06
18.88                   93.37
184B.01—184B.09       114.05
184B.02                 114.05
184B.03                 114.05
43A.11                  31.110
65B.48, Subd. 5         73.04
88.02—88.22           92.05
88.75                   92.05
88.76                   92.05
93.44—93.51           154.008
103F                    153.001
103G                    154.001
103G.005                154.008
103G.245                154.051
115.01, Subd. 8         52.01
115.07                  52.01
116D                    156.60
116.06, Subd. 8         92.01
                        96.20,
116.202                 96.22,
                        96.23
144.411—144.417       97.03,
                        97.04
168.03, Subd. 1e        71.09
168B                    98.03
168B.011, Subd. 3       93.07
169.011                 71.03
169.045                 73.01
169.345, Subd. 2        73.02
169.522                 73.08
169.999                 10.98
169A.20                 111.04
169A.27                 111.04
171.02                  73.02
184B.01—184B.09       114.05
184B.02                 114.05
184B.03                 114.05
197.46                  31.110
205.065, Subd. 1        30.04
205.07, Subd. 1         30.03
216B.1641               156.05
243.166                 133.02
243.167                 133.05
244.052, Subd. 3(i)     133.05
272.67                  156.43
297F.01, Subd. 3        113.01
307.08                  154.008
326B.101—326B.16      150.40
326B.118                150.41,
                        150.42
326B.133                150.41
326B.136                150.17
326B.139                150.24
326B.148                150.42
340A                    111.01,
                        111.02
340A.24                 111.04,
                        111.09
340A.101                111.03
340A.409                111.04,
                        111.11
340A.502                111.04
340A.503                111.04
340A.503, Subd. 1(a)(1) 130.01
340A.509                111.02
343.31                  90.18
346.155                 90.03
346.36, Subd. 6         90.18
346.40                  90.13
346.41                  90.13
346.42                  90.13
347.50—347.565        90.11
347.51                  90.11
347.515                 90.11,
                        90.12
347.52                  90.11
347.52(a)               90.11
347.52(c)               90.11
347.54                  90.12
349                     111.15,
                        112.02
349.12, Subd. 2         112.04
349.12, Subd. 11        112.06
349.17, Subd. 7         112.12
349.19                  112.12
349.21                  112.08
363A                    31.110
366.011                 31.119
366.012                 31.119
412.221, Subd. 17       31.110
412.241                 31.110
415.01                  31.119
429                     93.41
429.061                 93.10
429.101                 93.10,
                        93.41
437.07                  114.02
461.12                  113.99
                        153.001,
462                     154.008,
                        154.022
462.354, Subd. 2        151.05
462.357, Subd. 6        151.05
462.358                 155.02
462.359, Subd. 4        151.05
469.090—469.108       31.030
469.190                 116.14
471.88                  31.042
500.30                  156.62
                        154.089,
505                     155.09,
                        155.47
505.021                 154.087
609.21                  111.04
609.205(4)              90.11
609.226, Subd. 1        90.11
626.84                  90.13
626.84, Subd. 1(e)      31.099
626.862                 10.20
631.48                  10.99
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2        10-10-1887  132.01
24       10-8-1902   96.01
25       8-5-1903    TSO III
26       10-21-1903  TSO III
27       9-16-1904   TSO III
28       12-7-1904   TSO III
29       1-4-1905    TSO III
40       1-5-1914    96.03
56       11-2-1925   96.04
75       10-2-1944   TSO III
76       1-2-1945    96.05
84       6-4-1956    TSO II
87       4-7-1958    TSO II
89       9-8-1959    TSO II
90       5-18-1960   TSO II
92       9-18-1961   30.03
93       9-18-1961   30.04
95       8-6-1962    TSO II
96       4-3-1963    TSO II
97       6-2-1964    TSO III
104      4-5-1965    TSO II
112      - -1966     31.015—
                     31.017
121      9-8-1969    TSO II
122      9-8-1969    96.02
127      - -1970     TSO I
128      12-7-1970   TSO V
133      11-1-1971   TSO V
134A     2-7-1972    51.01—
                     51.12
144      - -1975     93.35—
                     93.45
145      - -1975     93.60—
                     93.63
160      - -1980     94.15—
                     94.26
                     155.01—
                     155.12,
                     155.25—
163      - -1981     155.32,
                     155.45—
                     155.47,
                     155.60—
                     155.64
165      9-27-1982   TSO V
166      2-7-1983    TSO IV
168      9-12-1983   94.24
170      5-7-1984    TSO III
172      8-6-1984    112.01—
                     112.15
174      1-7-1985    52.01—
                     52.17
                     52.01,
177      12-1-1986   52.30—
                     52.38
181      - -1987     TSO IV
182      - -1987     TSO III
178      9-8-1987    TSO III
180      9-8-1987    72.01—
                     72.06
184      11-7-1988   TSO I
187      8-6-1990    30.05
188      8-6-1990    94.25
189      8-6-1990    TSO II
191      10-1-1990   50.01—
                     50.05
192      5-6-1991    30.02
194      2-3-1992    TSO IV
                     154.001—
                     154.008,
                     154.020—
                     154.023,
                     154.035,
                     154.036,
195      2-3-1992    154.050—
                     154.056,
                     154.070—
                     154.072,
                     154.085—
                     154.090,
                     154.105—
                     154.111
                     153.001—
                     153.016,
                     153.030,
                     153.031,
                     153.045—
                     153.048,
197      10-5-1992   153.060—
                     153.063,
                     153.075—
                     153.082,
                     153.095—
                     153.098,
                     153.110—
                     153.118
199      4-5-1993    TSO II
203      3-6-1995    TSO IV
                     111.03—
208      8-5-1996    111.08,
                     111.10—
                     111.16
213      1-5-1998    74.01—
                     74.10
214      1-5-1998    111.04
                     152.01—
221      - -1999     152.03,
                     156.42
216      1-4-1999    31.055—
                     31.060
217      1-11-1999   TSO II
219      9-20-1999   131.01—
                     131.07
222      11-22-1999  TSO II
223      12- -1999   70.01
226      12-4-2000   TSO II
227      12-4-2000   111.12
228      - -2001     92.01—
                     92.07
                     71.01—
229      - -2001     71.17,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. I
230      - -2002     TSO IV
232      8-5-2002    TSO III
234      4-21-2003   TSO III
235      4-21-2003   TSO III
236      6-2-2003    150.40—
                     150.43
237      7-7-2003    94.01—
                     94.04
238      5-5-2004    TSO III
239      5-5-2004    TSO III
240      - -2004     111.13
241      6-7-2004    95.01—
                     95.06
242      9-7-2004    TSO II
243      4-4-2005    TSO V
244      6-6-2005    TSO IV
246      8-1-2005    TSO IV
247      9-7-2005    TSO V
245      9-19-2005   TSO II
248      12-19-2005  TSO II
249      1-18-2006   30.01
253      5-1-2006    30.06
254      6-19-2006   TSO III
258      6-4-2007    155.46
262      7-2-2007    TSO V
263      7-16-2007   92.05
                     156.01—
                     156.09,
                     156.20—
266      5- -2008    156.23,
                     156.35—
                     156.42,
                     156.55—
                     156.65
264      5-5-2008    150.01—
                     150.04
265      5-5-2008    151.01—
                     151.15
267      7-7-2008    90.06
268      7-21-2008   TSO IV
269      10-6-2008   150.15—
                     150.25
270      5-4-2009    111.12
271      5-4-2009    111.04
272      6-15-2009   TSO V
275      11-2-2009   TSO II
278      - -2010     94.18
276      4-5-2010    TSO II
277      6-21-2010   Ch. 76, Sch. I
279      10-12-2010  31.070—
                     31.083
280      6-6-2011    151.01,
                     151.06
284      10-3-2011   130.01
285      7-2-2012    50.20—
                     50.24
282      7-16-2012   156.59
                     73.01—
286      10-1-2012   73.09,
                     73.99
287      - -2013     TSO III
288      8-26-2013   31.001—
                     31.004
289      1-6-2014    96.20—
                     96.25
291      4-21-2014   TSO III
292      4-21-2014   TSO III
293      6-15-2015   TSO IV
294      10-5-2015   133.01—
                     133.07
295      2-1-2016    156.56
                     156.05,
296      3-7-2016    156.62,
                     156.63
297      3-7-2016    TSO III
298      3-7-2016    156.43
                     113.01—
299      6-20-2016   113.10 ,
                     113.99
                     97.01—
300      6-6-2016    97.05,
                     97.99
                     115.01—
301      8-1-2016    115.09,
                     115.99
303      9-19-2016   156.66
304      10-3-2016   TSO IV
305      11-7-2016   92.02
                     91.01—
306      3-20-2017   91.18,
                     91.99
308      3-20-2017   Adopting Ordinance
2017-01  5-1-2017    156.21
2017-02  7-24-2017   111.01—
                     111.16
                     98.01—
2017-03  8-21-2017   98.03,
                     98.99
2017-05  10-16-2017  156.59
                     73.01—
2017-06  10-16-2017  73.09,
                     73.99
2017-07  12-18-2017  73.02
2018-02  7-2-2018    TSO IV
2018-03  8-6-2018    31.119
2018-04  9-17-2018   71.09
2019-01  3-11-2019   TSO IV
2019-02  10-7-2019   TSO V
2019-03  11-18-2019  TSO I
2020-01  2-18-2020   156.59
                     93.01—
2020-04  9-21-2020   93.10,
                     93.99
2021-03  6-21-2021   71.12
2022-01  4-18-2022   TSO IV
2022-02  8-15-2022   TSO IV
2022-04  - -         90.04,
                     90.99
2023-01  3-6-2023    155.13
2023-02  5-15-2023   31.220—
                     31.222
2023-03  - -2023     TSO III
2023-04  6-5-2023    50.30
                     116.01—
2023-05  6-5-2023    116.15,
                     116.99
2023-06  - -         TSO I
                    
 
