LAKELAND, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-10 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-28, passed 12-17-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS OF LAKELAND, MINNESOTA
CITY COUNCIL
 
Robert Craggs Mayor
David Millard Council Member
Geri Wagner   Council Member
Erika Rivers  Council Member
Canaan Martin Council Member
 
ADMINISTRATION
 
David Snyder, Johnson and Turner Consulting City Attorney
Michelle Elsner                  City Clerk
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 7516
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF LAKELAND, MINNESOTA,
AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF LAKELAND DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
   WHEREAS, Minnesota Statutes §§ 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to
cause its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book,
   NOW THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Lakeland, Minnesota ordains:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified, and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are adopted and shall constitute the
Code of Ordinances of the City of Lakeland. This Code of Ordinances also
adopts, by reference, certain statutes and administrative rules of the State of
Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
   Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles:
            TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
               10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
            TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
               30.   City Government
               31.   City Committees and Organizations
               32.   City Policies
               33.   Fee Schedule
            TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
               50.   Garbage and Solid Waste
               51.   Solar Energy Systems and Solar Structures
               52.   Water Regulations
            TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
               70.   Traffic Regulations
               71.   Parking Regulations
               72.   Recreational Vehicles
            TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
               90.   Animals
               91.   Fire Prevention and Safety
               92.   Public Parks and Recreation
               93.   Health and Sanitation; Environment; Nuisances
               94.   Alarm Systems
               95.   Communications Equipment
            TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
               110.   Business Licensing
               111.   Pawnbrokers
               112.   Peddlers and Solicitors
               113.   Alcohol Regulations
               114.   Tobacco Regulations
               115.   Licensing and Regulation of Adult Uses
            TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
               130.   Public Safety Offenses
            TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
               150.   General Regulations
               151.   hazardous and Substandard Buildings
               152.   Soil Management
               153.   Water Drainage
               154.   Floodplain Regulations
               155.   Lower St. Croix River Bluffland and Shoreland Management
Regulations
               156.   Mining Regulations
               157.   Individual Sewage Treatment system Regulations
               158.   Subdivision Regulations
               159.   Zoning Regulations
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to subjects treated in the Code
of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in part
in the Code of Ordinances; provided this repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred, or any right established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes; appropriating money; annexing or detaching territory;
establishing franchises; granting special rights to certain persons;
authorizing public improvements; authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money; authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property;
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use; or
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of Ordinances.
All fees established in prior ordinances shall remain in effect unless amended
in this Code of Ordinances, or until an ordinance adopting a fee schedule is
adopted or amended.
   Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a
sufficient publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously
published in the city's official newspaper. The City Clerk shall cause a
substantial quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general
distribution to the public at actual cost, and shall furnish a copy of the Code
of Ordinances to the County Law Library or its designated depository. The
official copy of this Code of Ordinances shall be marked and be kept in the
office of the City Clerk.
   Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of
the law of the city and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the courts of the State of Minnesota.
   Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the
City's official newspaper.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Lakeland this 20th day
of October, 2009.
                              APPROVED:
                               /s/ Brian Zeller
                              Brian Zeller, Mayor
ATTESTED:
/s/ Chris Wallberg
Chris Wallberg, City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
   
10.21   Joint authority
 
   
10.98   Administrative citations and civil penalties
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the City of
Lakeland, as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into
component codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated
as the "city code," for which designation "code of ordinances," "codified
ordinances," or "code" may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as presently
established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a
future time. The term CITY when used in this code may also be used to refer to
the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This Lakeland Municipal Code,
as modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Lakeland.
      COUNTY. The County of Washington, State of Minnesota.
      GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of the City of Lakeland.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Tangible or intangible, real, personal, or mixed property.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK.  That portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      STREET.  Any public way, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, alley, or
other public thoroughfare. Each of these words shall include the others and, if
the context permits, shall also include "sidewalks."
(Prior Code, § 103.01)
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
   (C)   Other definitions.  Certain chapters of this code contain other
definitions applicable particularly to these chapters. In case of any conflict
between the definitions in division (B) of this section and the other
definitions, the other definitions shall prevail in the chapters where
applicable.
(Prior Code, § 103.02)
    (D)   Minnesota definitions to apply.  Unless clearly in conflict with
definitions or other provisions of this code, or otherwise clearly
inapplicable, definitions established for the State of Minnesota by statutes or
case law shall apply to this municipal code.
(Prior Code, § 103.03)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in 1 section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk
for public inspection. The Clerk shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable
charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code, all
future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes adopted by
reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this code
was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Sheriff's Department shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk shall have the authority to administer and enforce this
code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the code or by the Clerk or City Council shall have the
authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and any
person or persons designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk and any city official or employee designated by this
code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may with the
permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident of
a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk, Sheriff's Department, or any employee or official charged with the duty
of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of
property within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or
entrance to the property by the City Clerk or any other authorized city officer
or employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection
of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all
permits, licenses, or city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be
given to the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the
property, stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner,
resident, or other person in control of the property shall be given an
opportunity to appear before the City Clerk to object to the termination before
it occurs, subject to appeal of the Clerk's decision to the City Council at a
regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare.
§ 10.21 JOINT AUTHORITY.
   Words importing joint authority to 3 or more persons shall be construed as
authority to a majority of such persons.
(1980 Code, § 102.05)
§ 10.98 ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS AND CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Purpose. The City Council finds that there is a need for alternative
methods of enforcing this code. While criminal fines and penalties have been
the most frequent enforcement mechanism, there are certain negative
consequences for both the city and the accused. The delay inherent in that
system does not ensure prompt resolution. Citizens resent being labeled as
criminals for violations of administrative regulations. The higher burden of
proof and the potential of incarceration do not appear appropriate for most
administrative violations. The criminal process does not always regard code
violations as being important. Accordingly, the City Council finds that the use
of administrative citations and the imposition of civil penalties is a
legitimate and necessary alternative method of enforcement. This method of
enforcement shall be in addition to any other legal remedy which may be pursued
for code violations.
(Prior Code, § 104.01)
   (B)   General provisions. The City Clerk is given authority to determine
whether an administrative offence has occurred and whether an administrative
citation is to be issued.
      (1)   An administrative offence may be subject to civil penalty not
exceeding $2,000.
      (2)   The City Council must adopt by ordinance a schedule of fines for
offenses initiated by administrative citation. The City Council is not bound by
that schedule when a matter is appealed to it for administrative review.
      (3)   The City Council must adopt procedures for administering the
administrative citation program.
(Prior Code, § 104.02)
   (C)   Administrative citation.
      (1)   The City Clerk or the City Clerk's designee may issue an
administrative citation upon belief that a violation has occurred. The citation
must be issued in person or by mail to the person responsible for the
violation. The citation must state the date, time, and nature of the offense,
the amount of the scheduled fine, and the manner for paying the fine or
appealing the citation.
      (2)   The following city individuals may issue citation in lieu of arrest
for violation of this code. Areas of jurisdiction will be contained in city
policy as set forth in resolution form by the City Council:
         (a)   Zoning Administrator; and
         (b)   Building Inspector.
      (3)   The person responsible for the violation must either pay the
scheduled fine or request a hearing within 10 days after issuance, with a
hearing held by the City Council at its next scheduled meeting. Payment of the
fine constitutes admission of the violation. A late payment fee of 10% of the
scheduled fine amount shall be imposed in accordance with division (F) of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 104.03)
   (D)   Administrative review.  An aggrieved party may obtain administrative
review of the decision.
(Prior Code, § 104.04)
   (E)   Judicial review. An aggrieved party may obtain judicial review of the
decision of the City Council in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 104.05)
   (F)   Recovery of civil penalties.
      (1)   If a civil penalty is not paid within the time specified, it shall
constitute:
         (a)   A lien upon the real property upon which the violation occurred
if the property or improvement on the property was the subject of the violation
and the property owner was found responsible for the violation; or
         (b)   A personal obligation of the violator in all other situations.
      (2)   A lien may be assessed against the property and collected in the
same manner as taxes.
      (3)   A personal obligation may be collected by any appropriate legal
means.
      (4)   A late payment fee of 10% of the fine must be assessed for each 30-
day period, or part thereof, that the fine remains unpaid after the due date.
      (5)   Failure to pay a fine is grounds for suspending or revoking a
permit associated with the violation.
(Prior Code, § 104.06)
   (G)   Criminal penalties. The following are misdemeanors, punishable in
accordance with the state law: Failure to pay a fine imposed by the City
Council within 30 days after it was imposed, or such other time as may be
established by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 104.07)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
Editor's note:
   The contents of this division (A) was included in the prior code of
ordinances as § 104.08 and amended by Ord. 7487, passed 7-18-2000, and Res.
2000-6, passed 7-18-2000.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm, or corporation fails to comply with any provision
of this code, the Council or any city official designated by it may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct, or abate the
violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   CITY GOVERNMENT
         
31.   CITY COMMITTEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
         
32.   CITY POLICIES
         
33.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: CITY GOVERNMENT
Section
Elections
   
30.01   Voter registration
   
30.02   Election date
Form of Government
   
30.15   Government structure
   
30.16   Mayor and Council
Conduct and Procedure of City Council
   
30.30   Regular sessions
   
30.31   Chairperson
   
30.32   City Council appointments
   
30.33   Special meetings
   
30.34   Emergency meetings
   
30.35   Executive sessions
   
30.36   Council meetings and rules of procedure
Miscellaneous
   
30.50   City records
   
30.51   Indebtedness, claims, and orders
   
30.52   Salaries
Cross-reference:
   Council Commissions, see
Chapter 31 of this code of ordinances
ELECTIONS
§ 30.01 VOTER REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration system. The system for the permanent registration of
voters provided for by M.S. Chapter 201, as it may be amended from time to
time, is hereby adopted and made part of this chapter by reference as if fully
set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 201.01)
   (B)   Voters must be registered.  No person shall be permitted to vote at
any election in the city unless that person is registered as provided by
Minnesota Statutes.
(Prior Code, § 201.02)
§ 30.02 ELECTION DATE.
   The regular city election for the city shall be held biennially on the same
day as the general election for state and national offices.
(Prior Code, § 202.01)
FORM OF GOVERNMENT
§ 30.15 GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE.
   The City of Lakeland has been incorporated as a statutory city and operates
under M.S. Chapter 412, as it may be amended from time to time, commonly known
as the Statutory Cities Code, and under a number of other statutes that apply
to all cities.
(Prior Code, § 203.01) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 30.16 MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall consist of the Mayor and 4 City Council members.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected by vote of the residents of the city, for a
2-year term, expiring December 31 following the next general election.
   (B)   The 4 City Council members shall be elected to 4-year terms of office.
The Council members' office terms shall be staggered so that 2 Council offices
are open for election every 2 years.
   (C)   In the case of vacancy on the City Council, a resolution shall be
adopted by the City Council declaring a vacancy. The seat shall be filled as
required by law.
   (D)   Each City Council member shall be appointed by the Mayor at the first
meeting in January of each year to a Commission position, i.e., public safety,
streets and personnel.
(Prior Code, § 204.01) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
CONDUCT AND PROCEDURE OF CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.30 REGULAR SESSIONS.
   The City Council shall have regular sessions on the third Tuesday of every
month of each calendar year. Regular meeting times may be established or
changed from time to time by resolution of the City Council. The first meeting
of the year shall be held on the third Tuesday in January unless that date
shall be a holiday, in which event the meeting shall be held on the following
Tuesday. If subsequent regular meetings shall fall on a holiday, they shall
also be held on the following Tuesday.
(Prior Code, § 205.01) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006; Am. Ord. 7527, passed
6-21-2011)
§ 30.31 CHAIRPERSON.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council. In the absence of
the Mayor, the Acting Mayor shall preside. In the absence of both, the City
Council shall elect 1 of their numbers as temporary Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 205.02) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 30.32 CITY COUNCIL APPOINTMENTS.
   The City Council may appoint members of the community, City Council members,
or Planning Commission members to serve as the city's representative to boards,
committees, or organizations as needed or required (i.e., Water Management
Organization, Fire District Board, and Cable Commission).
(Prior Code, § 205.04) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 30.33 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or any 2 members of the
City Council in writing, filed with the City Clerk and posted at least 3 days
(72 hours) prior to the time specified for the meeting, as required by law. The
Clerk shall then mail a notice to all members of the time and place of meeting
at least 1 day (24 hours) before the meeting, including the purpose of the
meeting if the purpose be stated in the call filed with the Clerk. In addition
to the notice mailed, the Clerk shall also attempt to notify each member of the
meeting, by telephone or in person, and shall immediately post notice of the
meeting.
   (B)   Any special meeting attended by all City Council members shall be a
regular meeting for the transaction of any business that may come before the
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 205.05) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 30.34 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   Meetings may be held by the City Council in the manner prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 205.06) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 30.35 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   The City Council may by law go into executive closed session to discuss the
following:
   (A)   Labor negotiations;
   (B)   Non-public data under the Data Practices Act, being M.S. Chapter 13,
as it may be amended from time to time;
   (C)   Misconduct allegations or charges;
   (D)   Performance evaluations;
   (E)   Attorney-client privilege;
   (F)   Purchase or sale of real or personal property; and
   (G)   Security reports.
(Prior Code, § 205.07) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 30.36 COUNCIL MEETINGS AND RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   All city meetings for the city shall be procedurally governed under the
effective edition of Robert's Rules of Order. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the City Council may, unless otherwise specified by law, at any time through
affirmative vote of a majority of the Council then in attendance suspend
Robert's Rules of Order in application to any matter pending before it.
(Prior Code, § 205.10) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 30.50 CITY RECORDS.
   None of the city records shall be removed from the office of the City Clerk
except when required at City Council meetings or hearings, or by express order
of a majority of the Council members. These records shall be available for
inspection at all times in the office of the City Clerk, by appointment on
advance request reasonably made.
(Prior Code, § 205.08) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 30.51 INDEBTEDNESS, CLAIMS, AND ORDERS.
   (A)   The city will not be responsible for any indebtedness whatsoever
incurred by city officials unless proper authority has first been obtained from
the City Council.
   (B)   All charges against the city must be submitted on the approved claim
form, the work done itemized, material furnished described as to type,
quantities, and unit price, and on services rendered, the time, and basis of
pay given. Claim forms must be properly signed by claimant. Routine claims, or
claims covered by contract previously entered into, may be paid by the city
officers at any time subject to ratification by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 205.09) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 30.52 SALARIES.
   (A)   The Mayor of the city and each City Council member shall receive a
monthly stipend, which amount can be changed from time to time by ordinance by
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 206.01)
   (B)   The salaries provided by this section shall be paid annually or more
frequently as directed by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 206.02)
   (C)   In the case of an illness or extended leave of absence that requires
the City Council member to be away from that member's position for a period of
more than 2 months consecutively, there shall be no monthly pay given for the
absent period.
(Prior Code, § 206.03) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
CHAPTER 31: CITY COMMITTEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Council Commissions
   
31.02   Vacancies
   
31.03   Reports
   
31.04   Duty in general
Planning Commission
   
31.15   Establishment
   
31.16   Composition
   
31.17   Meetings
   
31.18   Duties
Building Department
   
31.30   Creation of Department
   
31.31   Powers and duties of Building Official
   
31.32   Inspectors
   
31.33   Conflict of interest
   
31.34   Reports and records
   
31.35   Right of entry
   
31.36   Stop orders
   
31.37   Occupancy violations
   
31.38   Liability
   
31.39   Cooperation of other officials
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 COUNCIL COMMISSIONS.
   The following Commissions shall be established as Standing Committees, with
obligations and responsibilities to include:
   (A)   Emergency Response, Public Health and Safety.  
      (1)   Coordinate and serve as liaison with local, county, state, and
federal agencies regarding civil defense and homeland security issues;
      (2)   Liaison for law enforcement and Fire Department services; and
      (3)   Provide oversight of complaints and safety issues as required.
   (B)   Parks, Playgrounds, Bike Trail, and Beaches. Oversee parks/
playgrounds/bike trail/beach (including maintenance, improvements, scheduling,
and the like).
   (C)   Public Buildings, Building and Planning. Work with city staff on
oversight of public buildings and property and planning for general city
improvements (including streets, Building Department and Public Works
Department). The granting of building permits and the function of inspection
may be assigned by the Council to an appointive officer or regulatory body who
shall have authority to issue permits subject to Council approval and
ratification.
   (D)   Staff/Personnel.
      (1)   Chair of the Personnel Committee, made up of representatives of the
Planning Commission and a member or members of the City Council as determined
by the Council.
      (2)   Address matters, establish policies and make recommendations
regarding personnel issues (including salaries, position descriptions, hiring/
dismissal, and the like) as directed by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 205.03) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006; Am. Ord. 7522, passed
7-20-2010)
§ 31.02 VACANCIES.
   Should a vacancy occur during a term of office, the new Council member
shall, for the unexpired part of the year, assume the duties of the Council
member being replaced. When deemed necessary by the City Council, the Council
shall appoint Special Committees to assist the Mayor or Council on special
tasks.
(Prior Code, § 205.03) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 31.03 REPORTS.
   Upon completion of assignments, City Council members and Special Committees
shall submit a written report to the Council, and upon its acceptance the
report and all papers pertaining to the work of the Committee or Council member
in question shall be filed with the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 205.03) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 31.04 DUTY IN GENERAL.
   It shall be the duty of the Commissioners and Committees to act promptly and
faithfully in all matters referred to them and to make their reports at the
next meeting of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 205.03) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Lakeland City Council hereby designates the City Council as a whole as the
city's Planning Commission for the city.
(Prior Code, § 207.01) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006; Am. Ord. 7545, passed
5-19-2015)
§ 31.16 COMPOSITION.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of 5 members as follows: the Mayor and
four City Council Members. The Mayor shall serve as Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 207.02) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006; Am. Ord. 7545, passed
5-19-2015)
§ 31.17 MEETINGS.
   The Planning Commission may meet at least once a month at the call of the
Chairperson and/or City Clerk. The Planning Commission shall keep records of
its transactions, minutes, and findings, which records shall be public.
(Prior Code, § 207.03) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006; Am. Ord. 7545, passed
5-19-2015)
§ 31.18 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consider and make decisions on all
matters affecting zoning, subdivision, building regulations and land use
development as provided by law.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall carry on city planning activities and
make planning decisions for the regulation of the future physical development
of the city, including land use and building construction.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall consider and make decisions related to
other issues, projects, and general city matters.
(Prior Code, § 207.04) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006; Am. Ord. 7520, passed
2-16-2010; Am. Ord. 7545, passed 5-19-2015)
BUILDING DEPARTMENT
§ 31.30 CREATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby established in the municipality the Building Department
which shall be under the jurisdiction of the Building Official designated by
resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 208.01) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 31.31 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all the
provisions of the Minnesota State Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 208.02) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 31.32 INSPECTORS.
   In accordance with the procedure and with the approval of the City Council,
the Building Official may appoint a number of inspectors and other employees as
shall be authorized from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 208.03) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 31.33 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Neither the Building Official nor any inspectors shall have any financial
interest in any inspection project within the city's jurisdiction in which the
Official or inspector is charged with overseeing.
(Prior Code, § 208.04) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 31.34 REPORTS AND RECORDS.
   The Building Official shall submit a report to the City Council not less
than once a year, covering the work of the Department during the preceding
period. The Building Official shall keep a permanent, accurate account of all
fees and other monies collected and received, the names of the persons upon
whose account the same were paid, the date and the amount thereof, together
with the location of the building or premises to which they relate.
(Prior Code, § 208.05) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 31.35 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Official or that
Official's duly authorized representative may enter at reasonable times any
building, structure, or premises in the city to perform any duty imposed upon
that Official by the Code. No person shall interfere with the Building Official
or that Official's duly authorized representatives in the execution of their
duties.
(Prior Code, § 208.06) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 31.36 STOP ORDERS.
   Whenever any building work is being done contrary to the provisions of the
Building Code, the Building Official may order the work stopped by notice in
writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing the work to be
done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop the work until authorized by
the Building Official to proceed with the work.
(Prior Code, § 208.07) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 31.37 OCCUPANCY VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever any structure is being used contrary to the provisions of the
Building Code, the Building Official may order the use discontinued and the
structure, or portion thereof, vacated by notice served on any person causing
the use to be continued. The person shall discontinue the use within 10 days
after receipt of the notice or make the structure, or portion thereof, comply
with the requirements of the Code; provided, however, that in the event of an
unsafe building,
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 208.08) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 31.38 LIABILITY.
   The Building Official or any employee charged with the enforcement of the
Code, acting in good faith and without malice for the city in the discharge of
that individual's duties, shall not thereby render that individual liable
personally, and that individual is hereby relieved from all personal liability
for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act
required or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of that
individual's duties. Any suit brought against the Building Official or
employer, because of the act or omission performed by that individual in the
enforcement of any provisions of the Code, shall be defended by the city until
final termination of the proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 208.09) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 31.39 COOPERATION OF OTHER OFFICIALS.
   The Building Official may request, and shall receive so far as may be
necessary in the discharge of that Official's duties, the assistance and
cooperation of the other officials of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 208.10) (Am. Ord. 7508, passed 12-19-2006)
CHAPTER 32: CITY POLICIES
Section
Charges for Ambulance, Medical and Related Services; Policy and Procedures
   
32.01   Purpose and intent
   
32.02   Definition of terms
   
32.03   Parties affected
   
32.04   Rates
   
32.05   Billing and collection
   
32.06   Mutual aid agreements
   
32.07   Application of collections to budget
CHARGES FOR AMBULANCE, MEDICAL AND RELATED SERVICES; POLICY AND PROCEDURES
§ 32.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This subchapter is adopted for the purpose of establishing that the city
will charge for all ambulance, medical, and related service calls as allowed by
M.S. § 415.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1301.010) (Ord. 7503, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 32.02 DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBULANCE, MEDICAL AND RELATED SERVICE CALLS (SERVICE CALLS). Any deployment
of firefighting or emergency medical technician (EMT) or similar personnel and/
or equipment to provide: ambulance, medical, or related services, the
performance of any preventative measure in an effort to provide any medical
related services as may occasionally occur.
(Prior Code, § 1301.020) (Ord. 7503, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 32.03 PARTIES AFFECTED.
   Parties affected include the following:
   (A)   City residents who receive ambulance, medical, and related service
calls;
   (B)   Township residents who receive ambulance, medical, or related service
and whose township has entered into a service contract with the city; and
   (C)   All ambulance, medical, and related service calls where persons
receiving service are either not residents of the city or residents of
townships served by a service contract with the City of Lakeland.
(Prior Code, § 1301.030) (Ord. 7503, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 32.04 RATES.
   (A)   The Lower St. Croix Valley Fire District rates effective for the year
of service shall apply.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall keep on file at City Hall the current rates
charged by the Lower St. Croix Valley District.
(Prior Code, § 1301.040) (Ord. 7503, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 32.05 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Parties receiving ambulance, medical, or related services will be
billed directly by the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire District within 30 days of
the service call. If the party receiving the service does not initiate the
contact for service, but a fire or other situation exists which, at the
discretion of the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire District personnel in charge,
requires such services and qualifies as an ambulance, medical, or related
service call as defined in §
32.02, that party will be charged for the call.
   (B)   The city will use all practical and reasonable legal means to collect
billed service calls. The party receiving the service shall be liable for all
costs of collection incurred by the city, including but not limited to
reasonable attorney fees and court costs. The city, as permitted by M.S. §
366.012, as it may be amended from time to time, may collect unpaid charges
against the recipient's property taxes.
   (C)   Billing may be directed to the insurance carrier as a reasonable
effort by the city to assist the party who received the service. Any billable
amount of the call not covered by a party's applicable insurance remains a debt
of the party receiving service. Any bill not collected will be reviewed by City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 1301.050) (Ord. 7503, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 32.06 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS.
   On such calls where the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire District provides mutual
aid to another city Police Department, Fire Department or ambulance service,
the associated billing will be determined by the mutual aid agreement with that
city.
(Prior Code, § 1301.060) (Ord. 7503, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 32.07 APPLICATION OF COLLECTIONS TO BUDGET.
   All revenues generated by paid billable calls will be used to offset the
expenses of the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire District.
(Prior Code, § 1301.070) (Ord. 7503, passed 7-20-2004)
CHAPTER 33: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
33.01   Fees
   
33.02    Master Fee Schedule
33.01 FEES.
   (A)   The City of Lakeland is authorized to impose fees, rates, or charges;
and the same shall be enumerated in the Master Fee Schedule, without exception.
(Prior Code, § 511.01) (Am. Ord. 7511, passed 12-18-2007)
   (B)   The City of Lakeland is authorized to require escrow deposits in
addition to application fees; and the same shall be enumerated in the Master
Fee Schedule, without exception.
(Prior Code, § 511.02) (Am. Ord. 7511, passed 12-18-2007)
   (C)   (1)   Escrow deposits will provide the city necessary cash in an
amount estimated to be adequate to secure all city out-of-pocket expenses
including by not limited to attorneys fees, engineering fees, planning fees,
etc. to complete the project.
      (2)   When less than 25% of the original escrow remains, the applicant
will be required to renew the escrow to 100% of the required escrow amount, and
the project will be suspended until additional funds have been submitted.
      (3)   Any unused funds shall be returned to the applicant when all work
is complete.
(Prior Code, § 511.03) (Am. Ord. 7511, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 33.02 MASTER FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fees for all services, permits, licenses, and related matters are set
forth in the Master Fee Schedule, a copy of which is available at City Hall
during normal business hours or via the city’s website. The official Master Fee
Schedule, which is amended from time to time by resolution, is hereby
incorporated into this code by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GARBAGE AND SOLID WASTE
         
51.   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS AND SOLAR STRUCTURES
         
52.   WATER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Purpose
   
50.03   License required
   
50.04   Duties and obligations of licensed holders
   
50.05   Regulations; rates
   
50.06   Bond required
   
50.07   Administrative penalties
   
50.08   Contract for collection service
   
50.09   General disposal requirements
   
50.10   Containers
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULKY WASTE. Shall have the meaning set forth in Minnesota Statutes and is a
subset of MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Includes household items and other
discarded materials that due to their dimensions and weight are typically not
collected as part of the regular garbage and recycling, or for which there is a
separate fee, such as furniture, carpeting, mattresses and appliances including
electronic devices.
   CITY. City of Lakeland, Washington County, Minnesota.
   COMMERCIAL/BUSINESS. Any premises not primarily used for residential
purposes and premises where a commercial, community, or industrial enterprise
of any kind is carried on, including restaurants, clubs, churches, and schools.
   COMPOSTING. A method of recycling yard waste by allowing it to decay and
then using it as a soil amendment.
   CONSTRUCTION/DEMOLITION WASTE. Construction materials, packaging and rubble
resulting from construction, remodeling, repair and demolition of buildings and
roads, as well as sand, earth, brick, stone, trees, tree branches of more than
2 inches in diameter and tree stumps.
   COUNTY. Washington County, Minnesota.
   GARBAGE. See MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE.
   HAULER. Any person engaged in the business of collecting or removing MSW,
recyclables, yard waste, bulky waste, construction/demolition waste and/or
source separated organic materials for hire.
   HAZARDOUS WASTES. Shall have the meaning defined in Minnesota Statutes.
Wastes are hazardous in Minnesota when they display one or more of these
characteristics: ignitable, oxidizer, corrosive, reactive, toxic, or lethal.
   HOLIDAYS. Shall include only New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July,
Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
   MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE (MSW). Has the meaning set forth in Minnesota
Statutes and shall include garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash, and other solid
waste from residential, commercial, industrial, and community activities that
the generator of the waste aggregates for collection. MSW does not include auto
hulks, street sweepings, ash, construction debris, mining waste, sludges, tree
and agricultural wastes, tires, lead acid batteries, motor and vehicle fluids
and filters, and other materials collected, processed, and disposed of as
separate waste streams. Also referred to as GARBAGE.
   MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Any building used for residential purposes
consisting of 5 dwelling units or more with individual kitchen facilities for
each.
   RECYCLABLES. Shall have the meaning set forth in Minnesota Statutes and
means materials that are separated from MSW for the purpose of recycling or
composting or materials which may be recycled or reused through recycling
processes. At a minimum, the list of RECYCLABLES shall be at least inclusive of
the Washington County Standard List of Residential Curbside Recyclables.
   RECYCLING. Shall have the definition in Minnesota Statutes, and shall mean
the process of collecting and preparing recyclable materials including yard
waste and source-separated compostable materials, and reusing the materials in
their original form or using them in composting or manufacturing processes that
do not cause the destruction of recyclable materials in a manner that precludes
further use.
   RECYCLING CONTAINER. A container provided by the city or the hauler for use
in an authorized curbside recycling program.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Any single building consisting of 4 or less dwelling
units with individual kitchen facilities for each.
   ROLL-OFF CONTAINERS. Open top dumpsters characterized by a rectangular
footprint. The container is designed to be transported by special roll-off
trucks. ROLL-OFF CONTAINERS are commonly used to contain loads of construction
and demolition waste or large amounts of other waste types.
   SOLID WASTE. The general term for MSW, recyclables, yard waste, bulky waste,
and source separated organic materials.
   SOURCE SEPARATED ORGANIC MATERIALS (SSOM). Shall include food waste and
other compostable organic materials that are separated where generated for
recovery and as defined in Minnesota Statutes. The term “organics” does not
include yard waste for purposes of this chapter. (Also referred to as “food
waste/organics” and “source separated organics”).
   SPECIAL PICK UP. Any collection of materials other than MSW, recyclables, or
yard waste or SSOM including white goods, bulky waste and construction/
demolition waste.
   VOLUME BASED BILLING. A graduated rate structure based upon the volume of
garbage collected from a residential dwelling, multiple-residential dwellings
or a commercial enterprise.
   YARD WASTE. Garden wastes, leaves, grass clippings, weeds, small branches,
or other materials as defined by Minnesota Statutes.
(Prior Code, § 801.010) (Am. Ord. 7557, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 50.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare of the residents of the city by licensing and regulating the hauling of
solid wastes within the city, which licensing and regulation the City Council
hereby determines to be necessary to ensure the proper management of solid
wastes in compliance with the city’s 2030 Comprehensive Plan, the Washington
County Solid Waste Management Master Plan 2012-2030 and any updates to those
plans approved by the city or the county and with the state and/or the county
recycling and solid waste reduction mandates and to eliminate other and similar
health and safety hazards which the Council finds now exist or are to be
anticipated in the absence of this licensing and regulation.
(Prior Code, § 801.020) (Am. Ord. 7557, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 50.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in the business of collecting
or removing MSW, recyclables, bulky waste, yard waste, SSOM or construction/
demolition wastes within the city without first having obtained a license from
the city. Such license shall be issued by the city for a period of 1 year under
the conditions prescribed within this chapter and upon payment of a license fee
as set forth in the Master Fee Schedule in Chapter 33 of this code of
ordinances. A license so issued, may at the sole discretion of the city be
renewed annually upon the payment of such fee and upon approval by the city. No
licensee pursuant to this chapter shall acquire vested rights in a license. The
city may, upon finding that public necessity requires, establish other means of
MSW, recyclables, bulky waste, yard waste, SSOM or construction/demolition
wastes collection. The City Council may for cause revoke or refuse to renew any
license issued hereunder; the violation of any provisions of this chapter by
the licensee shall be cause for the revocation or refusal to renew his or her
license. If the county revokes or suspends any hauler’s license, the city
license, in case of revocation, shall be automatically terminated without any
further action of the city, or, in case of suspension, the city license shall
also be automatically suspended for the same length of time, without further
action of the city.
   (A)   Any person desiring to be licensed as a licensed hauler shall make
application to the city on a form prescribed by the city. Each licensed hauler
operating under a separate name or identity, whether as parent/subsidiary or
brother/sister organizations or as an independent organization, shall apply for
and obtain a separate license prior to collecting MSW, recyclables, bulky
waste, yard waste, SSOM or construction/demolition wastes.
   (B)   No license shall be issued until the applicant files with the city a
current policy of public liability insurance and property damage insurance upon
each of the trucks or other vehicles to be used by the applicant in the
licensee’s business. The limits of coverage of such insurance shall be at least
the sum of $1,000,000 for injury to one person, $2,000,000 for injury to two or
more persons in the same accident, $200,000 for property damages and statutory
limits for workers compensation insurance and may be adjusted from time to
time. The city shall be a named insured on each policy. There shall be a
certificate showing that the licensee has in force and effect the aforesaid
insurance covering both the licensee and the city, and said certificate shall
be filed with the City Clerk with the license, within 10 days of any change in
insurance status, and at least 30 days prior to the expiration of the policies
of insurance for each year of the license.
   (C)   The application shall include a list of equipment to be utilized by
the hauler. Each vehicle for which a hauler’s license is issued may be
inspected by the city, at the city’s discretion, for conformance with this
chapter.
   (D)   The application for license shall be accompanied by certification that
each of the employees of the hauler that will be performing work in the city
shall have been found free of offenses of felony punishable by jail. The
certification shall be approved by the city.
   (E)   In order to renew a license, the licensee must submit to the city a
list of all active accounts.
   (F)   No license shall be issued until the applicant files with the city a
schedule of volume based billing rates to be charged by the hauler during the
license period for which the application is made. Differences between rates
charged for the various garbage container sizes shall be sufficient to
encourage recycling and waste reduction in accordance with Minnesota Statutes
and the Washington County Solid Waste Master Plan. Every hauler shall provide
notification to the city and to customers at least 2 weeks prior to any change
in rates to be implemented during the licensed period. Failure to submit the
rates in a timely manner shall render the changed rates void.
(Prior Code, § 801.030) (Am. Ord. 7449, passed 9-16-1986; Am. Ord. 7557, passed
6-20-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF LICENSED HOLDERS.
   All persons, firms, or corporations holding a license from the city pursuant
to this section must comply with the following operational requirements.
Failure to observe these provisions shall be a basis for suspension or
revocation of the license.
   (A)   Operating procedures. A licensee shall operate in a manner consistent
with its application materials and provide notice to the city within 15 days of
any change of information, forms, rate structures, or certificates filed as
part of the license application process except for the 30-day notice
requirement on insurance as is found herein.
   (B)   Compliance with laws and regulations. The licensee shall comply with
all state, county, and local laws and regulations.
   (C)   Services to be offered by licensees. In addition to collection of MSW,
the following services shall be offered to all customers:
      (1)   Recycling collection shall be provided to all customers;
      (2)   Bulky waste collection and processing/disposal shall be provided to
all customers within 5 business days of request by the customer. An additional
fee may be charged;
      (3)   Yard waste collection and processing/disposal in season shall be
provided to all customers within 5 business days of request by the customer. An
additional fee may be charged; and
      (4)   SSOM collection and processing/disposal may be provided to all
customers. An additional fee may be charged.
   (D)   Collection days and hours. The licensed hauler shall comply with days
and hours for collection of MSW, recyclables, bulky waste, yard waste, SSOM or
construction/demolition wastes as specified by resolution of the City Council
from time to time.
      (1)   No collection of solid waste or construction/demolition waste shall
be made except between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) a.m. and six o’clock
(6:00) p.m., Monday through Friday, as established by the Council. Operation
during these hours may require that service be moved back one day to
accommodate holidays. Customers shall be notified of a specific day for
collection and the licensee shall collect the materials within those time
periods.
      (2)   Commercial/multiple dwelling collection of solid waste and
construction/demolition waste shall be made at least once a week between the
hours of seven o’clock (7:00) a.m. and six o’clock (6:00) p.m., and on any day
of the week and as often as is necessary to protect the public’s health.
      (3)   Residential “special pick up” as defined in §
50.01 of this chapter may take place on any day, Monday through Saturday, seven
o’clock (7:00) a.m. to six o’clock (6:00) p.m., as arranged by the property
owner and licensed hauler.
   (E)   Vehicles and equipment. Each licensed hauler shall only use vehicles
and equipment so constructed that the contents shall not leak, spill or blow
out of the vehicle. The vehicles and equipment shall be kept clean and as free
from offensive odors as possible, and shall not stand on any street, alley, or
public place longer than is reasonably necessary to collect MSW, recyclables,
bulky waste, yard waste, SSOM or construction/demolition wastes. Each vehicle
for which a hauler’s license is issued shall exhibit such license in a
prominent position on said vehicle.
   (F)   Collection site and cleanup of spills. The licensee shall ensure that
each collection site is left tidy and free of litter. Any spills, including
spills of solid wastes, vehicle or waste fluids or hydraulic fluids shall be
cleaned up immediately. If not noticed by the hauler, spills that the city
provides notice to the hauler of shall be cleaned within 2 hours of notice by
the city.
   (G)   Reports. Each licensed hauler shall compile and retain MSW, recycling,
bulky waste, SSOM, yard waste, and construction/demolition waste weight slips
and other data. Failure to certify accurate weights may be cause for revocation
of the hauling license. All licensees shall submit to the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency (MPCA), the county, and other required reporting entities inthe
future, required MSW, recycling, and other waste data in compliance with the
MPCA’s and the county’s reporting requirements. Failure to submit the reports
shall be cause for license suspension. In addition, when requested by the city,
the hauler shall furnish the city with copies of reports that are submitted to
the reporting entities. Failure to keep accurate weights and/or to furnish this
data to the required reporting entities or the city within 30 business days of
it being due shall entitle the city to impose liquated damages and/or revoke
the collection license.
      (1)   Upon demand of the city, the licensee shall produce any records,
which the city may require to verify that all MSW, recyclables, bulky waste,
SSOM, and yard waste have been disposed of in a lawful manner. Each licensed
hauler shall provide to the city during normal business hours, access to books,
documents, papers, and other records of the licensee that are directly
pertinent to the issuance and monitoring of the license and required reports.
In addition, all licensed haulers shall report to the city such information as
shall be required by the City Council by resolution from time to time, with
such information being provided as required on a form provided through the
office of the City Clerk for such purpose. Haulers shall be required to
demonstrate that they have disposed of MSW at facilities which are duly
licensed for that purpose.
      (2)   Hauler shall also provide to the city, on demand, a master list of
its customers so that the city may verify that every household and/or business
located within the city has a contract for collection services as required by
M.S. § 115A.941(a), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   The licensee shall notify the city of the discontinuance of service
to any premises with a 5 day written notice prior to service being
discontinued, if possible, but no later than the date service is actually
discontinued.
   (H)   Opportunity to recycle. Unless the city provides recycling services,
each licensed MSW hauler shall provide its customers with the opportunity to
recycle through a weekly curbside collection of recyclables (as defined in §
50.01 of this chapter). The curbside collection of recyclables shall be on the
same day as collection of customer’s MSW but may occur at a different time
within that day. The recyclables collection shall be from a location at or near
the MSW collection site, or at such other location as mutually agreeable to the
hauler and the customer. The hauler shall specify how the customers are to
place and prepare their recyclables for collection. The hauler shall provide
each new customer with detailed instructions on how to prepare recyclables for
collection. Haulers must notify customers at least 30 days in advance before
changing their recycling collection system and provide detailed instructions on
how to prepare recyclables under the new system. The hauler is deemed the owner
of recyclables, and upon collection, the hauler may market them. Nothing herein
shall be construed to prevent the hauler from offering curbside collection for
other recyclable materials in addition to the defined recyclables.
      (1)   All separated recyclables must be transported to a licensed
recycling facility or delivered to an end market for sale or reuse, or brought
to an intermediate collection center for later delivery to a licensed
processing center or end market for recycling. It is unlawful for any person to
transport for disposal or to dispose of designated recyclables in an MSW
disposal facility. No separated recyclables may be mixed with another waste
material or incinerated or landfilled or composted or made into fuel pellets.
      (2)   In each instance where a hauler does not collect recyclable
materials from a residence or business, adequate notification as to why the
recyclable material was not picked up, must be left with the recyclable
materials left at the curbside.
   (I)   Billing practices. As licenser, the city reserves the right to insure
billing practices and charges for service are fair and conscionable. All
licensed haulers shall reimburse any unearned fees to any customer who cancels
service for any reason. Additionally, haulers shall not charge any fees to
remove any container from a customer’s property when they cancel service
except, a hauler may charge a service fee for container removal if they have
entered into a written contract that expressly outlines this charge in the
event the customer cancels service before the end of the contract period. In
the event the city receives a complaint on billing practices it deems unfair
and/or unconscionable, it shall send a violation notice to the hauler outlining
the unacceptable billing practice. The hauler will be provided an opportunity
to respond to the complaint before any enforcement action is taken.
   (J)   Office location. The hauler shall establish and maintain an office
with continuous supervision for accepting complaints and customer calls. The
office shall be in service with continuous supervision, during the hours of 8:
00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. CDT Monday through Friday. A system for recording and
responding to customer calls outside business hours shall be established and
described in the application for license. The address and telephone number of
such office and any changes therein shall be given to the city in writing.
   (K)   Complaints. The hauler shall maintain a complaint response and file
system. All complaints shall be answered courteously and promptly. The hauler
is responsible for resolving all complaints received.
      (1)   Missed collections reported by customers shall be collected within
2 business days of the report of the miss.
      (2)   The city will notify the hauler of any unresolved complaints that
it receives. The hauler shall provide a semi-annual report in a format
prescribed by the city on the total number and type of complaints received and
the resolution of those complaints.
(Prior Code, § 801.035) (Ord. 7485, passed 1-18-2000; Am. Ord. 7557, passed 6-
20-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 REGULATIONS; RATES.
   All collection and removal of garbage, rubbish or recyclables within the
city shall be performed in accordance with the following regulations.
   (A)   Frequency of collections. MSW, recycling, SSOM if provided, and yard
waste during yard waste season unless otherwise specified, shall be collected
and removed from each collection point with sufficient frequency to minimize
putrification, objectionable odors, infestation by vectors of disease or as
determined by the city.
   (B)   Limits on quantity. There shall be no limits as to quantity but
haulers need not collect or remove any MSW, recycling, SSOM, or yard waste
unless the same is in appropriate containers.
   (C)   Collection and removal fees/rates. No hauler shall charge a fee for
the collection and removal of MSW, SSOM, or yard waste from any single-family
residential dwelling house, as provided by divisions (A) and (B) of this
section, except as provided by the hauler in its application for license and
established by ordinance by the City Council. A variable rate billing schedule
must be used for all MSW. In the case of multiple-family residential buildings
the fee for each unit within the building shall not exceed the amount permitted
for service to any singlefamily residential dwelling; however, in the case of
commercial or other nonresidential buildings, the hauler may charge a fee to be
established by agreement between him or her and the individual customer
provided the fee is reasonably related to the rate established hereunder for
the collection and removal of garbage and rubbish from residential buildings to
the extent the collection and removal service required is comparable. In
accordance with M.S. § 115A.93 Subd.3.(c) haulers shall not impose a greater
charge on residents who recycle than on residents who do not recycle. The
hauler in March and September shall notify each customer of the yard waste
services, costs, and procedures for yard waste pickup provided by the hauler.
   (D)   Effect of failure to pay fees. Notwithstanding any provision of this
chapter to the contrary, no hauler need collect or remove the garbage from any
collection point if the customer for whom the garbage and rubbish is being
collected and removed at that collection point is in default of any payment or
payments required to be paid for the service under the contract or agreement
existing between the hauler and the customer. All such accounts must be
reported to the city within 5 business days of non-collection.
   (E)   Separation of yard waste or other solid waste. It shall be unlawful
for a licensed hauler to dispose of yard waste into the MSW, recyclables, or
bulky waste stream. The city may also by resolution pass from time to time
rules and regulations affecting the separation of other solid waste for
collection by licensed haulers within the city.
   (F)   Unlawful disposal of garbage, rubbish and recyclables. No MSW,
recycling, bulky waste, SSOM, yard waste and construction/demolition waste
shall be collected, conveyed or disposed of except by waste haulers licensed by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 801.040) (Ord. 7455, passed 3-15-1988; Am. Ord. 7557, passed 6-
20-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 BOND REQUIRED.
   No license issued hereunder shall be effective until the licensee shall have
deposited with the City Clerk a license bond in the penal sum of $10,000
conditioned on the haulers compliance with the conditions of the license
granted hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 801.050) (Am. Ord. 7557, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 50.07 ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   Administrative penalties as established by the City Council shall be
enforced for ordinance and license violations including:
      (1)   Failure to comply with statutory and code requirements, including
liability insurance;
      (2)   Failure to submit required reports by date specified by ordinance;
      (3)   Failure to respond to customer calls or missed collections within
the times specified by ordinance;
      (4)   Failure to provide city with the name of disposal facility used,
upon request;
      (5)   Failure to display license in vehicle(s);
      (6)   Failure to ensure contents do not leak or spill from vehicles or
during collection;
      (7)   Failure to clean up solid or liquid spills or leaks from vehicles
within 2 hours;
      (8)   Failure to notify the city of rate changes in accordance with
chapter;
      (9)   Failure to notify the city of non-collection of solid wastes;
      (10)   Failure to provide proper disposal of solid waste, including MSW,
recyclables, bulky waste, yard waste, SSOM and/or construction/demolition
waste;
      (11)   Failure to properly store container; and
      (12)   Failure to mitigate overflowing container.
   (B)   All licensed haulers under this article shall promptly remit to the
city any administrative penalties imposed.
      (1)   Administrative penalties not remitted within 45 days of imposition
shall be doubled on the 46th day after the date of the city’s notification to
the hauler of the imposition of administrative penalties, and shall double
again after each successive 30 day period in which the penalties are not fully
remitted to the city.
      (2)   No license under this article shall be renewed or issued if the
hauler, or individuals having interest in the business entity for which the
license is sought, have any outstanding administrative penalties due to the
city for that businesses entity or another business entity under their fmancial
control.
      (3)   The amounts of administrative penalties shall be determined
annually by City Council resolution.
(Ord. 7557, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 50.08 CONTRACT FOR COLLECTION SERVICES.
   Every residential, business, or commercial property within the city shall
have a contract for garbage collection services except those which are exempted
pursuant to the provisions of M.S. § 115A.941(b), as it may be amended from
time to time, as long as that household, retail, or commercial business entity
ensures that, an environmentally sound alternative for garbage and recyclables
disposal has and is being implemented. All persons seeking exemption from the
provisions of this chapter shall submit a written application with the City
Clerk specifying and identifying the environmentally sound alternative that it
is seeking to implement in lieu of entering into a contract for garbage
collection services with a licensed hauler pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter. The City Council shall conduct a hearing upon receipt of all such
applications and determine whether or not the method proposed by the applicant
for alternate disposal of his, her or its garbage and refuse is environmentally
sound and reasonably acceptable.
(Ord. 7557, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 50.09 GENERAL DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall bury any MSW, recyclable materials, or other waste
materials within the city. No person shall allow solid waste, recyclables,
bulky waste, SSOM, or yard waste to accumulate upon property owned or occupied
by any such person; or fails to dispose thereof in a manner meeting the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit MSW,
recyclables, bulky waste, yard waste, SSOM, or construction and demolition,
waste to be removed from his or her property by an unlicensed hauler.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent persons from hauling MSW,
recyclables, bulky waste, yard waste, tree waste, SSOM, or construction and
demolition waste or other waste from their own residences or business
properties, provided the following rules are observed:
      (1)   The disposal method must ensure that all waste will be deposited
into properly permitted and/or licensed site in accordance with state and
county rules;
      (2)   That all MSW, recyclables, or SSOM shall be hauled in containers
that are watertight on all sides and the bottom, and with tight fitting covers
on top;
      (3)   That all bulky waste, yard waste, tree waste, or construction and
demolition waste must be hauled in vehicles with leak-proof bodies and be
completely covered or enclosed by canvas or other means of material so as to
completely eliminate the possibility of loss of cargo; and
      (4)   That recyclables shall be disposed of at a recycling facility, an
organized recycling drive, or through a licensed recycling hauler.
   (C)   The discharging or depositing of MSW, recyclables, bulky waste, yard
waste, tree waste, SSOM, or construction and demolition waste on any street,
alley, drive, park, playground, or other public place or any privately-owned
lot in the city by any person is unlawful. MSW is the responsibility of the
property owner until such time as it is collected by a licensed hauler.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to scavenge or otherwise collect MSW, or
other recyclable materials, bulky wastes, yard wastes, SSOM, or construction
and demolition waste at the curb or from recyclable containers without a
license from the city and an account relationship with the owner of the
premises.
   (E)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, MSW shall be
disposed of by contracting with a licensed hauler to haul the waste to a
properly permitted and/or licensed site in accordance with state and county
rules.
   (F)   Residents of residential dwelling units are strongly encouraged to
separate recyclables from the waste stream for recycling. Owners/occupants of
commercial buildings shall comply with Minnesota Statutes and recycle at least
3 types of material.
   (G)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, bulky waste must
be disposed of by contracting with a licensed private hauler to haul the waste
to a properly permitted and/or licensed processing or disposal site.
   (H)   Yard waste. All leaves and grass clippings shall be separated from all
other solid waste accumulated on the premises and shall be placed and
maintained in compostable bags, containers, or packages as provided by the
customer’s yard waste collection contractor or otherwise as are identified as
acceptable by resolution of the City Council establishing same from time to
time.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of yard waste into
the MSW, recyclables, or bulky waste streams. All yard waste to be picked up by
a licensed hauler shall be placed in separate compostable bags or containers in
compliance with Minnesota Statutes and shall not contain garbage, recyclables
or construction/demolition waste. In compliance with M.S. § 115A.931 Subd.(c)
and M.S. § 325E.046, yard waste may not be contained in plastic bags.
      (2)   Yard waste shall be disposed of by:
         (a)   Contracting with a licensed private collector to haul the yard
waste to a county approved properly permitted and/or licensed compost site;
         (b)   The resident transporting the yard waste to a compost site; or
         (c)   Composting the yard waste on the resident’s property.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for a licensed private collector to dispose of
yard waste into the garbage, other refuse, recyclables, or white goods bulky
waste stream.
      (4)   Residential composting shall be conducted within an enclosed
container(s). The compost shall be contained, secure against vermin and excess
moisture and remain aerobic to allow for the decomposition of the material. The
compost area shall be screened from view of adjacent property owners.
Containers shall be of a durable material including, but not limited to, sturdy
woven wire fencing, rot-resistant wood, or a commercially purchased composting
unit which will provide for adequate aeration. Containers shall be constructed
and maintained in a structurally sound manner. Wood used in the construction of
a compost container must be sound and free of rot. The compost container(s)
shall be located in the rear yard no closer than 1 foot to any rear or side
property line and shall not be located closer than 1 foot from the rear
property line and shall not be located in any required front or side yard as
defined in the zoning code, nor closer than 20 feet to any habitable building,
other than the resident’s own home, off of the subject property. Composting
shall be accomplished in compliance with Minnesota Statutes and the applicable
Administrative Rules of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit SSOM to be removed from
the property by an unlicensed hauler. A hauler licensed for SSOM may also be
licensed for garbage and/or recyclables.
(Ord. 7557, passed 6-20-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.10 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Containers required.
      (1)   Containers. All residents of residential dwellings and owners or
managers of multiple residential dwellings and commercial establishments shall
provide one or more containers to receive and collect all MSW, recyclables, and
other materials required by the city which may accumulate between times of
collection. The container may be provided by the hauler. All containers for
garbage, other refuse, and yard waste recyclables shall be made of suitable
material, which is rodent and water proof and which will not easily corrode.
Containers shall be kept tightly closed. MSW and recyclables may be kept in a
plastic bag of such strength that the contents therein will not rip, tear, or
puncture the plastic bag.
      (2)   Dumpsters.
         (a)   For all multiple-residential dwellings and commercial
establishments where solid wastes must be disposed of and the volume exceeds 3
90-gallon containers per week, dumpster service shall be utilized with the
frequency of pick up being not less than once per week. Actual size of the
dumpster or the frequency of pick up shall be determined by need as established
by the city.
         (b)   No person shall deposit garbage, bulky waste, SSOM, yard waste,
construction/ demolition waste, or other refuse in a dumpster except the owner,
occupant, or authorized agent of the premises using such container. It shall be
a misdemeanor to deposit garbage, bulky waste, SSOM, yard waste, construction/
demolition waste, or other refuse in a dumpster in violation of this section.
      (3)   Recycling containers. All owners and/or managers of multiple-
residential dwellings and commercial buildings are required to provide
containers or dumpsters for tenants to deposit recyclables and have city-
approved adequate storage between collections by a licensed hauler.
      (4)   At each construction or demolition site, the contractor and/or
property owner shall provide at least one roll-off container. No solid wastes
or construction/demolition waste, whether generated at the site or elsewhere,
shall be stored outside the roll-off container. The roll-off container shall be
emptied within 7 days of the container being filled to capacity. Contractors
and/or property owners shall be responsible for cleaning up and disposing of
construction debris carried by the elements onto neighboring property.
   (B)   Storage and placement.
      (1)   Containers shall be placed for collection not earlier than six
o’clock (6:00) p.m. the evening before collection and must be put away no later
than six o’clock (6:00) p.m. on the day of collection. At all other times, the
containers shall be so located as to be out of public view in a secure place
insofar as possible.
      (2)   Every owner, operator or lessee of an industrial and/or commercial
business shall keep all containers for solid waste, recyclables, bulky waste,
SSOM or yard waste in an enclosure or building. All new garbage and recycling
enclosures or buildings constructed in compliance with this provision, and all
major alterations to such existing garbage and recycling enclosures and
buildings, shall be constructed in compliance with the provisions relating to
garbage and recycling enclosure structures. Containers shall not be filled to
the extent that the garbage or recycling placed therein can drop or spill
therefrom, and bulky waste shall be contained within the enclosure.
(Ord. 7557, passed 6-20-2017)
CHAPTER 51: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS AND SOLAR STRUCTURES
Section
   
51.01   General purposes
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Permitted use
   
51.04   Variances
   
51.05   Access to direct sunlight
   
51.06   Evidence of existing conditions
   
51.07   Approval of solar energy systems and solar structures
   
51.08   Violation
§ 51.01 GENERAL PURPOSES.
   The general purposes of this chapter are to protect access to direct
sunlight for solar energy systems and to permit use of solar energy systems to
help offset the projected scarcity and high cost of conventional fuels.
(Prior Code, § 508.010) (Ord. 7430b, passed 5-19-1982)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM.  Any device or a set of devices whose primary purpose
is to collect solar energy and convert and/or store it for useful purposes,
including heating and cooling of buildings and other energy-using processes, or
to produce generated power by means of any combination of collecting,
transferring, or converting solar-generated energy.
   SOLAR STRUCTURE. Any residential, commercial, industrial, or business
structure directly connected to solar energy system. All solar energy systems
shall be considered part of the principal structure, which they serve and shall
not be considered as accessory structures or buildings in and of themselves.
(Prior Code, § 508.020) (Ord. 7430b, passed 5-19-1982)
§ 51.03 PERMITTED USE.
   Solar energy systems and solar structures shall be permitted in all
districts, provided that the system is in compliance with the established
dimensional requirements and other provisions of the ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 508.030) (Ord. 7430b, passed 5-19-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 VARIANCES.
   Requests for variances shall be applied for and processed in the same manner
as is set forth in §
159.022.
(Prior Code, § 508.040) (Ord. 7430b, passed 5-19-1982)
§ 51.05 ACCESS TO DIRECT SUNLIGHT.
   In any zone, residential, commercial, or industrial, no owner, occupier, or
person in control of property shall allow vegetation or structures to be placed
thereon so as to cast a shadow on a solar energy system or solar structure
which is greater or higher than the shadow cast by a hypothetical wall of 10
feet located along the boundary line of the property between the hours of 9:30
a.m. and 2:30 p.m. Central Standard Time on December 21; provided, however,
that this standard shall not apply to vegetation or structures which cast a
shadow upon the solar energy system at the time of its installation or as to
the vegetation existing at the time of installation of the solar energy system
or solar structure which grows to a height so as to cast a shadow upon the
solar energy system or solar structure.
(Prior Code, § 508.050) (Ord. 7430b, passed 5-19-1982)
§ 51.06 EVIDENCE OF EXISTING CONDITIONS.
   As a means of evidencing existing conditions, the owner of a solar energy
system shall file with the City Clerk an affidavit containing the following
information:
   (A)   The applicant's full name and address, together with the full name and
address of the fee owner of the property if different than that of the
applicant;
   (B)   A legal description of the property affected;
   (C)   A certificate of survey or other document specifying the boundary
lines of the affected property upon which the solar energy system is located;
   (D)   The names and addresses of all abutting owners to the affected
property;
   (E)   Attaching photographs of the affected property depicting the solar
energy system, the property upon which it is located, and its location with
regard to neighboring properties; and
   (F)   A statement by the applicant that they have served, either personally
or by registered or certified mail, all adjoining property owners with a notice
that the applicant would be filing an affidavit pursuant to this section with
the City Clerk and that they would have 30 days to review same and make any
objections thereto by filing same with the City Clerk. In the event no
objections are filed with the City Clerk within 30 days of the filing of the
applicant's affidavit, the photographs attached thereto shall be presumed to be
a true and correct pictorial depiction of the solar energy system, its location
upon the affected property, and of all existing structures, trees, shrubberies,
and other vegetation upon the affected property and upon all adjoining
properties. Should a timely notice of objection be filed by any adjoining
property owner, no presumption hereunder shall be created.
(Prior Code, § 508.060) (Ord. 7430b, passed 5-19-1982)
§ 51.07 APPROVAL OF SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS AND SOLAR STRUCTURES.
   For all permits required under this code of ordinances, no building permit,
which includes a solar energy system or solar structure, shall be issued
without the property owner or his or her designated agent first having obtained
approval in writing from the Building Inspector with regard to the solar energy
system or solar structure. The Building Inspector may require a solar energy
system or solar structure plan prior to issuing the building permit. Adding a
solar energy system to an existing building will require a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 508.070) (Ord. 7430b, passed 5-19-1982)
§ 51.08 VIOLATION.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter is declared to be a nuisance
affecting the public health, safety, and general welfare and shall be
prohibited as specified in
Chapter 93 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 508.080) (Ord. 7430b, passed 5-19-1982)
CHAPTER 52: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
Municipal Water Systems
   
52.01   Scope
   
52.02   Management and the like
   
52.03   Additional rules
   
52.04   Districts generally
   
52.05   Emergency water conservation
   
52.06   Inspections
   
52.07   Liability of city
   
52.08   Service applications
   
52.09   Implied consent to rules, regulations, and rates
   
52.10   Discontinuing service
   
52.11   Connection permits, fees and the like
   
52.12   Installation of connections
   
52.13   Private water not permitted in city water system
   
52.14   Liability for repairs
   
52.15   Leaks in service lines
   
52.16   Abandonment of service
   
52.17   Taking water from or meddling with public hydrants
Water Meters
   
52.30   Generally
   
52.31   Persons authorized to repair, install and the like
   
52.32   Accessibility
   
52.33   Repair, replacement and the like
   
52.34   Tampering
General Rates and Charges; Billing and Collection Procedures
   
52.45   Rates and charges
   
52.46   Liability of property owners
   
52.47   Meter readings
   
52.48   Billing date, due date and the like
   
52.49   Delinquent accounts
   
52.50   Inaccurate or inoperative meters and meter tests
Individual Water Supply System
   
52.60   General purpose
   
52.61   Adoption of state regulations
   
52.62   Application
   
52.63   Implied warranty of contract
   
52.64   Geological log
Nonessential Water Usage
   
52.75   Purpose
   
52.76   Definitions
   
52.77   Application
   
52.78   Declaration of critical water deficiency
   
52.79   Mandatory emergency water conservation measures
   
52.80   Variances
   
52.81   Enforcement
 
   
52.99   Violations and Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sewage regulations, see
Chapter 157 of this code of ordinances
   Tap fees and water connection fees, see
Chapter 33 of this code of ordinances
MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEMS
§ 52.01 SCOPE.
   The city's water systems shall be operated and maintained under the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1703.010) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990)
§ 52.02 MANAGEMENT AND THE LIKE.
   The Lakeland Utilities Department is responsible for the management,
maintenance, care, and operation of the water system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1703.020) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990)
§ 52.03 ADDITIONAL RULES.
   The City Council may prescribe additional rules and regulations for the
municipal water systems.
(Prior Code, § 1703.030) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990)
§ 52.04 DISTRICTS GENERALLY.
   The City Council may establish water districts and establish area charges,
connection charges, and lateral charges for each district by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 1703.040) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990; Am. Ord. 7551, passed
1-19-2016)
§ 52.05 EMERGENCY WATER CONSERVATION.
   (A)   The City Council may impose emergency regulations pertaining to the
conservation of water by resolution of the City Council and by giving notice by
publication or by posting in the City Hall and at those public places as the
Council may direct.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council determines that a shortage of water supply
threatens the city, it may, by resolution, limit the times and hours during
which city water may be used for sprinkling, irrigation, car washing, and other
external purposes. After publication of a notice setting for the restrictions
for use of water or 2 days after mailing of a copy of the notice to each
customer, no person shall use or permit water to be used in violation of the
resolution and any customer who does so, shall be charged the sum as
established by ordinance for each day of violation, and the charge shall be
added to the customer's next water bill. Continued violation shall be cause for
discontinuance of water service.
(Prior Code, § 1703.050) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990)
   (C)   Effective July 17, 2007, the following restrictions and conservation
measures with regard to the use of the city water system by its users were
imposed:
      (1)   Until further order of the City Council, there shall be no lawn
sprinkling, irrigation, or watering of vegetation using the municipal water
systems between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. on all days of the week.
      (2)   For all users connected to the City of Lakeland municipal water
system for the Cities of Lakeland, Lakeland Shores, Lake St. Croix Beach and
St. Mary's Point, there shall be no lawn or garden sprinkling allowed except
for even-numbered addresses on the even days of the week and for odd- numbered
addresses on the odd days of the week. All these restrictions shall be subject
to the complete prohibition against the use of the municipal water system for
purposes of lawn or garden sprinkling between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 5:00
p.m. on all days.
(Res. 2007-09, passed 7-17-2007) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 INSPECTIONS.
   Subject to constitutional limitations, any authorized city employee or agent
shall have the right to enter and be admitted to any lands and property in the
city at any reasonable hour for the purpose of inspection of materials,
plumbing work, and fixtures of all kinds used by or in connection with the
water systems.
(Prior Code, § 1703.060) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990)
§ 52.07 LIABILITY OF CITY.
   The city shall not be held liable at any time for any deficiency or failure
in the supply of water to the customer whether the same be occasioned by
shutting off the water for repairs or connections or for any cause whatever.
(Prior Code, § 1703.070) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990)
§ 52.08 SERVICE APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for municipal water service shall be accepted only from
property owners or their authorized agents.
(Prior Code, § 1703.080) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990)
§ 52.09 IMPLIED CONSENT TO RULES, REGULATIONS, AND RATES.
   Every person applying for water service, every owner of property for which
any such application is made, every person accepting water service and every
owner of property where such service is accepted subsequent to July 1, 1990
shall be deemed, upon making the application or accepting the service, to
consent to all rules, regulations, and rates as established by this subchapter
and as may be adopted by resolution or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1703.090) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990)
§ 52.10 DISCONTINUING SERVICE.
   (A)   The city reserves the right to discontinue service to any customer of
the water system when necessary for repairs, additional connection or
reconnection with not less than 10 days notice, unless there is an emergency
situation determined by the Public Works Director.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to discontinue service to any customer of
the water system with notice as hereinafter provided for nonpayment of charges
or bills or for disregard of any rules or regulations in connection with the
use or operation of the system.
   (C)   The service of water shall not be shut off until notice and an
opportunity for a hearing have first been given to the occupant and owner of
the premises involved. The notice shall be personally served or delivered by
certified mail and shall state that, if payment is not made before the date
stated in the notice, but not less than 10 days after the date upon which the
notice is given, the water supply to the premises will be shut off. The notice
shall also state that the occupant may, before that date, demand a hearing
before the City Council, in which case the supply will not be shut off until
after the hearing is held. If, as a result of the hearing, the City Council
finds that the amount claimed owing is actually due and unpaid and that there
is no legal reason why the water supply of the delinquent customer may not be
shut off in accordance with this subchapter, the city may then shut off the
supply.
   (D)   Whenever any service has been discontinued for nonpayment of charges
or bills or for disregard of any rules or regulations in accordance with the
procedures set forth above, it shall not be resumed except upon payment of the
charges or bills accrued together with interest thereon, at a rate to be
determined by resolution or compliance with the rules and regulations
previously violated and payment to the city of a disconnect fee and reconnect
fee in the amount established by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 1703.100) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990; Am. Ord. 7551, passed
1-19-2016)
§ 52.11 CONNECTION PERMITS, FEES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall make any type of connection to the water system except
after making an application therefor on a form provided by the city and
receiving a permit issued by the city for those purposes.
   (B)   The application shall include the legal description of the property to
be serviced, the uses for which the connection is requested, and the size of
the service line to be used. At the time of making the application there shall
be paid to the city fees established by resolution.
   (C)   No connection shall be made with respect to any water system serving
the property of any person or occupants of the land, parcel, or premises
affected that have not paid or provided for the payment of the full and
proportionate share of the utilities.
   (D)   No connection shall be made to the water system until the applicant or
owner pays a connection charge established by resolution. The connection fee
shall be in addition to any other fees or charges required.
   (E)   Prior to any connections the owner, occupant, or user shall pay in
cash or agree to pay charges in the form of special assessments to be levied
against the property to be spread over a number of years coincident with the
maturity requirements of any special improvement bond sold for the purpose of
financing the construction of a municipal water system serving the property.
The cash payment or assessment charge shall be in the principal amount of not
less than the payments made by or charges placed against comparable properties
for like services for the water system in an amount as may be established by
resolution. Payment to the city in the form of a special assessment charge
shall be in the form of equal annual installments together with interest on the
unpaid balance, which shall be established by resolution.
   (F)   Any owner of a building to which water service is or becomes available
shall be subject to an additional charge as established by resolution upon
connection to such service if the connection is not made within the period of
time established by resolution after the service becomes available.
(Prior Code, § 1703.110) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990; Am. Ord. 7551, passed
1-19-2016) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.12 INSTALLATION OF CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All connections to the water system shall be performed by a plumber
licensed to do plumbing in the city; except that nothing in this section shall
be construed as to prohibit an individual owner from obtaining a permit to
connect to an existing service line located totally within the owner's property
and installing the connection by his or her own labor; provided, however, that
the construction is conducted in compliance with all ordinances and applicable
statutes and the requirements of the City Engineer and Plumbing Inspector.
   (B)   No digging in any permanent type street shall be permitted except by
special permission of the city.
   (C)   After any construction, enlargement, alteration or repair is complete,
the Plumbing Inspector shall be notified. It shall be unlawful to cover any
connecting line until an inspection has been made and the connection and the
work incident thereto has been approved by the Plumbing Inspector as a proper
and suitable connection.
   (D)   There shall be installed in every connection to the city water system
2 gate valves; one just ahead of the meter, and the second valve to be placed
on the discharge side of the meter so that the water may be turned off and the
meter may be removed and the house drained. All service pipes connected to the
system shall be of a type "K" copper, a minimum of 1 inch inside diameter shall
be laid at a depth not less than 7.5 feet below the established grade or as low
as the street mains. All outside and inside piping shall be in accordance with
the manufacturer's recommendation and the State Plumbing Code. These are
minimum requirements and the City Council may adopt by resolution more
restrictive or additional regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1703.120) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.13 PRIVATE WATER NOT PERMITTED IN CITY WATER SYSTEM.
   Whenever any premises are connected to the city water system, there shall be
maintained a complete physical separation between the city water supply system
and the private water supply system so that it is impossible intentionally or
unintentionally to allow any water produced by a private system to be
introduced in the supply line from the city system.
(Prior Code, § 1703.130) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.14 LIABILITY FOR REPAIRS.
   (A)   After the initial connection has been made to the water curb box stop,
the applicant, owner, or the occupant or user of the premises shall be liable
for all repairs required to the water line, from the residence to but not
including the corporation cock, including any necessary repairs to the curb box
stop and any necessary street repairs.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant, owner, occupant, or
user to maintain the curb box stop at such height as will ensure that it
remains at the finished grade of the land.
(Prior Code, § 1703.140) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990)
§ 52.15 LEAKS IN SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   Any owner, occupant, or user of a premises who discovers a leak in a
service line to the premises shall notify the city offices within 24 hours.
   (B)   Any water wasted due to failure of the person to comply with this
section shall be estimated by the Finance Director/Deputy Clerk and be charged
for against the owner at the premises at the established rate.
(Prior Code, § 1703.150) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990)
§ 52.16 ABANDONMENT OF SERVICE.
   In case any water service pipe should have to be abandoned, the owner of the
water service to be abandoned shall excavate and cut off the water service pipe
at the curb stop within 10 days after the water service has been discontinued.
(Prior Code, § 1703.160) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990)
§ 52.17 TAKING WATER FROM OR MEDDLING WITH PUBLIC HYDRANTS.
   No person shall unscrew or take off the cap of any water hydrant or in any
way meddle or interfere with the hydrant or take or carry away any water from
any public hydrant except the city employees when in the line of duty, and
authorized representatives of the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire Protection
District.
(Prior Code, § 1703.170) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
WATER METERS
§ 52.30 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Unless exempted by the city, before any water conveyed through the
municipal water system is used on the land or premises of any person, there
shall first be installed a water meter that will accurately measure the water
consumed on the premises.
   (B)   All applications for the installation shall be made to the Lakeland
Department of Public Works. Maintenance and repair of water meters shall be
made by the Department of Public Works, who shall proceed to comply with the
application within a reasonable time thereafter. All meters installed shall be
furnished by the city and shall remain the property of the city. Regulations
for the cost of furnishing and use of water meters shall be as established by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 1704.010) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990; Am. Ord. 7551, passed
1-19-2016) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.31 PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO REPAIR, INSTALL AND THE LIKE.
   No person, other than the city, or its designee, shall install, maintain, or
repair any water meter within the city. Every water meter connected to the
water system shall be sealed by or under the direction of the Department of
Public Works. No person shall break or remove the seal; provided, however, that
a plumber licensed to do business in the city may break the seal or remove the
meter for necessary repairs. In all cases where a seal is broken or a meter
removed by a licensed plumber, the plumber shall notify the Public Works
Director of that fact within 24 hours after the seal is broken or the meter is
removed. Whenever any seal attached to a water meter by or under the direction
of the Department of Public Works is found broken, the broken condition of the
seal shall be a prima facie evidence that the seal was broken in violation of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 1704.020) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.32 ACCESSIBILITY.
   All water meters connected to the water system shall be readily accessible
to the Department of Public Works or designee at any reasonable hour of any
business day. Subject to constitutional limitations, the refusal of admission
by any owner or occupant of any premises wherein a water meter is installed
after the owner or occupant has been notified that admission is desired for the
purpose of inspecting a water meter installed in the premises is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 1704.030) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.33 REPAIR, REPLACEMENT AND THE LIKE.
   Water meters shall be repaired or replaced from time to time as is necessary
to ensure accurate measuring of the flow of water. The cost of the repair or
replacement shall be borne by the city except that whenever a meter has been
damaged due to negligence on the part of the persons other than the employees
of the city, the owner, occupant or user of the premises or such other person
desiring the use of the water shall reimburse the city for the expense of
repairing or replacing any such meter. Upon failure to reimburse the city
within a reasonable time and upon demand therefor, the water service and supply
to the premises may be shut off or discontinued as determined to be in the best
interest of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1704.040) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990)
§ 52.34 TAMPERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, alter, bypass, or in any
manner whatsoever interfere with the proper use and functioning of any water
meter within the city.
(Prior Code, § 1704.050) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
GENERAL RATES AND CHARGES; BILLING AND COLLECTION PROCEDURES
§ 52.45 RATES AND CHARGES.  
   The rates and charges to be paid for municipal water service shall be as
established by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 1705.010) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990; Am. Ord. 7551, passed
1-19-2016)
§ 52.46 LIABILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   All water accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner of the property
served. The owner shall be liable for water supplied to his or her property and
any unpaid charges shall be a lien upon the property.
(Prior Code, § 1705.020) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990)
§ 52.47 METER READINGS.
   The City Council may provide a system of water meter reading by post card,
meter person, or any other method deemed suitable to the purpose by the
Council. The Council may also establish billing areas or districts and provide
for the reading of meters and billing charges by calendar quarters or monthly
or other periodic intervals as the City Council determines suitable and
necessary by resolution; provided, however, where meter reading is done by post
card, the City Council may established a penalty for failure to return water
meter reading card within the time designated on the card by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 1705.030) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990; Am. Ord. 7551, passed
1-19-2016)
§ 52.48 BILLING DATE, DUE DATE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The date of billing, the discount for payment within a prescribed
period and the penalty for failure to pay within a period shall be as
established by resolution.
   (B)   At the November 2015 City Council meeting, the Council approved moving
from a monthly utility billing system to a quarterly utility billing system for
the Lakeland Water Utility.
(Prior Code, § 1705.040) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990; Am. Ord. 7549, passed
12-15-2015; Am. Ord. 7551, passed 1-19-2016)
§ 52.49 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Penalties. A late payment fee of (see fee schedule) percent shall be
assessed on the unpaid portion(s) on all accounts with a past due balance. The
fee shall be set forth in the fee schedule which is duly adopted by resolution.
The unpaid portions and late payment penalty shall be due immediately.
   (B)   Shut-off for nonpayment. In the event a water bill is unpaid after the
due date as established by resolution, the bill shall be considered delinquent
and the service may be discontinued as provided in §
52.10.
   (C)   Certification for collection with taxes. 
      (1)   Unpaid charges on water accounts shall not be certified to the
County Auditor until notice and an opportunity for a hearing have been provided
to the owner of the premises involved. The notice shall be sent by first class
mail and shall state that if payment is not made before the date for
certification, the entire amount unpaid plus penalties and/or fees will be
certified to the County Auditor for collection as other taxes are collected.
The notice shall also state that the occupant may, before such certification
date, attend or schedule a hearing on the matter to object to certification of
unpaid utility charges. There shall be an administrative charge due upon the
mailing or electronic transmittal of the notice of the proposed assessment. The
administrative charge shall be set forth in the fee schedule which is duly
adopted by resolution.
      (2)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section if any
person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this section,
the City Council or any city official designated by it may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to procure payment.
         (a)   The owner of the property shall have the option of paying the
balance due on the account until the date the notice of the certification
hearing is mailed. After the date the notice of certification hearing is
mailed, payments will still be accepted but will include unpaid penalties and/
or fees.
         (b)   A hearing shall be held on the matter by the City Council.
Property owners with unpaid utility charges shall have the opportunity to
object to the certification of unpaid charges to be collected as taxes are
collected. If, after the hearing, the City Council finds that the amounts
claimed as delinquent are actually due and unpaid and that there is no legal
reason why the unpaid charges should not be certified for collection with taxes
in accordance with this section, the city may certify the unpaid charges to the
county auditor for collection as other taxes are collected.
         (c)   For each certification sustained, the property owner shall have
the following options after the hearing:
            1.   To pay the delinquent amount listed on the preliminary roll,
but without additional interest after the hearing, within 10 days of the
hearing date;
            2.   To pay the certified charges as billed to them by Washington
County on their property tax statement with a collection term of 1 year; and
            3.   After the hearing, the certified roll, minus any payments,
shall be delivered to Washington County.
(Prior Code, § 1705.050) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990; Am. Ord. 7554, passed
5-17-2016)
§ 52.50 INACCURATE OR INOPERATIVE METERS AND METER TESTS.
   (A)   If a water meter fails to register or accurately measure the water,
the charge for water consumed shall be paid for at the established rate based
upon past average billing determined by the Finance Director/Deputy Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a water user questions the accuracy of the meter, and
desires that the meter be tested, he or she shall pay a fee in the amount
established by ordinance if the meter tests accurate within a range of minus 3%
to plus 1-1/2%.
      (2)   If it is not accurate within this range, no charge will be made for
testing and an adjustment of the water bill will be made for the period of time
that the meter is assumed to be inaccurate, not to exceed 2 billing periods.
(Prior Code, § 1705.060) (Ord. 7460, passed 12-18-1990)
INDIVIDUAL WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
§ 52.60 GENERAL PURPOSE.
   The general purpose of this subchapter is to protect and promote the public
safety, general health, and welfare of the residents of this city, present and
in the future, by the regulation of the location, design, installation,
construction, repair, or extension of any individual water supply system within
the city.
(Prior Code, § 509.010) (Ord. 7438, passed 12-20-1983)
§ 52.61 ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   Provisions of M.S. §§ 144.011 et seq., as they may be amended from time to
time, and the regulations of the Department of Health adopted pursuant thereto
shall be applicable and in full force and effect in the city and the same are
hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 509.020) (Ord. 7438, passed 12-20-1983)
§ 52.62 APPLICATION.
   Before proceeding with the construction of a new well, the property owner or
his or her agent shall first obtain a permit for those purposes from the City
Clerk and shall pay a fee to be prescribed by resolution by the city from time
to time. The application for permit shall include certification by the
applicant that he or she has provided a true and correct copy of the
application to the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and the Department of
Health, advising them as to the specifications of the well proposed to be
drilled by the applicant, its location, depth, and other pertinent data. The
applicant shall also certify with his or her application that the well as
applied for meets or exceeds the recommendations of the Minnesota Department of
Health and Minnesota Pollution Control Agency regarding the depth, location,
and drilling criteria of the proposed well. Applications for permit shall
include any other information as may be reasonably required by the City Council
from time to time by ordinance, and the applicant shall also provide any other
information as may be requested by the City Clerk or Building Official for the
city.
(Prior Code, § 509.030) (Ord. 7438, passed 12-20-1983; Am. Ord. 7453, passed 9-
15-1987; Am. Ord. 7551, passed 1-19-2016)
§ 52.63 IMPLIED WARRANTY OF CONTRACT.
   This subchapter and each of the separate provisions thereof have been
enacted for the benefit and protection of property owners as well as the public
in general. Each and every contract, either written or oral, for the
performance of a type regulated by this subchapter, shall by implication
include a warranty and covenant on the part of the one who is to perform the
work. The work shall be performed strictly in accordance with the applicable
provisions of this subchapter, unless compliance to this subchapter has been
waived by order of the City Council for good cause shown.
(Prior Code, § 509.040) (Ord. 7438, passed 12-20-1983)
§ 52.64 GEOLOGICAL LOG.
   A geological log, as prescribed by the Minnesota Department of Health, of
the formations encountered in drilling each well shall be kept by the driller,
and a copy thereof should be filed with the city upon completion of the
drilling of any well within the city.
(Prior Code, § 509.050) (Ord. 7438, passed 12-20-1983)
NONESSENTIAL WATER USAGE
§ 52.75 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes water conservation restrictions; and the plan
will be in effect at any time the Governor declares by executive order a
critical water deficiency, pursuant to M.S. § 103G.291.
(Ord. 7560, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 52.76 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLERK. The person assigned duties pursuant to M.S. § 412.151.
   DEPARTMENT. The City of Lakeland municipal water department (for the Cities
of Lakeland, Lakeland Shores, Lake Saint Croix Beach and Saint Mary's Point).
   EMERGENCY. The declaration of a critical water deficiency by the Governor of
Minnesota.
   IRRIGATION. The watering of shrubs, trees, sod, seeded areas, gardens,
lawns, or any other outdoor vegetation, except outdoor vegetation utilized for
agricultural purposes.
   NOTIFICATION TO PUBLIC. Notification through local media, including
interviews and issuance of news releases.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLIER. The city or other entity that owns, manages, or
operates a public water supply, as defined in M.S. § 144.382, Subd 4.
   RECLAIMED WATER. Water collected from rooftops, paved surfaces, or other
collection devices and all water utilized more than once before re-entering the
natural water cycle.
   WATER RECIRCULATION SYSTEM. Any system which enables a user to reuse water
at least once prior to returning the water to the natural water cycle.
(Ord. 7560, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 52.77 APPLICATION.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to all customers of public water suppliers who
own or control water use on any premises.
   (B)   No person shall make, cause, use, or permit the use of water received
from a public water supply for residential, commercial, industrial,
governmental, or any other purpose in any manner contrary to any provision in
this subchapter.
   (C)   Mandatory emergency conservation measures shall be implemented based
upon the declaration of a critical water emergency by the Governor.
(Ord. 7560, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 52.78 DECLARATION OF CRITICAL WATER DEFICIENCY.
   Upon the declaration of a critical water deficiency by the Governor, the
public water supplier shall immediately post notice of the emergency
declaration at the usual meeting place of the City Council, or the official
city bulletin board. The city shall provide notification to the public as
quickly as possible or through established water supply plans emergency
response plans or procedures.
(Ord. 7560, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 52.79 MANDATORY EMERGENCY WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon declaration of a water emergency and notification to the public, the
following mandatory restrictions upon nonessential water use shall be enforced:
   (A)   Outdoor irrigation of yards, gardens, golf courses, parklands, and
other non-agricultural land, except for those areas irrigated with reclaimed
water, is prohibited.
   (B)   Washing or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, tennis
courts, patios, or other paved areas with water from any pressurized source,
including garden hoses, except to alleviate immediate health or safety hazards,
is prohibited.
   (C)   The outdoor use of any water-based play apparatus connected to a
pressurized source is prohibited.
   (D)   Restaurants and other food service establishments are prohibited from
serving water to their customers, unless water is specifically requested by the
customer.
   (E)   Operation of outdoor misting systems used to cool public areas is
prohibited.
   (F)   The filling of swimming pools, fountains, spas, or other exterior
water features is prohibited.
   (G)   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, and other types of
mobile equipment is prohibited, except at facilities equipped with wash water
recirculation systems, and for vehicles requiring frequent washing to protect
public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 7560, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 52.80 VARIANCES.
   The City Clerk or designee of, is authorized to grant variances to this
subchapter where strict application of its provisions would result in serious
hardship to a customer. A variance may be granted only for reasons involving
health or safety. An applicant may appeal the denial of a variance within 5
days of the decision by submitting a written appeal to the City Clerk. The City
Council shall hear the appeal at the next City Council meeting. The decision of
the City Council is final.
(Ord. 7560, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 52.81 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Administrator, City Clerk or designee is authorized to designate city
employees or law enforcement personnel to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 7560, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 52.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations §§
52.75 through
52.81 shall be determined and cited by the City Clerk or designee of. A
violator may appeal the citation within 5 days of its issuance by submitting a
written appeal to the city. The City Council shall hear the appeal at the next
City Council meeting. The decision of the City Council is final. Violators may
be granted an administrative waiver if evidence is provided that equipment
failure was the cause of the violation. A letter from a qualified vendor or
equipment invoice will be required to show proof of equipment failure.
      (1)   Upon discovery of a first violation, the violator shall be issued,
either personally or by mail, a warning letter that sets forth the violation
and which shall describe the remedy and fines for future violations.
      (2)   Upon subsequent violations at the same location, the violator shall
be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the
violation and shall describe the remedy.
      (3)   Fines shall be added to the monthly water bill of the owner or
current occupant of the premises where the violation occurred. The imposition
of the fine shall in no way limit the right of the city to pursue other legal
remedies.
   (B)   Unless otherwise designated, violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to the penalty provisions set forth in § 10.99 of this
code of ordinances. Each day that any violation is continued shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 509.060) (Ord. 7438, passed 12-20-1983; Ord. 7560, passed 2-20-
2018)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
State Highway Traffic Regulations
   
70.01   Adoption of state regulations
   
70.02   Seasonal load restrictions
   
70.03   Establishment of regulations authorizing the operation of motorized
golf carts or 4-wheel all-terrain vehicles on designated roadways
Vehicle Operation
   
70.15   Unnecessary acceleration of motor vehicle
   
70.16   Operation of motorized vehicles on bicycle and hiking trails;
prohibited
   
Appendix A:   Application for Special Vehicle Use Permit
STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, the provisions of M.S. Chapter 168 on
vehicle registration, taxation and sale; the Highway Traffic Regulation Act,
being M.S. Chapter 169; and M.S. §§ 160.27, 171.02, 171.03, 171.04, 171.05,
171.08, 171.11, 171.22, and 171.24, as they may be amended from time to time,
shall be applicable and in full force and effect in the city, and the same are
hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 1002.010) (Ord. 7447, passed 8-19-1986)
§ 70.02 SEASONAL LOAD RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   From March 20 to May 15 of each year or for any lesser periods of time
as may be authorized by resolution of the city from time to time, the weight on
any single axle shall not exceed 5 tons on any municipal street not otherwise
restricted as provided in M.S. § 169.87, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from
time to time. The gross weight on consecutive axles shall not exceed the gross
weight allowed in M.S. § 169.825, as it may be amended from time to time,
multiplied by a factor of 5 divided by 9. This reduction shall not apply to the
gross vehicle weight.
   (B)   The provisions hereof shall not apply to emergency vehicles and public
utility vehicles responding to requests for assistance, school buses, garbage
trucks, or other vehicles specifically authorized by prior written approval of
the Roads Commissioner of the City of Lakeland. The Roads Commissioner of the
city shall erect and maintain signs at reasonable locations within the city
affecting notice of the seasonal road restrictions imposed herein.
(Prior Code, § 1002.020) (Ord. 7447, passed 8-19-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF REGULATIONS AUTHORIZING THE OPERATION OF MOTORIZED
GOLF CARTS OR 4-WHEEL ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ON DESIGNATED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Adoption of regulations. The City Council for the City of Lakeland
does hereby adopt a system of regulations set forth below pursuant to M.S. §
169.045, as it may be amended from time to time, authorizing the operation of
motorized golf carts or 4-wheel all-terrain vehicles on specified roadways
within the city by permit only. The term MOTORIZED 4-WHEEL ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE
shall be as is defined in M.S. § 169.045, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   (B)   Designation of roadways. The roadways over which motorized golf carts
or 4-wheel all-terrain vehicles may be operated by way of permit within the
city will be designated by resolution of the City Council of the City of
Lakeland.
   (C)   Hours of operation.  Motorized golf carts and 4-wheel all-terrain
vehicles may be operated on designated streets within the city between sunrise
and sunset, and between April 1 and October 30.
   (D)   Term of permit.  Each permit shall be issued for a period of time not
to exceed 1 year and may be annually renewed through the office of the City
Clerk.
   (E)   Revocation.  Each permit issued by the city may be revoked by the City
Clerk at any time that probable cause exists to believe that the permittee
cannot safely operate the motorized golf cart and/or 4-wheel all-terrain
vehicle on the designated roadways. Upon revocation, the permittee shall have a
right of review before the City Council, should the review be requested in
writing. The review by the City Council shall be limited to determine whether
or not the City Clerk had probable cause to believe that the permittee cannot
safely operate the motorized golf cart or 4-wheel all-terrain vehicle on
designated roadways at the time of the revocation as implemented by the City
Clerk.
   (F)   Suspension of permit during periods of unsafe road conditions.
Motorized golf carts and 4-wheel all-terrain vehicles shall not be operated on
the city streets within the city during inclement whether or when visibility is
impaired by weather, smoke, fog, or other meteorological condition, or at any
time when there is insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on
the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   (G)   Slow-moving vehicle emblem/permit sticker.  All motorized golf carts
and/or 4-wheel all-terrain vehicles permitted under this section shall clearly
display the “Slow-Moving Vehicle” emblem provided for in M.S. § 169.522 and a
permit sticker issued by the city when operated on the designated roadways.
   (H)   Insurance. As part of any application for permit hereunder, persons
seeking permission to operate motorized golf carts or 4-wheel all-terrain
vehicles under this section shall provide proof of liability insurance
including mandatory automobile insurance levels existing under state statutes,
including no-fault coverage.
   (I)   Application of state laws.  The provisions of M.S. Chapter 171, as it
may be amended from time to time, are not applicable to persons operating
motorized golf carts or 4-wheel all-terrain vehicles under the permits issued
by the city on the designated roadways provided herein. Except for the
provisions of M.S. § 169.70, as it may be amended from time to time, the
provision of this subchapter relating to the equipment on vehicles is not
applicable to motorized golf carts or 4-wheel all-terrain vehicles operating
under permit on designated roadways.
   (J)   Observation of existing traffic laws. Every permittee and person
operating a motorized golf cart or a 4-wheel all-terrain vehicle under permit
on designated roadways has all of the rights and responsibilities and duties
applicable to a driver of any other motorized vehicle in the state under
provisions of M.S. §§ 169.01 et seq., as may be amended from time to time,
except when those provisions cannot be reasonably applied to motorized golf
carts or 4-wheel all-terrain vehicles under the strict interpretations thereof.
   (K)   Application. Application shall be provided on a form prescribed by the
City Clerk from time to time, such as set forth in
Appendix A to this chapter, and shall contain the information necessary for the
city to process the application, including detail and information otherwise
specified herein.
(Prior Code, § 1002.030) (Ord. 97-7475, passed 7-15-1997; Am. Ord. 7515, passed
6-16-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
VEHICLE OPERATION
§ 70.15 UNNECESSARY ACCELERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No persons shall start or accelerate any motor vehicle with an unnecessary
exhibition of speed on any public or private way within the city limits. Prima
facie evidence of such unnecessary exhibition of speed shall be the squealing
or screeching sounds emitted by the tires or the throwing of sand or gravel by
the tires of the vehicle, or both.
(Prior Code, § 1005.010) (Ord. 7421, passed 9-16-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.16 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES ON BICYCLE AND HIKING TRAILS;
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any motorized vehicle, except for
maintenance equipment authorized by the Public Works Director, upon any public
bicycle trail, hiking trail, beach or city park within the limits of the city.
   (B)   The use of snowmobiles will be permitted on the public bicycle/hiking
trail east of CSAH 18 between the November 1 of each year and April 1 of the
next year, inclusive, provided that the trail is snow-covered. The period of
time during which snowmobiles may be used on the east trail may be increased or
decreased by action of the City Council published in the official newspaper of
the city designating the inclusive dates when the use of snowmobiles shall be
permitted on the east trail. The City Council may rescind these permissions if
it is determined that these provisions do not comply with DNR requirements.
(Prior Code, § 1003.010) Penalty, see §
10.99
APPENDIX A:
APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL VEHICLE USE PERMIT
Applicant(s): Vehicle Type and Description:
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                         
Owner(s): Permitted Driver(s) and License Nos.:
                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                         
Insurance Co.:                                                            
Policy No.:                                                                
Agent:                                                                       
Telephone No.:                                                           
   I (We) acknowledge receiving a copy of §
70.03 of the City of Lakeland code and understand that any violation of the
terms and provisions thereof may result in cancellation/revocation of the
permit and impact any future applications I (we) may make.
Dated:                                                             By:
                                                           
Dated:                                                             By:
                                                           
Dated:                                                             By:
                                                          
Dated:                                                             By:
                                                           
   SPECIAL VEHICLE ROADWAY PERMIT
Permit No.:                                                       Issued:
                                                       
   Expires:                                                        
   Pursuant to §
70.03 of the city code of ordinances, a Special Vehicle Use Permit is hereby
issued to the Applicant listed above, for the vehicles listed above. All
vehicle operations must comply with the provisions of §
70.03 as currently exists and as may be amended by the City of Lakeland.
   This Permit is non-transferable and non-assignable and terminates as of 12:
01 a.m. on the date listed above.
   This Permit will terminate automatically should insurance coverage lapse or
cease for any reason and shall terminate immediately upon a revocation notice
being issued by the Office of the City Clerk.
   THE CITY OF LAKELAND
By:                                                               
   City Clerk
(Ord. 7475, passed 7-15-1997)
Click_here_to_view_the_above_application_in_a_PDF_document.
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking and Snow Removal
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   General parking regulations
   
71.03   Winter overnight parking prohibitions
PARKING AND SNOW REMOVAL
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOAT TRAILERS. Any single or multi-axle trailer designed and/or used for
transporting a boat, speedboat, sailboat, rowboat, canoe(s), kayak(s), raft(s),
jet ski(s), or water cruiser over a highway as the same is defined in M.S. §
168.011, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time, and otherwise
requiring a license and/or registration under M.S. §§ 168.011 et seq., as they
may be amended from time to time.
(Am. Ord. 7479, passed 4-21-1998)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any self-propelled motor vehicle or other vehicle on wheels
which would ordinarily travel on public streets.
   OWNER.  Includes any person, firm, association, or corporation owning,
renting, or having charge of a motor vehicle.
   RESIDENT. Any person or persons occupying and claiming as their principal
domicile a residential property within the city. The listed address on that
person's driver's license shall be conclusive evidence of his or her resident
status for the purposes of this subchapter.
(Am. Ord. 7478, passed 4-21-1998)
   SNOW-REMOVAL PERIOD. A period of time of no more than 48 hours after each
snowfall, except that the SNOW-REMOVAL PERIOD shall be deemed to have
terminated on those streets on which snow has been removed if the removal has
been completed in a period of time less than 48 hours.
   STREET. Any city right-of-way, street, avenue, or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 1004.010) (Am. Ord. 7498, passed 4-16-2002)
§ 71.02 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The owner of any vehicle parked or left standing upon any street within the
corporate limits of the city shall conform to and observe the regulations set
forth in the divisions which follow in regard to the parking thereof.
   (A)   Time limit for street parking. No vehicle will be left standing or
parked at the curb of any street or on any public place within the corporate
limits of this city for more than 48 continuous hours.
   (B)   Parking during snow-removal period.  No person, except physicians on
emergency calls or other emergency vehicles, shall park on any street in the
city during a snow-removal period, as defined above.
   (C)   Authorization of police to have vehicle moved. Whenever any police
officer finds a vehicle standing upon the street, highway, city parks, or
private property in violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter, the
officer is hereby authorized to move the vehicle or require the driver or
another person in charge of the vehicle to remove same, so as to correct the
violation of this subchapter. If the owner or operator of the vehicle is not
available to remove the vehicle, it shall be towed away from the parking place
at the discretion of the Sheriff's Department of the County of Washington, and
the owner of the vehicle, prior to having the same returned to him or her,
shall pay the cost of towing plus the cost of storage until claimed by the
owner. The payment of the sums shall be a prerequisite for the return of the
vehicle to the person entitled thereto.
   (D)   Damage to towed vehicle; liability.  Any damage occasioned to any
vehicle by these towing operations or the storage of the vehicle thereafter
shall be assumed by the owner or operator hereof, and no liability for damage
shall be assumed by the city.
   (E)   Parking on private property.  No person shall park a motor vehicle
upon private property owned or occupied by another individual or entity without
the express written consent of the owner of the private property.
(Am. Ord. 7461, passed 4-21-1992)
   (F)   Resident-only parking. The City Council for the City of Lakeland may
establish residential district areas within the city whereby on-street parking
shall be prohibited, except by municipal permit. Within all such districts so
established by resolution of the City Council, all on-street parking shall
require a municipal permit that is predominantly displayed so that the
municipal permit is visible from the outside of the vehicle. The City Council
may establish by ordinance from time to time the fee charged for municipal
permits to residents and nonresidents.
(Am. Ord. 7478, passed 4-21-1998; Am. Ord. 7484, passed 3-16-1999; Am. Ord.
7498, passed 4-16-2002)
   (G)   Designation of roadways for resident-only parking. The roadways on
which on-street parking shall be prohibited except by municipal permit are as
follows: All that portion of the City of Lakeland lying south of the south
right-of-way of Interstate 94, lying west of the St. Croix River, lying north
of the southerly right-of-way of Upper 5th Street North, and lying east of the
westerly right-of-way of CSAH 18; excepted therefrom shall be the right-of-way
adjacent to the City Hall property and Crocker Park. The following provisions
shall also apply to on-street parking along Quixote Avenue North, lying between
7th Street North and 6th Street North:
      (1)   On-street parking shall be limited to the residents of properties
with frontage along the improved, paved section of Quixote Avenue North,
specifically 735 Quixote Avenue North, 739 Quixote Avenue North, 711 Quixote
Avenue North, 730 Quixote Avenue North, and 745 Quixote Avenue North and no
other property or residence.
         (a)   One (colored orange) municipal parking permit for emergency
parking only shall be issued to the occupant(s) of 747 Quixote Avenue North,
which shall only be valid in times of temporary or permanent destruction of
alternative parking areas at Beanie's Marina, that is; during the period of
flood elevation of 684 feet or higher is reached by the adjacent St. Croix
River.
         (b)   Permits approved hereunder shall be displayed on the interior of
the vehicle.
      (2)   On-street parking shall not obstruct emergency vehicle access,
solid waste removal services and other municipal services, in accordance with §
159.158.
      (3)   The violation of any provision of this division (G) or the
violation of the conditions or provisions of any municipal permit issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be a petty misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, the violator shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
10.98 and otherwise permitted by law.
      (4)   Any vehicle parked in violation of this division (G) may be towed
and all costs of towing and storage to be paid by the vehicle owner.
      (5)   All permits not issued or otherwise in conformance herewith are
void.
(Am. Ord. 2024-20, passed 8-20-2024)
   (H)   Boat trailers. The City Council for the City of Lakeland may establish
by resolution from time to time areas within the city where the parking of boat
trailers shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 1004.020) (Am. Ord. 7479, passed 4-21-1998)
   (I)   Designation of roadways for boat trailer prohibition. The roadways on
which on-street parking of boat trailers shall be prohibited are as follows:
All that portion of the City of Lakeland lying south of the south right-of-way
of Interstate 94, lying west of the St Croix River, lying north of the
southerly right-of-way of Upper 5th Street North, and lying east of the
westerly right-of-way of CSAH 18; excepted therefrom shall be that portion of
7th Street North within the City of Lakeland lying between the St. Croix River
and the easterly right-of-way line of Quinnell Avenue North.
   (J)   General parking prohibitions. The City Council may establish areas
within the city whereby on-street parking shall be prohibited. All such
districts will be established by resolution of the City Council.
(Am. Ord. 7512, passed 2-19-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 WINTER OVERNIGHT PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Between November 1 and March 31 no motor vehicle shall be left
standing or parked on the streets of the city during the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
6:00 a.m. Any vehicle which shall be left parked or standing in violation of
the provisions hereof shall be removed without notice to the owner or operator
by the Washington County Sheriff's Department or persons employed by them with
the vehicle being stored in any appropriate place. All necessary costs and
expenses of towing, removing, and storage of the vehicles shall first be paid
by the person claiming the vehicle but before the release of same.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, any person owning or operating the
vehicle may be issued a citation pursuant to the provisions of §
10.99 hereof.
(Prior Code, § 1004.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Regulations
   
72.03   Street crossings
   
72.04   Right-of-way
   
72.05   Minors
   
72.06   Restrictions
   
72.07   Equipment
   
72.08   Locking
   
72.09   Emergency
   
72.10   Chasing animals
   
72.11   Trespass liability
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
72.30   Definitions
   
72.31   Regulations
   
72.32   Violations
SNOWMOBILES
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   METAL TRACTION DEVICE.  Any metal device or array of metal devices attached
to a snowmobile track to enhance traction, that is:
      (1)   Made of metal, except that metal cleats affixed perpendicular to
the direction of travel of a snowmobile track which was manufactured in 1981 or
earlier shall not be considered a METAL TRACTION DEVICE; or
      (2)   Affixed to a snowmobile track with metal components that extend
more than 1/4 inch from the bottom of the track.
(Am. Ord. 7513, passed 11-18-2008)
   OPERATE.  To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR.  Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER.  A person, other than a lien holder, having the property in or title
to a snowmobile entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   PERSONS. Includes an individual, partnership, corporation, the state and its
agencies and subdivisions, and any body of persons, whether incorporated or
not.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire strip of land traversed by a highway or street in
which the public owns the fee or an easement for roadway purposes.
   ROADWAY.  That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SNOWMOBILES. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow and ice or
natural terrain steered by wheels, skis, or runners.
   STREET.  A public thoroughfare, roadway, alley, or trail used for motor
vehicular traffic which is not an interstate, trunk, county state-aid, or
county highway.
(Prior Code, § 1001.010)
§ 72.02 REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within the
municipal limits of the city in any of the following locations:
(Am. Ord. 7444, passed 10-15-1985)
   (A)   On the portion of any right-of-way of any street, except the most
right-hand lane then available for traffic or as close as practicable to the
right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle stopped in that lane or proceeding in the same direction.
Snowmobiles may also be operated upon the outside slope of trunk, county state-
aid and county highways where the highways are so configured within the
corporate limits;
   (B)   On a public sidewalk provided for pedestrian travel;
   (C)   On boulevards within any public right-of-way;
   (D)   On private property of another without specific permission of the
owner or person in control of the property; and
   (E)   On any other public place except as may be specifically permitted by
other provisions of the city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1001.020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 STREET CROSSINGS.  
   A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street or highway, except an
interstate highway or freeway, provided:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
   (B)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way;
   (C)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard;
   (D)   In crossing a divided street or highway, the crossing is made only at
an intersection of the street or highway with another public street or highway;
and/or
   (E)   If the crossing is made between the hours of 1/2 hour after sunset to
1/2 hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced visibility, only if both
front and rear lights are on.
(Prior Code, § 1001.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No snowmobile shall enter any intersection without yielding the right-of-way
to any vehicles or pedestrians at the intersection, or so close to the
intersection as to constitute an immediate hazard.
(Prior Code, § 1001.040) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 MINORS.
   (A)   No person under 14 years of age shall operate on streets or the
roadway surface of highways or make a direct crossing of a trunk, county state-
aid, county highway, or township road as the operator of a snowmobile. A person
14 years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age, may operate a
snowmobile on streets and highways as permitted under this subchapter and make
a direct crossing of the streets and highways only if he or she has in his or
her immediate possession a valid snowmobile safety certificate issued by the
Commissioner, as provided by M.S. § 84.872.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile to permit the snowmobile
to be operated contrary to the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 1001.050) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within the limits of
the city:
   (A)   At any place, while under the influence of alcohol or drugs as defined
in M.S. §§ 152.01 and 340A.101, as they may be amended from time to time, which
is hereby incorporated herein by reference;
   (B)   At any rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all
surrounding circumstances;
   (C)   At any place in a careless, reckless, or negligent manner or
heedlessly in disregard of the rights or safety of others, or in a manner so as
to endanger or be likely to endanger or cause injury or damage to any person or
property;
   (D)   During the hours from 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.;
   (E)   So as to tow any person or thing in a public street or highway except
through use of a rigid tow bar attached to the rear of the snowmobile;
   (F)   Within 100 feet of any fisherman, pedestrian, skating rink, or sliding
area where the operation would conflict with the use or endanger other persons
or property;
   (G)   Within the corporate limits of the city the speed limit must not
exceed 30 m.p.h.; and/or
(Prior Code, § 1001.060)
   (H)   Which has installed a metal traction device.
(Am. Ord. 7513, passed 11-18-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile any place within the
limits of the city unless it is equipped with the following:
   (A)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass, straight pipe or similar device on
a snowmobile motor;
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile under any condition of operation;
   (C)   A safety or so-called "deadman" throttle in operating condition. A
SAFETY OR DEADMAN THROTTLE is defined as a device which, when pressure is
removed from the engine accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be
disengaged from the driving track;
   (D)   When operated between the hours of 1/2 hour after sunset to 1/2 hour
before sunrise or at times of reduced visibility, at least 1 clear lamp
attached to the front, with sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles
at a distance of at least 100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness under
normal atmospheric conditions. The headlamp shall be so aimed that glaring rays
are not projected into the eyes of an oncoming snowmobile operator. It shall be
equipped with at least 1 red tail lamp having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light plainly visible from a distance of
500 feet to the rear during hours of darkness of under normal atmospheric
conditions; and/or
   (E)   Reflective material at least 16 square inches on each side, forward to
the handlebars, so as to reflect light at a 90-degree angle.
(Prior Code, § 1001.070) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.08 LOCKING.
   Every person leaving a snowmobile on a public place shall lock the ignition,
remove the key, and take the same with him or her.
(Prior Code, § 1001.080)
§ 72.09 EMERGENCY.
   Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this subchapter, a snowmobile may be
operated on a public thoroughfare in an emergency during the period of time
when, and at locations where, snow upon the roadway renders travel by
automobile impractical.
(Prior Code, § 1001.090)
§ 72.10 CHASING ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful to intentionally drive, chase, run over, or kill any animal
with a snowmobile.
(Prior Code, § 1001.100) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.11 TRESPASS LIABILITY.
   Owners of land or persons in control thereof shall not be liable for any
claim from persons operating snowmobiles thereon in violation of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1001.110)
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 72.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV or UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLE or UMV. Any motorized
trail bike, mini-bike, 2-, 3-, 4-, or 6-wheel motor vehicle not licensed for
travel on any public street or highway pursuant to the provisions of M.S.
Chapters 168, 169, and 171, as they may be amended from time to time. Prima
facie evidence of the vehicle being unlicensed shall be the absence of any
license plate being displayed upon the vehicle as required by law.
(Prior Code, § 1006.010) (Ord. 7444, passed 10-15-1985)
§ 72.31 REGULATIONS.
   No person shall operate an ATV or UMV within the municipal limits of the
city except as follows:
   (A)   On private property of the owner of the ATV or UMV;
   (B)   Upon private property of another with the specific written permission
of the owner or person in control of the property; or
   (C)   In areas specifically designated by resolution of the City Council of
the City of Lakeland from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1006.020) (Ord. 7444, passed 10-15-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.32 VIOLATIONS.
   For provisions concerning violations of this subchapter, refer to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 1006.030) (Ord. 7444, passed 10-15-1985)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND SAFETY
         
92.   PUBLIC PARKS AND RECREATION
         
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; ENVIRONMENT; NUISANCES
         
94.   ALARM SYSTEMS
         
95.   COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT
         
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Control of Dogs and Cats
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Restraint of domestic animals
   
90.03   Exemptions
   
90.04   Animal Control Officer
   
90.05   Animal Warden
   
90.06   Interference with enforcement
   90.07   Kennels
   90.08   Seizure of dogs or cats; impounding
   90.09   Impounding and boarding fees
   90.10   Coordination with veterinarians
Rabies Regulations
   
90.25   Rabies inoculation of dogs and cats
   
90.26   Animal bites and animals exposed to rabies
Prohibitions; Duties of Owners
   
90.40   Running at large prohibited
   
90.41   Females in heat
   
90.42   Abandonment prohibited
   
90.43   Dangerous dog prohibition
   
90.44   Cruelty
   
90.45   Nuisances
   
90.46   Sanitation
Ownership of Wild Animals
   
90.60   Purpose
   
90.61   Definitions
   
90.62   Exceptions; permit required
   
90.63   Impounding of wild animals
   
90.64   Existing wild animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
CONTROL OF DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. To leave a dog or cat at large within the city without intending
to return to or recover it. It shall also mean to purposefully leave a dog or
cat in the possession of the Animal Warden to avoid paying impoundment and/or
boarding costs.
   ALTERED. Any female dog or cat that has been spayed or any male dog or cat
that has been castrated.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.  The City Council and/or any persons or agencies
designated by the City Council. The Animal Control Officer's primary function
involves enforcement of §§
90.01 through
90.10,
90.25,
90.26, and
90.40 through
90.46 and other laws dealing with dogs or cats. The ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER
shall also be construed to include any licensed law enforcement officer.
   ANIMAL WARDEN.  Any person or agency designated by the City Council to
house, hold, confine, or board dogs or cats seized and/or impounded herein. The
ANIMAL WARDEN shall be appointed and serve at the pleasure of the City Council.
   AT LARGE.  Off the premises of the owner and not under the physical control
(by leash) of the owner, a member of the owner's immediate family, or a person
designated by the owner.
   BONA FIDE LIVESTOCK OPERATION.  A farm (of 40 acres or more in size) on
which horses, cows, swine, poultry, sheep, goats, or other common farm animals
are kept, raised, bred, or sold as a part of a business enterprise.
   CAT. Any animal wholly or in part of the species Felis domesticus.
   DANGEROUS DOG and POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Have the meanings ascribed to
those terms by M.S. § 347.50, as it may be amended from time to time, and
specifically as follows:
      (1)   DANGEROUS DOG means any dog that has:
         (a)   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a
human being on public or private property;
         (b)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the
owner's property; or
         (c)   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner has
noticed that the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog aggressively bites,
attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG means any dog that:
         (a)   When unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human or domestic animal on
public or private property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack; or
         (c)   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack,
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      (3)   The terms DANGEROUS DOG and POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG shall also be
construed to include similar classifications from other statutes or ordinances
which are substantially in conformity with M.S. § 347.50, as it may be amended
from time to time, whether or not the same words are used.
   DOG.  Any animal wholly or in part of the species Canis familiaris.
   KENNEL. Any place where 4 dogs or more over 6 months are kept, raised, sold,
boarded, bred, shown, treated, or groomed.
      KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any place where 4 or more of any type of domestic
pets over 6 months of age are kept, raised, boarded, bred, shown, trained,
groomed or offered for sale, and where services are provided for a fee.
      KENNEL, PRIVATE.  Any place where 4 or more of any type of domestic pets
over 6 months of age are owned by any member or members of the household.
   OWNER. Any person or the parents or guardians of a person under 18 years of
age who owns, harbors, keeps, or has custody of a dog or cat.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, firm, or group, however
organized.
   PREMISES. The space of ground immediately surrounding a dwelling house and/
or outbuildings.
(Prior Code, § 1401.010) (Ord. 7470, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 90.02 RESTRAINT OF DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   No person owning, keeping, or harboring any domestic animal shall allow same
to run at large within the city. It is hereby made the duty of every owner or
possessor of any domestic animal to keep same on his or her premises unless
restrained by chaining or leash not exceeding 6 feet while off the owner's
premises or within a vehicle being driven or parked on a public street. The
term AT LARGE shall be as defined within this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1401.015) (Ord. 7468, passed 9-19-1995) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   Except where duties are expressly stated, this subchapter does not apply to
hospitals, clinics, and other premises operated by licensed veterinarians
exclusively for the care and treatment of dogs or cats.
(Prior Code, § 1401.020) (Ord. 7470, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 90.04 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   The Animal Control Officer shall have police powers necessary for
enforcement of this chapter, including authority to issue complaints for
violations.
(Prior Code, § 1401.030) (Ord. 7470, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 90.05 ANIMAL WARDEN.
   The City Council may appoint an Animal Warden and establish compensation for
that position. This person or agency shall serve at the pleasure of the City
Council. The City Council shall annually review the work and compensation of
the Animal Warden.
(Prior Code, § 1401.040) (Ord. 7470, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 90.06 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   No unauthorized person shall break open the Animal Warden's pound or attempt
to do so, or to take or let out any animals therefrom, or to take or attempt to
take from any Animal Control Officer or Animal Warden any dog or cat taken up
by him or her in compliance with the city ordinance or statute, or in any
manner to interfere with or hinder the Animal Control Officer or Animal Warden
in the discharge of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 1401.050) (Ord. 7470, passed 10-15-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 KENNELS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a commercial kennel unless a permit to
operate the same has been secured from the City Council in advance.
(Prior Code, § 1401.070) (Ord. 7470, passed 10-15-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 SEIZURE OF DOGS OR CATS; IMPOUNDING.
   Any person may seize, impound, or restrain any dog or cat found running at
large, or any dog or cat without a veterinarian's metal tag attesting to its
rabies vaccination. Any person or officer (other than the Animal Warden)
impounding or restraining the dog or cat shall immediately deliver the same to
the Animal Warden. If the animal is collarless, the Animal Warden shall
immediately ascertain whether the dog or cat has a tattoo as a means of
identification. The Animal Warden shall thereupon give notice to the owner of
the impoundment or, if the owner is unknown, or cannot reasonably be reached,
shall post notice of the impoundment at the City Hall (and at other places as
may be designated by the City Council). If the dog or cat is not claimed within
10 calendar days of the posted notice and all fees and charges paid, the Animal
Warden shall place the dog or cat in the custody of a suitable person or shall
humanely euthanize the animal. Any dog or cat restrained or impounded shall
receive humane treatment and sufficient food, water, and shelter.
(Prior Code, § 1401.160) (Ord. 7470, passed 10-15-1996; Am. Ord. 7543, passed
3-17-2015)
§ 90.09 IMPOUNDING AND BOARDING FEES.
   (A)   The Animal Warden may charge reasonable impounding fees for the care
and board of any dog or cat restrained or impounded, and any and all fees so
imposed shall be paid to the Animal Warden at the time of reclaiming the dog or
cat. The City Council shall annually review all fees so imposed by the Animal
Warden to determine their reasonableness and may, by ordinance, impose
additional fees reasonably related to the necessary and reasonable expenses
incurred by the city for the capture, transportation, and/or care of impounded
dogs or cats. All these fees must be paid to the Animal Warden prior to release
of the animal. The Animal Warden shall issue a receipt to the owner evidencing
the payment.
   (B)   In the case where an animal has been impounded whose rabies
vaccination is not current, no dog or cat shall be released unless the owner
agrees to have the dog or cat vaccinated within 3 days from the time of
release. At the time of the dog's or cat's release, the owner shall be required
to sign a document acknowledging that the dog's or cat's rabies vaccination is
not current. The Animal Warden shall immediately provide a copy of the document
to the City Clerk and to the appropriate law enforcement officer. It shall be
the responsibility of the dog or cat owner to have the dog or cat vaccinated as
provided in §
90.26. If evidence of the required vaccination is not received by the City
Clerk within the specified 3-day period, a citation may be issued.
(Prior Code, § 1401.180) (Ord. 7470, passed 10-15-1996; Am. Ord. 7543, passed
3-17-2015)
§ 90.10 COORDINATION WITH VETERINARIANS.
   The city may enter into agreements with veterinarians to assist in the
administration of the provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.10,
90.25,
90.26, and
90.40 through
90.46. These agreements shall ensure that an orderly system is set up to
coordinate the licensing, vaccination, impoundment, quarantine, and/or
euthanization, as needed, of dogs or cats within the city. This agreement shall
also provide for a reasonable method of compensating veterinarians for the
services that they provide to the city.
(Prior Code, § 1401.190) (Ord. 7470, passed 10-15-1996)
RABIES REGULATIONS
§ 90.25 RABIES INOCULATION OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   All dogs or cats in the city over the age of 6 months shall be
inoculated for rabies and shall be re-inoculated according to standard
veterinary practices thereafter. The vaccination must be performed by or under
the direct supervision of a veterinarian duly licensed to practice veterinary
medicine in the state in which the vaccine is administered. A certificate from
the veterinarian inoculating the dogs or cats shall be exhibited to the Animal
Control Officer and/or Animal Warden upon demand.
   (B)   Each dog or cat shall wear a sturdy collar for aid in identification
with the veterinarian’s metal tag showing proof of the current rabies
inoculation. At the owner’s discretion, a tattoo or implanted microchip may be
used in lieu of the collar and tag if the tattoo and chip identification
numbers are placed on file at the city.
(Prior Code, § 1401.080) (Ord. 7470, passed 10-15-1996; Am. Ord. 7543, passed
3-17-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 ANIMAL BITES AND ANIMALS EXPOSED TO RABIES.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer or Animal Control Officer may enter upon
the private property of any person while in pursuit of any dog or cat under
probable cause to believe that the dog or cat has bitten a person or animal, or
that the dog or cat is rabid.
   (B)   Division (A) notwithstanding, whenever any person who owns, possesses,
or harbors any dog or cat within the city learns that the dog or cat has bitten
any human being, the person shall immediately quarantine the dog or cat for a
period of at least 10 days, keeping it apart from other animals until it is
determined whether the dog or cat has rabies. The quarantine may be by the
person owning the dog or cat, if the dog or cat has a current rabies
vaccination at the time the bite occurred. If the dog or cat does not have a
current rabies vaccination at the time the bite occurred, the dog or cat must
be impounded at a licensed pound or with a licensed veterinarian at the owner’s
expense. After the required 10-day quarantine, the dog or cat shall be examined
by a licensed veterinarian to ensure that there are no clinical signs of
rabies. If the dog or cat is found to be rabid, it shall be humanely
euthanized.
   (C)   If the dog or cat owner cannot be located or advised of the dog or cat
bite within 2 hours of the occurrence, or if the owner fails to quarantine the
dog or cat as required by this subchapter, the Animal Control Officer shall
cause the dog or cat to be impounded and so quarantined. After the required 10-
day quarantine, if the dog or cat is still unclaimed, the dog or cat shall be
humanely euthanized and tested for rabies; if claimed, the dog or cat shall be
examined by a licensed veterinarian to ensure there are no clinical signs of
rabies. If no signs of rabies are observed, the dog or cat can be released to
the owner as specified in §
90.09(B). If the dog or cat is found to be rabid, it shall be humanely
euthanized.
   (D)   The Animal Warden, Animal Control officer, or other designate of the
city shall have the authority to verify if the dog or cat is properly
quarantined. Any veterinarian quarantining an animal shall notify the Animal
Warden before the release of the animal.
   (E)   Any dog or cat known to have been bitten by a rabid dog or cat or
exposed to rabies shall be impounded. If, however, the dog or cat is at large
and cannot be apprehended after reasonable effort, the dog or cat may be
immediately destroyed. After impoundment, if proof of rabies immunization is
furnished and booster injections are given by a licensed veterinarian at the
expense of the owner, the dog or cat may be released to the owner as specified
in §
90.09(B). If it cannot be proven that the animal has a current rabies
immunization, the owner may, at his or her discretion, make provision for a
suitable quarantine for a period of not less than 6 months.
(Prior Code, § 1401.090) (Ord. 7470, passed 10-15-1996; Am. Ord. 7543, passed
3-17-2015) Penalty, see § 90.99
PROHIBITIONS; DUTIES OF OWNERS
§ 90.40 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
    It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat of any person who owns, harbors, or
keeps a dog or cat to run at large. A person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog
or cat which runs at large shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs or cats on a
leash and accompanied by a responsible person or accompanied by and under the
control and direction of a responsible person, so as to be effectively
restrained by command as by leash, shall be permitted in streets or on public
land unless the city has posted an area with signs reading "Dogs or Cats
Prohibited."
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41 FEMALES IN HEAT.
   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or other
secure enclosure in such manner that the female cannot come in contact with
another dog or cat, except for the express purpose of planned breeding, or
shall be controlled on a leash while being exercised.
(Prior Code, § 1401.150) (Ord. 7470, passed 10-15-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.42 ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall abandon any dog or cat within the city.
(Prior Code, § 1401.110) (Ord. 7470, passed 10-15-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.43 DANGEROUS DOG PROHIBITION.
   (A)   It shall be illegal for any person to own, keep, possess, or harbor
any dog that has been declared a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog.
This prohibition shall apply whether the declaration has occurred in the city
or in some other jurisdiction. This prohibition shall also apply whether the
declaration was made pursuant to M.S. § 347.50, as it may be amended from time
to time, or pursuant to another statute or ordinance which is substantially
similar to M.S. § 347.50.
      (1)   If a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog has bitten a
person, then the dog shall first be quarantined according to the provisions of
§
90.26(B). Following the quarantine period, then the provisions of divisions (A)
(2) and (3) of this section shall apply.
      (2)   The Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer shall
immediately seize and impound any dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog
that is found within the city. The dog will be kept no fewer than 10 calendar
days. The owner has until the end of this time period to provide written
verification that the dog will be legally removed from the city, or that the
dog will be euthanized. The owner must pay all associated impounding and
boarding costs prior to the release of the dog. Upon its release, the dog shall
be immediately transported to a location outside of the city, or to a proper
facility to be euthanized.
      (3)   Any such dog that is not properly claimed within 10 calendar days
shall be humanely euthanized. The owner of the dog that is euthanized shall be
responsible to pay the impounding, boarding, and euthanization costs.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to police dogs under the control of a
licensed law enforcement officer during the performance of official police
activities.
(Prior Code, § 1401.130) (Ord. 7470, passed 10-15-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.44 CRUELTY.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to provide any dog or cat with humane care and
treatment, sufficient good and wholesome food and water, proper shelter and
protection from the weather, and veterinary care when needed to prevent
suffering.
   (B)   No person shall beat, cruelly ill treat, neglect, or otherwise abuse
any dog or cat, or cause or permit any dog or cat fight or other combat between
dogs or cats and humans.
(Prior Code, § 1401.140) (Ord. 7470, passed 10-15-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.45 NUISANCES.
   (A)   The following are public nuisances and unlawful:
      (1)   Any dog or cat that damages property (that is not the property of
the owner), including plantings, lawns, or structures, or that deposits fecal
matter off of the owner's property that the owner fails to remove promptly;
      (2)   Any dog or cat that, without provocation, chases, molests, or
approaches pedestrians or bicyclists in a threatening manner upon the streets,
sidewalks, right-of-way, or any public property, or habitually chases
automobiles on the public streets or highways;
      (3)   Any dog or cat that is kept under unsanitary and/or inhumane
conditions such that the maintenance or keeping of the animal creates odors to
the annoyance of the public in the vicinity;
      (4)   Any dog or cat that kills or attacks another domestic animal or
livestock without provocation while off the owner's property; and
      (5)   The owning, keeping, or harboring of any dog or cat which shall by
any noise, unreasonably and/or excessively disturb the peace and quiet of any
person in the vicinity. The phrase UNREASONABLY AND/OR EXCESSIVELY DISTURB THE
PEACE AND QUIET shall include but is not limited to the creation of any noise
by a dog or cat which can be heard by any person, including an Animal Control
Officer or law enforcement officer, from a location off the dog or cat owner's
property where the dog or cat is being kept, and which noise occurs repeatedly
over at least a 5-minute period of time with 1 minute or less lapse of time
between each animal noise during the 5-minute period. This provision shall not
apply to dogs and cats that are responding to trespassers or to dogs and cats
that are teased or similarly provoked to bark or meow.
   (B)   Any person may, by telephone, notify the City Clerk, Animal Control
Officer, or law enforcement officer of an alleged violation of this subchapter.
A telephone call does not, however, constitute a formal complaint to initiate
the citation process. All formal complaints shall be submitted in writing to
the attention of the City Clerk and shall describe the dog or cat, state the
acts committed by the dog or cat, the name and address of the person owning or
harboring the dog or cat, and the name and the address of the person making the
complaint. The City Clerk shall then promptly notify the person owning or
harboring the dog or cat of the acts complained of, either by letter or door
tag, and shall request that the nuisance be abated or eliminated within a
specified time period. The City Clerk shall also cause the Animal Control
Officer or law enforcement officer to investigate and file a report on the
complaint.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a second complaint of a violation of this subchapter,
the City Clerk shall cause the Animal Control Officer or law enforcement
officer to investigate and file a second report on the complaint. If the
offense is corroborated by the investigation, the City Clerk shall, by
certified letter, notify the person owning or harboring the dog or cat of the
violations complained of, and require that the nuisance be abated or eliminated
within 24 hours or some other reasonable time specified in the letter. A copy
of the letter shall be mailed to the Animal Control Officer and a copy shall be
mailed to the person making the complaint.
   (D)   If the owner fails to take corrective action within 24 hours (or
within the time specified in the letter), the City Clerk shall contact the
appropriate law enforcement agency and/or the City Attorney, inform them of the
alleged violation, and request that the owner be cited.
(Prior Code, § 1401.120) (Ord. 7470, passed 10-15-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.46 SANITATION.
   Any person who owns, keeps, or harbors any dog or cat must remove all dog or
cat feces, on a daily basis, from all enclosed dog or cat runs or kennels, and
must remove, on a daily basis, any accumulations of dog or cat feces which are
visible from any location outside the borders of that person's property.
(Prior Code, § 1401.170) (Ord. 7470, passed 10-15-1996)
OWNERSHIP OF WILD ANIMALS
§ 90.60 PURPOSE.
   To protect the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Lakeland, it
shall be unlawful to keep any wild animal within the corporate limits of the
city, except as permitted pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1402.010) (Ord. 93-7464, passed 12-21-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WILD ANIMAL. Includes any mammal, amphibian, or reptile which is of a
species which is wild by nature or of a species which, due to size, vicious
nature, or other characteristic is dangerous to human beings. Examples include
but are not limited to:
      (1)   Any large cat of the family Felidae, such as lions, tigers,
jaguars, leopards, cougars, and ocelots, except commonly accepted domesticated
house cats;
      (2)   Any member of the family Canidae, such as wolves, foxes, coyotes,
dingo, and jackals, except domesticated dogs;
      (3)   Any crossbreed such as crossbreeds between dogs and coyotes, or
dogs and wolves, but does not include crossbred domesticated animals;
      (4)   Any poisonous snake such as rattlesnake, coral snake, water
moccasin, puff adder, or cobra;
      (5)   Any snake or reptile which by its size, vicious nature, or other
characteristic is dangerous to human beings;
      (6)   Any skunk, raccoon, or ferret unless certified by a veterinarian to
be free of rabies;
      (7)   Any bear, ape, gorilla, monkey (except as exempted by this
subchapter), or badger; and
      (8)   Any other animal or reptile which is commonly considered wild and
not domesticated.
(Prior Code, § 1402.020) (Ord. 93-7464, passed 12-21-1993)
§ 90.62 EXCEPTIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person desiring to keep an animal prohibited by this subchapter
may apply for a temporary conditional use permit from the City Council. The
permit may be issued for a period not to exceed 30 days and shall specify
conditions under which the animals shall be kept; provided, however, that no
such permit shall be issued unless the prohibited animal is brought into the
city for entertainment, exhibition, or show purposes only, or by persons
keeping animals for a public zoo as volunteers, docents, or otherwise. (A
public zoo or other institution engaged in a permanent display of animals, any
bona fide research institution or veterinary hospital may be issued a permanent
special use permit, provided applicable zoning requirements are met.)
   (B)   Nonpoisonous snakes or snakes not prohibited by this subchapter, birds
kept indoors, hamsters, mice, rabbits, gerbils, white rats, guinea pigs,
chinchillas, or lizards, and similar small animals capable of being kept in
cages continuously are also exempt and do not require a permit.
   (C)   Disabled persons may keep monkeys trained as personal helpers by
special use permit subject to annual review.
   (D)   The raising of wild animals for pelts may be permitted by special use
permit, provided all applicable zoning requirements and all applicable state
requirements are met.
   (E)   Before issuance of any temporary or permanent conditional or special
use permit, the applicant shall provide the city with proof of insurance,
including public liability insurance with limits of not less than $100,000. The
insurance shall provide coverage for liability resulting from the ownership or
possession of the specific animal or animals being permitted.
(Prior Code, § 1402.030) (Ord. 93-7464, passed 12-21-1993)
§ 90.63 IMPOUNDING OF WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any wild animal kept in violation of this subchapter may be impounded
by the city. Unless the impounded animal is reclaimed and removed from the
city, or issued a permit to allow it to remain in the city, or unless the owner
petitions the District Court for a determination that the animal is exempt from
the provisions of this subchapter, the animal may be destroyed or sold 5 days
following notice to the owner of the animal of its impoundment and the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person reclaiming any such animal shall pay the costs of
impounding and boarding the same at the time of its release.
(Prior Code, § 1402.040) (Ord. 93-7464, passed 12-21-1993)
§ 90.64 EXISTING WILD ANIMALS.
   Anyone keeping or maintaining any wild animals at the time this subchapter
is adopted has 90 days in which to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter. Extensions beyond 90 days may be granted by the City Council for
good cause, but in no case shall the extension permanently exempt a person from
the requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1402.060) (Ord. 93-7464, passed 12-21-1993)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.10,
90.25,
90.26, and
90.40 through
90.46 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 1401.210) (Ord. 7470, passed 10-15–1996)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
90.60 through
90.64 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $700
or by imprisonment not exceeding 90 days in the County Jail, or both.
(Ord. 93-7464, passed 12-21-1993)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION AND SAFETY
Section
   
91.01   Adoption of Fire Code
   
91.02   Establishment and duties
   
91.03   Appeals
   
91.04   New construction and renovation
   
91.05   House/building numbers
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of related provisions in state law, see §
150.01
§ 91.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, that certain code and standards known as the International Fire
Code, 2006 edition, published by the International Code Council, Inc., and the
Minnesota Fire Code, being particularly the 2007 edition thereof and the whole
thereof. One copy of these codes must be and are now filed in the office of the
Clerk of the city and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated in full as
if set out at length herein, and from the date on which this chapter shall take
effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 505.010) (Ord. 7514, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 91.02 ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Fire Code shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire Department of
the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire Protection District.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department may appoint a Fire Marshal and detail
such members of the Fire Department as inspectors as shall from time to time be
necessary. The Chief of the Fire Department shall recommend to the Lower St.
Croix Valley Fire Protection District the employment of technical inspectors
who, when the authorization is made, shall be selected through an examination
to determine their fitness for the position. The examination shall be open to
members and nonmembers of the Fire Department, and appointments made after
examination shall be for an indefinite term with removal only for cause.
(Prior Code, § 505.020) (Ord. 7439, passed 8-21-1984)
§ 91.03 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief disapproves an application or refuses to grant a permit
applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the Code do not apply
or that the intent and true meaning of the Code had been misconstrued or
wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the Chief to
the city within 30 days of the date of the decision appealed.
(Prior Code, § 505.030) (Ord. 7439, passed 8-21-1984)
§ 91.04 NEW CONSTRUCTION AND RENOVATION.
   All plans and specifications for new construction and renovation of
commercial or public buildings shall be submitted to and reviewed by the Fire
Department and Fire Prevention Officer prior to the issuance of the building
permit.
(Prior Code, § 505.040) (Ord. 7439, passed 8-21-1984)
§ 91.05 HOUSE/BUILDING NUMBERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessor, and/or occupant of every
house, apartment, duplex, industrial, commercial, or other building to have
house and/or building numbers clearly displayed thereon, either by affixing to
the building or signpost the numbers in metal, glass, plastic, or other durable
material. The numbers shall not be less than 3 inches in height, in a
contrasting color to the base (i.e., white numbers on red base). The numbers
shall be so placed as to be easily and clearly seen from the street when
approached from either direction. The numbers shall be so placed and all
buildings affected hereby shall comply from and after February 1, 1987. All
accessory structures (as that term is defined within the Zoning Code,
Chapter 159) are not affected by this section.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator and/or Building Inspector for the city shall
be responsible for maintaining order in the numbering system, and shall assign
numbers for all properties within the city upon request.
(Prior Code, § 505.045) (Ord. 7446, passed 8-19-1986)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable pursuant to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 505.050) (Ord. 7439, passed 8-21-1984)
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
92.01   Hours of use
   
92.02   Unlawful uses; permits
§ 92.01 HOURS OF USE.
   All public parks and picnic areas (not owned in the name of the State of
Minnesota) and all public beaches within the limits of the city shall be open
for the use of the general public between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 1501.010)
§ 92.02 UNLAWFUL USES; PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to make use of,
frequent, or be upon any public park, picnic area (unless as otherwise provided
by state laws) or any public beach located within the limits of the city within
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to any person operating a hot air balloon or any
other aircraft to use any public park for an unlicensed landing area, for the
purpose of landing or taking off, except as may be specifically authorized by
prior written approval of the Park Commissioner of the city. For the purposes
hereof, M.S. § 360.55, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time, and 14
MCAR §§ 1.3014 A, B, C, and D are hereby adopted by reference and the
provisions thereof shall be applicable and in full force and effect in the
city.
   (C)   Sale, service, and consumption of alcoholic beverages in public
places; restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any person to mix, prepare,
take, use, possess, sell, serve or consume alcoholic beverages in or upon any
public park, picnic area or any public beach in the city.
   (D)   Violations. Any person violating any division of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
according to law.
(Prior Code, § 1501.020) (Ord. 7437, passed 11-16-1983; Am. Ord. 7540, passed
10-15-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
Editor's note:
   The administrative regulations cited in division (B) of this section, the
Minnesota Code of Agency Rules, have been replaced by the Minnesota Rules.
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SANITATION; ENVIRONMENT; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
93.01   Public nuisance
   
93.02   Public nuisances affecting health
   
93.03   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
93.04   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
93.05   Nuisance parking and storage
   
93.06   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
93.07   Building maintenance and appearance
   
93.08   Duties of city officers
   
93.09   Abatement
   
93.10   Recovery of cost
Tree Diseases
   
93.20   Position of City Forester
   
93.21   Duties of Forester
   
93.22   Nuisance declared
   
93.23   Inspection and investigation
   
93.24   Abatement of Dutch elm disease and oak wilt nuisance
   
93.25   Procedure of removal of infected tree and wood
   
93.26   Spraying elm or oak trees
   
93.27   Transportation and storage of elm wood within the city
   
93.28   Interference prohibited
Weeds
   
93.40   Short title
   
93.41   Jurisdiction
   
93.42   Definitions; exclusions
   
93.43   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
93.44   Filing complaint
   93.45    Abatement by city
   93.46    Liability
 
   
93.99   Penalty
NUISANCES
§ 93.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Whoever by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty intentionally
does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is
a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures,
or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort, or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage any
public highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or §§
93.02 through
93.04, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance and for which no
sentence is specifically provided.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse, or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste, or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking, and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame, and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Chapter 7030, as it
may be amended from time to time, which is hereby incorporated by reference
into this code;
   (E)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all terrain vehicle, snowmobile or any recreational device
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
   (F)   The using or operation or permitting the using or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or
other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly
audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of any person
nearby. Operation of any device referred to above between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line
of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50
feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of violation of this section;
   (G)   No person shall participate in any party or other gathering of people
giving rise to noise, unreasonably disturbing the peace, quiet, or repose of
another person. When a police officer determines that a gathering is creating
such a noise disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than
the owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to
disperse immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a
police officer to do so. Every owner or tenant of the premises who has
knowledge of the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the
disturbance is stopped;
   (H)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (I)   Radio aerials or television antennas erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (J)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (K)   All hanging signs, awnings, and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (L)   The allowing of rain water, ice, or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (M)   Any barbed wire fence less than 6 feet above the ground and within 3
feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (N)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (O)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (P)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes, or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health, or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (Q)   Any well, hole, or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (R)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter, or ditch with trash or other materials;
   (S)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk, or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (T)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (U)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone;
   (V)   (1)   Noises prohibited.  
         (a)   General prohibition. No person shall make or cause to be made
any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or welfare of
any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property's
value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of
this section.
         (b)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person shall use any vehicle so
out of repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling, or other noise.
         (c)   Loading, unloading, unpacking. No person shall create loud or
excessive noise in loading, unloading, or unpacking any vehicle.
         (d)   Radios, phonographs, paging systems, and the like. No person
shall use or operate or permit the use or operation of any radio receiving set,
musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine, or other device for the
production or reproduction of sound in a distinct and loudly audible manner as
to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of any person nearby.
Operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine, or other device
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly
audible at the property line of the structure or building in which it is
located, in the hallway or apartment adjacent, or at a distance of 50 feet if
the source is located outside a structure or building, shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
         (e)   Schools, churches, hospitals, and the like. No person shall
create any excessive noise on a street, alley, or public grounds adjacent to
any school, institution of learning, church, or hospital when the noise
unreasonably interferes with the working of the institution or disturbs or
unduly annoys its occupants or residents and when conspicuous signs indicate
the presence of the institution.
      (2)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
         (a)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill, or
other similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
         (b)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or
refuse in any residential district except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on
any weekend or holiday.
         (c)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
      (3)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person
applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any
structure, operation, process, installation, or alteration or project that may
be considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the Council. It shall evaluate each statement and take its
evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or permit
applied for or the zoning change requested.
   (W)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and 1 footcandle when abutting
any commercial or industrial parcel;
   (X)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel and 1 footcandle when abutting
any commercial or industrial parcel; and
   (Y)   Removal by any person except the city's recycling contractor, city
personnel, law enforcement, or the property owner of any recycling materials
from recycling containers placed at curbside for collection by the city's
recycling contractor.
(Ord. 7505, passed 9-20-2005) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it:
      (1)   Obstructs views on streets and private property;
      (2)   Creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas;
      (3)   Prevents the full use of residential streets for residential
parking;
      (4)   Introduces commercial advertising signs into areas where commercial
advertising signs are otherwise prohibited;
      (5)   Decreases adjoining landowners' and occupants' enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and
      (6)   Otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood
patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of ice fish houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses, or other similar non-
permanent structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front
yard area of residential property unless more than 100 feet back from the front
property line.
      (2)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery, or similar materials, including all
materials used in connection with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or fence.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit, or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements:
         (a)   No more than 4 vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be parked
or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of nonresidential characteristics of
the property. This maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional
guests who do not reside on the property.
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front yard
area must be on a paved or graveled parking or driveway area.
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft, and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store, or abandon any motor
vehicle which is not in operating condition, partially dismantled, used for
repair of parts, or as a source of repair or replacement parts for other
vehicles, kept for scrapping, dismantling, or salvage of any kind, or which is
not properly licensed for operation with the state, pursuant to M.S. §
168B.011, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in a building
and/or kept out of view from any street, road or alley, and which does not
foster complaint from a resident of the city. A privacy fence is permissible.
   (C)   Any motor vehicles described in this section constitute a hazard to
the health and welfare of the residents of the city in that the vehicles can
harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter and breeding place for vermin and
present physical danger to the safety and well-being of children and citizens;
and vehicles containing fluids which, if released into the environment, can and
do cause significant health risks to the city.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences, and other structures that
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they:
      (1)   Are unsightly;
      (2)   Decrease adjoining landowners' and occupants' enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and
      (3)   Adversely affect property values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Standards. A building, fence, or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.
      (2)   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked, chipped, or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:
         (a)   Any 1 wall or other flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters, and similar
projections on any 1 side or surface.
      (3)   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, may be
broken or cracked, and no screens may be torn or separated from moldings.
      (4)   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
      (5)   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay or dormer windows, and
similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from cracks and
defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.
      (6)   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that admit water.
All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly.
      (7)   Chimneys, antennas, air vents, and other similar projections must
be structurally sound and in good repair. These projections must be secured
properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
      (8)   Foundations must be structurally sound and in good repair.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   For purposes of this section and §
93.09, the Sheriff or person designated by the City Council under §
10.20, if the city has at the time no Police Department, may enforce the
provisions relating to nuisances. Any member of the Sheriff's Department or
designated person shall have the power to inspect private premises and take all
reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance of public
nuisances. Except in emergency situations of imminent danger to human life and
safety, no police officer or designated person shall enter private property for
the purpose of inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission
of the owner, resident, or other person in control of the property, unless the
officer or person designated has obtained a warrant or order from a court of
competent jurisdiction authorizing the entry, as provided in §
10.20.
§ 93.09 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place,
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
a member of the Sheriff's Department or designated person on the owner of
record or occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or
registered mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is
unknown, or the owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of
violation, notice of violation shall be served by posting it on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in M.S. § 463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard
Building Act), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S. § 463.17
(Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   Procedure. Whenever a member of the Sheriff's Department or designated
person determines that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the
premises in the city, the officer or person designated shall notify in writing
the owner of record or occupant of the premises of the fact and order that the
nuisance be terminated or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the
steps to be taken to abate the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance
is to be abated. If the notice of violation is not complied with within the
time specified, the officer or designated person shall report that fact
forthwith to the City Council. Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice
to the owner or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that the
condition identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order
that if the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City
Council, the city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the City
Council order and notice of motion for summary enforcement or obtain an
administrative search and seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of this section will permit a continuing
nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with
summary enforcement, the officer or designated person shall determine that a
public nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in the city and that
delay in abatement of the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health,
safety, or welfare. The officer or designated person shall notify in writing
the occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance and of the
city's intention to seek summary enforcement and the time and place of the City
Council meeting to consider the question of summary enforcement. The City
Council shall determine whether or not the condition identified in the notice
to the owner or occupant is a nuisance, whether public health, safety, or
welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in abatement required to
complete the procedure set forth in division (A) of this section, and may order
that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If the nuisance is not
immediately terminated or abated, the City Council may order summary
enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk or other official shall
prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount
shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk shall,
on or before September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list the
total unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as other charges for
current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from
time to time, against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are
attributable. The City Council may then spread the charges against the property
under that statute and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County
Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding 10, as the City Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see §
93.99
TREE DISEASES
§ 93.20 POSITION OF CITY FORESTER.  
   The powers and duties of the City Forester as set forth herein are hereby
conferred upon the persons or employees within the Public Works Department whom
the Council shall deem appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 1502.010)
§ 93.21 DUTIES OF FORESTER.
   It is the duty of the City Forester to coordinate, under the direction and
control of the Council, all activities of the municipality relating to the
control and prevention of Dutch elm, oak wilt, or similar plant pests or plant
diseases. The City Forester shall recommend to the Council the details of a
program for the control of Dutch elm disease, oak wilt, or similar plant pests
or plant diseases, and perform the duties incident to the program adopted by
the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1502.020)
§ 93.22 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (A)   Declaration. The following things are public nuisance wherever they
may be found within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with Dutch elm disease fungus, Ceratocystis ulmi (Buisman) Moreau, or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles, Scolytus multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hylurgopinus rufipes (Marsh.);
      (2)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the oak wilt fungus, Ceratocystis fagacearum; and
      (3)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including logs, branches,
stumps, firewood, or other elm material from which the bark has not been
removed and burned or sprayed with an effective bug beetle insecticide.
   (B)   Abatement. It is unlawful for any person to permit any public nuisance
as defined in division (A) of this section to remain on any premises owned or
controlled by him or her within the city. The nuisance may be abated in the
manner prescribed by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1502.030) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Annual inspection. The Forester shall inspect all premises and places
within the city as often as practicable to determine whether any condition
described in §
93.22 of this subchapter exists thereon. The Forester shall investigate all
reported incidents of infestation by Dutch elm fungus or elm bark beetles.
   (B)   Entry on private premises. The Forester or his or her duly authorized
agents may enter upon private premises at any reasonable time for the purpose
of carrying out any of the duties assigned under this subchapter.
   (C)   Diagnosis. The Forester shall, upon finding conditions indicating
Dutch elm infestation or oak wilt, immediately send appropriate specimens or
samples to the Commissioner of Agriculture for analysis, or take any other
steps for diagnosis as may be recommended by the Commissioner. Except as
provided in §
93.26, no action to remove infected trees or wood shall be taken until positive
diagnosis of the disease has been made.
(Prior Code, § 1502.040)
§ 93.24 ABATEMENT OF DUTCH ELM DISEASE AND OAK WILT NUISANCE.
   In abating the nuisances defined in §
93.22, the Forester shall cause the infected tree or wood to be sprayed,
removed, burned, or otherwise effectively treated as to destroy and prevent as
fully as possible the spread of Dutch elm disease fungus and elm bark beetles
or oak wilt fungus. The abatement procedures shall be carried out in accordance
with current technical and expert opinions and plans as may be designated by
the Commissioner of Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 1502.050)
§ 93.25 PROCEDURE OF REMOVAL OF INFECTED TREE AND WOOD.
   Whenever the Forester finds with reasonable certainty that the infestation
defined in §
93.22 exists in any tree or wood in any public or private place in the city, he
or she shall proceed as follows:
   (A)   (1)   If the Forester finds that the danger of infestation of other
elm or oak trees is not imminent because of elm dormancy or other
circumstances, he or she shall make a written report of his or her finding to
the Council which shall proceed by:
         (a)   Abating the nuisance of a public improvement under M.S. Chapter
429, as it may be amended from time to time; or
         (b)   Abating the nuisance as provided in §
93.22(B).
      (2)   If the Forester finds that the danger of infestation of other elm
or oak trees is imminent, he or she shall notify the abutting property owner by
certified mail that the nuisance will be abated within a specified time, not
less than 5 days from the date of mailing of the notice. The Forester shall
immediately report the action to the Council, and after the expiration of the
time limited by the notice, he or she may abate the nuisance.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the Forester's report required by division (A) of this
section, the Council shall by resolution order the nuisance abated. Before
action is taken on the resolution, the Council shall publish notice of its
intention to meet to consider taking action to abate the nuisance. The notice
shall be mailed to affected property owners and published once no less than 1
week prior to the meeting. The notice shall state the time and place of the
meeting, the streets affected, action proposed, the estimated cost of the
abatement, and the proposed basis of assessment, if any, of costs. At the
hearing or adjournment thereof, the Council shall hear property owners with
reference to the scope and desirability of the proposed project. The Council
shall thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the original resolution with the
modifications as it considers desirable and provide for the doing of the work
by day labor or by contract.
   (C)   The Forester shall keep a record of the costs of abatements done under
this section and shall report monthly to the City Clerk all work done for which
assessments are to be made, stating and certifying the description of the land,
lots, parcels involved, and the amount chargeable to each.
   (D)   On or before September 1 of each year, the Clerk shall list the total
unpaid charges for each abatement against each separate lot or parcel to which
they are attributable under this subchapter. The Council may then spread the
charges or any portion thereof against the property involved as a special
assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, and
other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection
the following year along with current taxes.
(Prior Code, § 1502.060)
§ 93.26 SPRAYING ELM OR OAK TREES.
   (A)   Whenever the Forester determines that any elm or oak tree or elm or
oak wood within the city is infected with Dutch elm fungus or oak wilt fungus,
he or she may spray all nearby high value elm or oak trees with an effective
elm bark beetle destroying concentrate or other appropriate substance suitable
for destroying or controlling Dutch elm disease fungus or oak wilt fungus.
Spraying activities authorized by this section shall be conducted in accordance
with technical and expert opinions and plans for the Commissioner of
Agriculture and under the supervision of the Commissioner and his or her agents
whenever possible.
   (B)   The notice provisions of §
93.25 apply to spraying operations conducted under this section.
(Prior Code, § 1502.070)
§ 93.27 TRANSPORTATION AND STORAGE OF ELM WOOD WITHIN THE CITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport within the city any
diseased elm with bark intact without having obtained a permit from the
Forester. The Forester shall grant such permits only when the purpose of this
subchapter shall be served thereby.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store within the city any
diseased elm with bark intact between April 1 and September 15 of each calendar
year. Provisions for municipal storage of diseased elm or other wood for public
disposal and/or suitable purpose may be established by resolution of the City
Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1502.080) (Ord. 7427, passed 9-15-1981) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.28 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
Forester or his or her agents while they are engaged in the performance of
duties imposed by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1502.090) Penalty, see §
93.99
WEEDS
§ 93.40 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the “Weed Ordinance.”
(Am. Ord. 7528, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 93.41 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or county
ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
(Am. Ord. 7528, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 93.42 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION. Includes but is not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Alum (allium), buckthorn, bur cucumber, Canada thistle,
corncockle, cressleaf groundsel, curly dock, dodder, field bindweed, French
weed, hairy whitetop, hedge bindweed, hoary cress, horsenettle, johnsongrass,
leafy spurge, mile-a-minute weed, musk thistle, oxeye daisy, perennial
sowthistle, poison hemlock, purple loosestrife, quackgrass, Russian knapweed,
Russian thistle, serrated tussock, shatter cane, sorghum, wild carrot, wild
garlic, wild mustard, wild onion, and wild parsnip;
         (b)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for 2 consecutive years;
         (c)   Bushes of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as Berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
         (d)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers,
or other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12 inches;
         (e)   RANK VEGETATION includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth
of annuals and perennial plants;
         (f)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants
or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
(Am. Ord. 7528, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 93.43 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting, or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice is in
excess of 12 inches in height.
   (B)   Any weeds or grass growing on any lot or parcel of land in the city in
excess of 12 inches in height or which have gone or about to go to seed, are
hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the health, safety and good
order of the city.
(Am. Ord. 7528, passed 6-21-2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.44 FILING COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the City Clerk. If the city makes the complaint, an employee,
officer or Council member of the city shall file the complaint in all respects
as set out above.
   (B)   When weeds or grasses growing on any lot or parcel of land in the city
are in excess of 12 inches in height or which have gone to seed, it shall be
the duty of the City Clerk to serve notice on the owner, occupant or agent of
the lot or parcel of land, ordering such owner or agent to have such weeds or
grass cut and removed within 10 days from the date of this letter and stating
that in case of non-compliance, the removal will be done by the city at the
owner’s expense.
(Am. Ord. 7528, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 93.45 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   (A)   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply within 10
days, the city shall cut and remove such weeds or grass, the city shall
determine the cost of said cutting/removal and charge the owner of the premises
therewith. If the property owner does not pay said cost, the city will, no
later than the first day of October each year, certify unpaid balances together
with a description of the property and name of the owner; and such charge shall
be collected and collection enforced in the same manner as taxes against said
property.
   (B)   Such charge shall be a perpetual lien on said premises until paid.
Where no owner, occupant or agent can be found, or when unknown, the city may
proceed without service of said notice.
(Am. Ord. 7528, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 93.46 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorney’s
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the city uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Clerk and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for expenses and
costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Am. Ord. 7528, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise designated, violation of any provision of §§
93.01 through
93.10, including maintaining a nuisance after being notified in writing by
first-class mail of a violation of any provision of this chapter, shall be a
misdemeanor and punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall neglect, cut or remove weeds, grass, brush, or
other vegetation as directed in §§
93.40 through
93.46; or who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with the provisions of
any notice herein provided; or who shall violate any of the provisions of that
subchapter; or who shall resist or obstruct the city or its employees in the
cutting and removal of weeds, grass, brush, and other vegetation shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and each day upon which the violation shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1504.060) (Am. Ord. 7528, passed 6-21-2011)
CHAPTER 94: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Intrusion alarm systems
   
94.04   Fire or emergency medical alarm systems
   
94.05   City permit
   
94.06   Unauthorized fires
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to encourage security, fire, or medical
alarm users and alarm businesses (including but not limited to sales,
installation, and/or monitoring) to maintain the operational reliability and
the proper use of alarm systems so as to limit unnecessary police, fire, and
emergency medical responses to false alarms and alarm malfunctions.
   (B)   This chapter governs burglary, robbery, intrusion, fire, and medical
emergency false alarms, provides for service fees for excessive false alarms,
and provides for issuance of citations in lieu of assessing the service fees.
(Prior Code, § 1505.010) (Ord. 98-7481, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SITE.  A single premises or location, or a multi-tenant location,
served by an alarm system or systems.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanical, electrical, or radio-controlled device or
system which is designed to emit, transmit, or relay a signal or message and
which, when activated, is intended to summon, or that would reasonably be
expected to summon, police, fire, or emergency medical services. An ALARM
SYSTEM does not include:
      (1)   An alarm installed on a vehicle, unless the vehicle is permanently
located at a site; or
      (2)   An alarm designed to alert only inhabitants of a premises, and
which does not constitute a local alarm.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of an alarm system signal or message which
elicits notification to and/or response by the Washington County Sheriff's
Office when there is no evidence of a crime, fire, medical emergency, or other
activity which warrants a call for immediate police, firefighting, or emergency
medical assistance. This may include but is not limited to an alarm discovered
by a police officer or firefighter before notification of an alarm from a
monitor or from a local alarm system that is not monitored.
   FIRE OR EMERGENCY MEDICAL ALARM. A system or portion of a combination system
consisting of components and circuits arranged to monitor and annunciate the
status of fire or medical emergency or supervisory signal initiating devices
which are intended to summon fire or emergency medical services of the
Washington County Sheriff's Office.
   INTRUSION ALARM. A robbery, burglary, panic, or other alarm intended to
summon the police, which is designed either to be initiated purposely by a
person or by an alarm system that responds to a stimulus characteristic of
unauthorized intrusion.
   LOCAL ALARM. An alarm system that emits a signal at an alarm site that is
audible or visible from the exterior of the structure.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE.  A fire that is less than 3 feet in diameter and burning
wood or logs less than 3 inches in diameter. A RECREATIONAL FIRE is not
intended for disposal of brush, garbage, or trash, and shall not require a
permit.
(Am. Ord. 99-1505-7483, passed 2-16-1999)
   UNAUTHORIZED FIRE.  An unauthorized fire shall constitute the burning of
materials without a permit under circumstances where the same does not
constitute a recreational fire.
   WARNING NOTICE.  A notification provided to the owner or person in charge of
an alarm site by the Washington County Sheriff's Office for alarms due to
system malfunction or when no reason can be determined for the false alarm. The
warning notice will require the alarm system be inspected and/or serviced
within 5 working days with written documentation submitted to the Sheriff's
Office that the system is in working order.
(Prior Code, § 1505.020) (Ord. 98-7481, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 94.03 INTRUSION ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Each time the Washington County Sheriff's Office responds to a false
intrusion alarm due to system malfunction or when no reason can be determined
for the false alarm, the Washington County Sheriff's Office shall issue a false
alarm warning notice.
   (B)   A service fee for excessive false intrusion alarms shall be charged as
follows:
      (1)   No service fee shall be charged for the first 3 false alarms
occurring within a 12-month period, calculated from the date of the first such
alarm.
      (2)   Each false alarm in excess of 3 and up to and including 6 within a
12-month period shall result in a service fee per false alarm as set forth in §
33.01.
      (3)   Each false alarm in excess of 6 within a 12-month period shall
result in a service fee per false alarm as set forth in §
33.01.
   (C)   No service fee shall be assessed if the false alarm is:
      (1)   Caused by an electrical storm, tornado, or other act of God when
there is clear evidence of physical damage to the alarm system;
      (2)   Caused by the intermittent disruption of telephone circuits beyond
the control of the alarm site owner;
      (3)   Caused by electrical power disruption or failure in excess of 2
hours beyond the control of the alarm site owner; or
      (4)   At a location where the Washington County Sheriff's Office has
installed the Varda or other similar alarms.
   (D)   All false alarm service fees are due and payable within 30 days from
date of invoice. In the event that false alarm service fees are not paid as
required by this chapter, the Washington County Sheriff's Officer may refer the
matter to the City Attorney for appropriate legal action, including but not
limited to certifying same for collection against the real property taxes as
with other unpaid municipal services.
   (E)   A person commits an offense in violation of this chapter if the person
suffers or permits false alarms in excess of 3 within a 12-month period, each
false alarm constituting a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 1505.030) (Ord. 98-7481, passed 7-21-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 FIRE OR EMERGENCY MEDICAL ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Each time the Washington County Sheriff's Office and/or the Lower St.
Croix Valley Fire Protection District responds to a false alarm due to system
malfunction, or when no reason can be determined for the false alarm, the
Washington County Sheriff's Office or the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire
Protection District shall issue a warning notice.
   (B)   A service fee for excessive false alarms shall be charged as follows:
      (1)   No service fee shall be charged for the first 3 false alarms
occurring within a 12-month period, calculated from the date of the first such
alarm.
      (2)   Each false alarm in excess of 3 and up to and including 6 within a
12-month period shall result in a service fee per false alarm as set forth in §
33.01.
      (3)   Each false alarm in excess of 6 within a 12-month period shall
result in a service fee per false alarm as set forth in §
33.01.
   (C)   No service fee shall be assessed if the false alarm is:
      (1)   Caused by an electrical storm, tornado, or other act of God where
there is clear evidence of damage to the alarm system;
      (2)   Caused by the intermittent disruption of telephone circuits beyond
the control of the alarm site owner; or
      (3)   Caused by electrical power disruption or failure in excess of 2
hours beyond the control of the alarm site owner.
   (D)   All false alarm service fees are due and payable within 30 days from
date of invoice. In the event that false alarm service fees are not paid as
required by this chapter, the Washington County Sheriff or the Lower St. Croix
Valley Fire Protection District may refer to the matter to the City Attorney
for appropriate legal action, including but not limited to certifying same for
collection against real property taxes as with other unpaid municipal services.
   (E)   A person commits an offense in violation of this chapter if the person
suffers or permits false alarms in excess of 3 within a 12-month period, each
false alarm constituting a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 1505.040) (Ord. 98-7481, passed 7-21-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.05 CITY PERMIT.
   (A)   All persons installing alarm systems for fire, police, or medical
emergency within any residential or commercial structure within the city shall
obtain a permit therefor at the offices of the City Clerk for the City of
Lakeland.
   (B)   The permit shall be without fee and shall be on a form prescribed by
the City Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 1505.050) (Ord. 98-7481, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 94.06 UNAUTHORIZED FIRES.
   (A)   Each and every time that the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire Protection
District responds to an unauthorized fire, the District shall assess a service
charge to the property owner and/or persons conducting the unauthorized fire.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall keep on file at City Hall the current rates
charges by the Lower St. Croix Valley District.
   (C)   All unauthorized fire service fees will be billed directly to the
property owner and/or persons conducting the unauthorized fire by the Lower St.
Croix Valley Fire District. All fees are due and payable within 30 days of the
date of invoicing. In the event the unauthorized fire fee is not paid as
required by this chapter, it shall be assessed to the property taxes.
(Prior Code, § 1505.060) (Am. Ord. 99-1505-7483, passed 2-16-1999)
CHAPTER 95: COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT
Section
Towers and Antennas
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Preferences for antenna and support structure locations
   
95.04   Dimensional requirements
   
95.05   Permit requirements
   
95.06   Antenna regulations in all districts
   
95.07   Amateur radio antenna and towers
   
95.08   Effect on existing towers
   
95.09   Inspections and violations
Transmission of Telecommunications or Related Services in the Public Ground
   
95.20   Definitions
   
95.21   Permit procedure
   
95.22   Restoration and relocation
   
95.23   Company default
   
95.24   Indemnification
   
95.25   Other conditions of use
   
95.26   Effective date and applicability to existing facilities
   
95.27   Acceptance of requirements
   
95.28   Public ground other than right-of-way
   
95.29   Regulations; permit schedules
TOWERS AND ANTENNAS
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   In order to accommodate the communication needs of residents and businesses
(while protecting the public health, safety, and general welfare of the city),
the Council finds that these regulations are necessary in order to:
   (A)   Minimize adverse visual effects of towers through artful design and
siting standards;
   (B)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through structural standards and setback requirements; and
   (C)   Maximize the use of existing and approved towers and buildings to
accommodate multiple antennas in order to reduce the number of towers needed to
serve the city.
(Prior Code, § 600.010) (Ord. 7477, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMATEUR RADIO ANTENNA. Any equipment or device used to transmit, receive or
transmit/receive electromagnetic signals for "Amateur Radio Service"
communications as defined in 47 C.F.R. Part 97.3(4), and as used in 47 C.F.R.
Part 97.15(a).
   ANTENNA.  Any device, which by use of any means is designed to transmit or
receive any electromagnetic, microwave, radio, television, or other frequency
energy waves, of any type, for any purpose.
   ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any building, pole, telescoping mast, tower,
tripod, or any other structure which supports an antenna.
   REGISTERED ENGINEER. An engineer who is registered in accordance with the
laws of the State of Minnesota.
   STRUCTURE, PUBLIC.  An edifice or building of any kind, or any piece of work
artificially built up or comprised of parts jointed together in some definite
manner which is owned, or rented and operated by a federal, state, or local
government agency.
(Prior Code, § 600.020) (Ord. 7477, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 95.03 PREFERENCES FOR ANTENNA AND SUPPORT STRUCTURE LOCATIONS.
   When selecting sites for the construction of new antenna support structures
and/or for the placement of new antenna, the following preferences shall be
followed:
   (A)   Preferred land use areas.
      (1)   Industrial zoned property;
      (2)   Freeway development corridors in nonresidential areas, at least
1,000 feet from the edge of the road right-of-way to the antenna support
structure;
      (3)   Public land or structures;
      (4)   Athletic complexes, public parks, and golf courses;
      (5)   Parking lots if the monopole replicates, incorporates, or
substantially blends with the overall lighting standards of the lot;
      (6)   Private open land when the structure is in accordance with city
regulations; and
      (7)   Other land use areas where towers and antennas have been defined as
conditional uses upon the grant of a special use permit, as designated in the
Zoning Regulations,
Chapter 159.
   (B)   Preferred support structures.
      (1)   Water towers;
      (2)   Co-location on existing antenna support structures;
      (3)   Church steeples;
      (4)   Sides of buildings - over 2 stories high; and
      (5)   Existing power, lighting, or phone poles.
   (C)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No new support structures shall be approved, at any location other
than a preferred land use area, unless the applicant shows to the reasonable
satisfaction of the city that the locations are not feasible from an
engineering standpoint.
      (2)   No new support structures shall be approved for construction,
unless the applicant shows, to the reasonable satisfaction of the city, that a
preferred support structure is not feasibly available for use from an
engineering standpoint.
(Prior Code, § 600.030) (Ord. 7477, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 95.04 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Zoning districts. In addition to the districts specified below, any
proposed antenna or tower must meet the requirements of any zoning overlay
district, e.g., flood zone and the Lower St. Croix Bluffland/Shoreland
Management Ordinance, as set forth in Title XV of this code of ordinances.
      (1)   Residential districts. Towers are not allowed in any residential
district (R-1, R-3). Antennas are allowed if not greater than 15 feet higher
than the supporting structure. The total height of the antenna and structure
shall not exceed 35 feet.
      (2)   Business districts. Towers are not allowed in any business district
(RB). Antenna, if placed on the roof or exterior of the building, must not be
greater than 15 feet higher than the supporting structure. The total height of
the supporting structure and antenna shall not exceed 45 feet.
      (3)   Agricultural district. Towers under 45 feet are allowed in this
district. Towers over 45 feet are allowed with a special use permit. Towers
over 150 feet are not allowed. Antennas are allowed if the height of the
supporting structure plus the antenna is not greater than 60 feet. Any proposed
antenna where the antenna plus the supporting structure would be greater than
60 feet and less than 150 feet requires a special use permit.
   (B)   Exceptions to maximum height restrictions.  The maximum height
restrictions in division (A) of this section shall not apply to public
structures used as an antenna support structure. Additionally, no antenna may
extend more than 15 feet above its antenna support structure.
   (C)   Setback requirements.  In all districts, all antenna support
structures shall be set back from the nearest property line at least a distance
equal to the height of the antenna support structure. This provision does not
apply to existing antenna support structures unless the structure is enlarged
or structurally modified.
   (D)   Minimum land requirements. Minimum land area for freestanding
monopoles on vacant properties in residential districts shall be 5 acres.
   (E)   Distance from residences.  
      (1)   Antenna support structures of up to 150 feet in height shall not be
constructed within 300 feet of any residential structure.
      (2)   Antenna support structures of over 150 feet in height shall not be
constructed within 500 feet of any residential structure.
(Prior Code, § 600.040) (Ord. 7477, passed 11-18-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.05 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General rule. Except as indicated below, special use permits are
required before any antenna or antenna support structure is installed or
constructed. Applications for special use permits shall be made on forms
available from the city and shall be processed in the manner as are other
special use permits pursuant to the city's zoning ordinance,
Chapter 159. In reviewing an application, the City Council shall consider the
advice and recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Commission and the effect
of the proposed use upon the health, safety, convenience, and the general
welfare of occupants of surrounding lands, the effect on property values of
property in the surrounding areas, and the effect of the proposed use on the
Comprehensive Plan. The Council shall maintain a written record regarding the
basis for its determination for each application and shall issue its
determination to each applicant in writing.
   (B)   Administrative permits.  
      (1)   An administrative permit may be issued by the City Administrator to
any applicant whom the City Administrator determines has complied with all of
the terms, requirements, regulations, and conditions of this subchapter for the
following:
         (a)   Antennas to be constructed on a public structure;
         (b)   Satellite dish antennas larger than 6.56 feet but smaller than
19.69 feet in size; and
         (c)   Antennas or antenna support structures erected temporarily for
test purposes or for emergency communications. TEMPORARY shall mean that the
antenna or support structure is removed within 72 hours following the
termination of testing or emergency communication needs.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the City Administrator's decision shall be
entitled to appeal that decision to the City Council.
   (C)   No permits required.  No permits are required for the following:
      (1)   Household television antennas extending less than 15 feet above the
highest point of a residential structure;
      (2)   Satellite dish antennas 2 meters or less in size;
      (3)   Adjustment, repair, or replacement of the elements of an antenna,
provided that the work does not constitute a clear safety hazard; and
      (4)   Antennas and antenna support structures used by the city for city
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 600.050) (Ord. 7477, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 95.06 ANTENNA REGULATIONS IN ALL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following standards shall apply to all antennas and antenna
support structures:
      (1)   All obsolete and unused antennas and antenna support structures
shall be removed within 12 months of cessation of operation at the site, unless
an exemption is granted by the Zoning Administrator. After the facilities are
removed, the site shall be restored to its original or an improved condition.
The city may require that a letter of credit be posted with the city to
guarantee compliance with this provision.
      (2)   All antennas shall be constructed in compliance with city building
and electrical codes.
      (3)   Structural design, mounting, and installation of the antenna shall
be in compliance with manufacturer's specifications. The plans shall be
approved and certified by a registered professional engineer at the owner's
expense.
      (4)   When applicable, written authorization for antenna erection shall
be provided by the property owner.
      (5)   No advertising message shall be affixed to the antenna structure.
      (6)   The height of the antenna shall be the minimum necessary to
function satisfactorily, as verified by a registered electrical engineer.
      (7)   Antennas shall not be artificially illuminated and must not display
strobe lights unless required by law or by a governmental agency to protect the
public's health and safety. When incorporated into the approved design, the
tower may support light fixtures used to illuminate ballfields, parking lots,
or other similar areas.
      (8)   When applicable, proposals to erect new antennas shall be
accompanied by any required federal, state, or local agency licenses.
      (9)   No new antenna support structures shall be constructed if it is
feasible to locate the proposed new antenna(s) on existing support structures.
Feasibility shall be determined according to generally accepted engineering
principles. If a new antenna support structure is to be constructed, it shall
be designed structurally and electrically to accommodate both the applicant's
antennas and comparable antennas for at least 2 additional users, if the
antenna support structure is over 100 feet in height, or for at least 1
additional user, if the tower is over 60 feet in height. Any antenna support
structure must also be designed to allow for future rearrangement of antennas
upon the tower and to accept antennas mounted at different heights. Other users
shall include but not be limited to other cellular communication companies,
personal communication systems companies, local police, fire, and ambulance
companies.
      (10)   Antenna support structures shall be constructed and painted to
reduce visual impact and according to all applicable F.A.A. requirements.
      (11)   The use of guyed towers is prohibited. Towers must be self-
supporting without the use of wires, cables, beams, or other means. The design
should utilize an open framework or monopole design. Permanent platforms or
structures, exclusive of antennas, are prohibited.
      (12)   The base of any tower shall occupy no more than 500 square feet
and the top of the tower shall be no larger than the base.
      (13)   Antennas and antenna support structures must be designed to blend
into the surrounding environment through use of color and camouflaging
architectural treatment, except in instances where the color is dictated by
federal or state authorities. All locations should provide the maximum amount
of screening from off-site views as is feasible. Existing on-site vegetation
shall be preserved to the maximum extent practicable.
      (14)   The base of all antenna support structures shall be landscaped
according to a plan approved by the City Engineer. Accessory structures shall
be designed to be architecturally compatible with the principal antenna support
structure.
      (15)   Antennas shall be subject to state and federal regulations
pertaining to non-ionizing radiation and other health hazards related to the
facilities. If new, more restrictive standards are adopted, antennas shall be
brought into compliance with the new standards by the owner and operator. The
cost of verification of compliance shall be borne by the owner and operator of
the antenna.
      (16)   Except as approved by the city as to public utilities, no part of
any antenna or support structure, nor any lines, cable, equipment, wires, or
braces shall at any time extend across or over any part of any right-of-way,
public street, highway, sidewalk, or property line.
      (17)   All metal towers (and all necessary components) shall be
constructed of, or treated with, corrosion-resistant material.
      (18)   All antennas and support structures shall be adequately insured
for injury and property damage caused by collapse or other catastrophic
failure.
      (19)   All new antenna support structures shall be constructed to provide
space for the installation of a city emergency/fire siren in such a fashion
that it will not interfere with any antennas. The space shall be available for
that use by the city at no cost to the city.
   (B)   The following regulations shall apply to all antennas and antenna
support structures for which a special use permit, administrative permit, or
site plan is required under this subchapter:
      (1)   The applicant shall demonstrate by providing a coverage/
interference analysis and capacity analysis prepared by a registered
professional engineer that location of the antennas as proposed is necessary to
meet the frequency reuse and spacing needs and to provide adequate coverage and
capacity to areas which cannot be adequately served by locating the antennas in
a less restrictive district. The analysis shall also demonstrate to the
reasonable satisfaction of the city that the proposed use will not interfere
with the radio, television, telephone, and other similar services enjoyed by
the properties in the area.
      (2)   Transmitting, receiving, and switching equipment shall be housed
within an existing structure whenever possible. If a new equipment building is
necessary for transmitting, receiving and switching equipment, it shall be
situated in the rear yard of the principal use and shall be screened from view
by landscaping.
      (3)   (a)   Unless the antenna is mounted on an existing structure, at
the discretion of the city, a security fence not greater than 8 feet in height
with a maximum capacity of 50% shall be provided around the support structure.
         (b)   All antenna support structures shall be reasonably protected
against climbing.
      (4)   At least annually, and at each time a new user is added to an
antenna support structure, the owner or operator shall provide to the city a
report from a registered engineer that the antenna(s) comply with all
applicable regulations regarding emission of radiation and electromagnetic
waves.
      (5)   The base of all antenna support structures shall be posted with
signs stating "Danger–High Voltage" on all sides.
(Prior Code, § 600.060) (Ord. 7477, passed 11-18-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.07 AMATEUR RADIO ANTENNA AND TOWERS.
   (A)   Exemptions. Antennas and antenna support structures for federally
licensed amateur radio operators are hereby exempted from the following
provisions of this subchapter:
      (1)   Section
95.03(A);
      (2)   Section
95.03(C)(1);
      (3)   Section
95.04(A);
      (4)   Section
95.04(E);
      (5)   Section
95.05;
      (6)   Section
95.06(A)(3), (6), (9), (11), and (19); and
      (7)   Section
95.06(B)(1), (3)(a), (4), and (5).
   (B)   Site plan.  No amateur antenna support structures shall be constructed
unless site plan approval has been given by the City Administrator. Any person
aggrieved by the City Administrator's decision shall be entitled to appeal that
decision to the City Council.
   (C)   Support structure construction. Amateur radio support structures
(towers) must be installed in accordance with the instructions furnished by the
manufacturer of that tower model. Because of the experimental nature of the
amateur radio service, antennas mounted on such a tower may be modified or
changed at any time so long as the published allowable load on the tower is not
exceeded and the structure of the tower remains in accordance with the
manufacturer's specifications.
(Prior Code, § 600.070) (Ord. 7477, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 95.08 EFFECT ON EXISTING TOWERS.
   Antennas and towers in existence prior to the enactment of this subchapter
which do not conform or comply with this section are subject to the following
provisions:
   (A)   Towers may continue in use for the purpose now used and as now
existing but may not be replaced or structurally altered without complying in
all respects with this section.
   (B)   If the towers are hereafter damaged or destroyed due to any reason or
cause whatsoever, the tower may be repaired and restored to its former use,
location, and physical dimensions upon obtaining a building permit thereafter,
but without otherwise complying with this section. However, if the cost of
repairing the tower to the former use, physical dimensions, and location would
be 10% or more of the cost of a new tower of like kind and quality, then the
tower may not be repaired or restored except in full compliance with this
section.
(Prior Code, § 600.080) (Ord. 7477, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 95.09 INSPECTIONS AND VIOLATIONS.
   All towers, monopoles, antennas and the like must obtain a building permit
and are subject to inspection by the City Building Official to determine
compliance with construction standards. Any person who shall do or commit any
act that is forbidden by the provisions of this subchapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 600.090) (Ord. 7477, passed 11-18-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
TRANSMISSION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS OR RELATED SERVICES IN THE PUBLIC GROUND
§ 95.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY CLERK. The City Clerk for the City of Lakeland or public works (or
equivalent position at the city) or designated representative.
   COMPANY. A natural or corporate person, business association, political
subdivision, public or private agency of any kind, its successors and assigns,
who or which seeks or is required to construct, install, operate, repair,
maintain, remove, or relocate facilities in the city.
   FACILITIES. Telecommunications equipment of any kind, including but not
limited to audio, video, paging, facsimile or similar service, not governed by
M.S. Chapter 238, as it may be amended from time to time, including all trunks,
lines, circuits, physical connections, switching equipment, wireless
communication equipment of all kinds, and any necessary appurtenances owned,
leased, or operated by a company on, over, in, under, across or along public
ground.
   PUBLIC GROUND. Highways, roads, streets, alleys, public ways, utility
easements, and public grounds in the city.
(Prior Code, § 1706.010) (Ord. 7469, passed 1-16-1996)
§ 95.21 PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Permit required.  A company may not construct, install, repair, remove
or relocate facilities, or any part thereof, in, on, over, under or along
public ground without first obtaining a permit from the city.
   (B)   Application. Application for a permit is made to the City Clerk.
   (C)   Issuance of permit. If the City Clerk determines that the applicant
has satisfied the requirements of this subchapter, the City Clerk may issue a
permit to the company. An applicant may contest a permit denial or the
conditions of approval by written notice to the Clerk requesting a City Council
review within 14 days. The Council shall hear any contest of the City Clerk's
actions under this subchapter within 45 days of the City Clerk's receipt of the
contest notice. Nothing in this subchapter precludes the city from requiring a
franchise agreement with the applicant, as allowed by law, in addition to the
issuance of a permit set forth herein.
   (D)   Permit fee. The application must be accompanied by the permit fee set
by the City Council by ordinance.
   (E)   Security for completion of work. Prior to commencement of work, the
company must deposit with the city security in the form of certified check,
letter of credit or construction bond, in a sufficient amount as determined by
the city for the completion of work. The securities will be held until the work
is completed plus a period of 2 months thereafter to guarantee that restoration
work has been satisfactorily completed. Upon application of the company,
providing such information as the city may require, if 2 or more work projects
are to be constructed during a calendar year, the city may accept, in lieu of
separate security for each project, a single security for multiple projects in
a form and amount as determined to be sufficient to assure completion of all
projects which may be in progress at any 1 time during that calendar year and
to guaranty that restoration work will be satisfactorily completed. The
security will then be returned to the company with interest if required by law
and then interest at the applicable statutory rate.
   (F)   Inspection of work.  When the work is completed the company must
request an inspection by the City Engineer. The City Engineer will determine if
the work has been satisfactorily completed and provide the company with a
written report of the inspection and approval.
(Prior Code, § 1706.020) (Ord. 7469, passed 1-16-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.22 RESTORATION AND RELOCATION.
   (A)   Restoration.  Upon completion of the work, the company must restore
the general area of the work, including paving and its foundations, to the same
condition that existed prior to commencement of the work and must exercise
reasonable care to maintain the same condition for 2 years thereafter. The work
must be completed as promptly as weather permits. If the company does not
promptly perform and complete the work, remove all dirt, rubbish, equipment and
material, and restore the public ground to the same condition, the city may put
in the same condition at the expense of the company. The company must, upon
demand, pay to the city the direct and indirect costs of the work done for or
performed by the city, including but not limited to the city's administrative
costs. To recover its costs, the city will first draw on the security posted by
the company and then recover the balance of the costs incurred from the company
directly by written demand. This remedy is in addition to any other remedies
available to the city.
   (B)   Company-initiated relocation. The company must give the city written
notice prior to a company-initiated relocation of facilities. A company-
initiated relocation must be at the company's expense and must be approved by
the city, the approval not to be reasonably withheld.
   (C)   City required relocation.  The company must promptly and at its own
expense, with due regard for seasonal working conditions, permanently relocate
its facilities whenever the city requires the relocation.
   (D)    Relocation where public ground vacated.  The vacation of public
ground does not deprive the company of the right to operate and maintain its
facilities in the city. If the vacation proceedings are initiated by the
company, the company must pay the relocation costs. If the vacation proceedings
are initiated by the city or other persons, the company must pay the relocation
costs unless otherwise agreed to by the city, company and other persons.
(Prior Code, § 1706.030) (Ord. 7469, passed 1-16-1996)
§ 95.23 COMPANY DEFAULT.
   (A)   Notice.  If the company is in default in the performance of the work
authorized by the permit, including but not limited to restoration
requirements, for more than 30 days after receiving written notice from the
city of the default, the city may terminate the rights of the company under the
permit. The notice of default must be in writing and specify the provisions of
the permit under which the default is claimed and state the grounds of the
claim. The notice must be served on the company by personally delivering it to
an officer thereof at its principal place of business in Minnesota or by
certified mail to that address.
   (B)   City action on default. If the company is in default in the
performance of the work authorized by the permit, the city may, after the above
notice to the company and failure of the company to cure the default, take such
action as may be reasonably necessary to abate the condition caused by the
default. The company must reimburse the city for the city's reasonable costs,
including costs of collection and attorney fees incurred as a result of the
company default. The security posted under §
95.21 will be applied by the city first toward payment for the reimbursement.
(Prior Code, § 1706.040) (Ord. 7469, passed 1-16-1996)
§ 95.24 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Scope. The company will indemnify, keep, and hold the city, its
elected officials, officers, employees, and agents free and harmless from any
and all claims and actions on account of injury or death of persons or damage
to property occasioned by the construction, installation, maintenance, repair,
removal, relocation, or operation of the facilities affecting public ground,
unless the injury or damage is the result of the negligence of the city, its
elected officials, employees, officers, or agents. The city will notify the
company of claims or actions and provide a reasonable opportunity for the
company to accept and undertake the defense.
   (B)   Claim defense. If a claim or action is brought against the city under
circumstances where indemnification applies, the company, at its sole expense,
shall defend the city if written notice of the claim or action is given to the
company within a period wherein the company is not prejudiced in the defense of
the claim or action by lack of the notice. If the company undertakes the
defense, the company shall have complete control of the claim or action, but it
may not settle without the consent of the city, which shall not be unreasonably
withheld. This section is not, as to third parties, a waiver of any defense or
immunity otherwise available to the city. In defending any action on behalf of
the city, the company is entitled to assert every defense or immunity that the
city could assert in its own behalf.
(Prior Code, § 1706.050) (Ord. 7469, passed 1-16-1996)
§ 95.25 OTHER CONDITIONS OF USE.
   (A)   Use of public ground.  Facilities must be located, constructed,
installed, maintained, or relocated so as not to endanger or unnecessarily
interfere with the usual and customary traffic, travel, and use of public
ground. The facilities are subject to additional conditions of the permit as
established by the Director, including but not limited to:
      (1)   The right of inspection by the city at reasonable times and places;
      (2)   The obligation to relocate the facilities pursuant to §
95.22(C) and (D); and
      (3)   Compliance with all applicable regulations imposed by the Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission and other state and the federal law, including
prompt compliance with the requirements of the Gopher State One Call program,
M.S. Chapter 216D, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Location. The facilities must be placed in a location agreed to by the
city. The company shall give the city 45 days' advanced written notice of the
company's proposed location of facilities within the public ground. No later
than 45 days after the city's receipt of the company's written notice, the city
will notify the company in writing of the city's acceptance or rejection of the
proposed location. If the city rejects the company's proposed location, the
city shall propose alternative locations. The city does not waive or forfeit
its right to reject the location of facilities by failure to respond within 45
days.
   (C)   Emergency work. A company may open and disturb the surface of public
ground without a permit where an emergency exists requiring the immediate
repair of its facilities. In this event the company must request a permit not
later than the second working day thereafter and comply with the applicable
conditions of the permit. In no event, may the company undertake such an
activity which will result in the closing of a street or alley without prior
notification to the city.
   (D)   Street improvements, paving or resurfacing. The city will give the
company written notice of plans for street improvements where permanent paving
or resurfacing is involved. The notice must contain:
      (1)   The nature and character of the improvements;
      (2)   The streets upon which the improvements are to be made;
      (3)   The extent of the improvements, the time when the city will start
the work; and
      (4)   If more than 1 street is involved, the sequence in which the work
is to proceed.
   (E)   Company protection of facilities. The company must take reasonable
measures to prevent the facilities from causing damage to persons or property.
The company must take reasonable measures to protect its facilities from damage
that could be inflicted on the facilities by persons, property, or the
elements. The company must take specific protective measures when the city
performs work near the facilities.
   (F)   Prior service connections. In cases where the city is undertaking the
paving or resurfacing of streets and the facilities are located under street,
the company may be required to install service connections prior to the paving
or resurfacing, if it is apparent that service will be required during the 5-
year period following the paving or resurfacing.
(Prior Code, § 1706.060) (Ord. 7469, passed 1-16-1996)
§ 95.26 EFFECTIVE DATE AND APPLICABILITY TO EXISTING FACILITIES.
   Companies with facilities, in, on, over, under or along public ground on the
effective date of this subchapter must take prompt action to comply with this
subchapter and the permits authorized by this subchapter. A company, however,
is not required to reapply for a permit obtained from the city prior to the
effective date of this subchapter. A company is not required to pay the
difference between the permit fee of a previously obtained permit and the
equivalent newly obtained permit under this subchapter. All other provisions of
this subchapter apply to existing facilities.
(Prior Code, § 1706.070) (Ord. 7469, passed 1-16-1996)
§ 95.27 ACCEPTANCE OF REQUIREMENTS.
   By receiving a permit pursuant to this subchapter, the company accepts and
agrees to comply with all of the requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1706.080) (Ord. 7469, passed 1-16-1996)
§ 95.28 PUBLIC GROUND OTHER THAN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Nothing in this subchapter is intended to grant the company authority beyond
that given by M.S. § 222.37, as it may be amended from time to time, for use of
the public rights-of-way for construction and operation of facilities. If the
city allows the company to use its non-right-of-way public ground, the terms of
this subchapter apply to the extent they are consistent with the contract,
statutory, and common-law rights the city owns in the property.
(Prior Code, § 1706.090) (Ord. 7469, passed 1-16-1996)
§ 95.29 REGULATIONS; PERMIT SCHEDULES.
   The Director is authorized and directed to prepare suitable regulations and
schedules for the administration of permits issued under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1706.100) (Ord. 7469, passed 1-16-1996)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Public Rights-of-Way
   
96.01   Findings, purpose, and intent
   
96.02   Election to manage the public rights-of-way
   
96.03   Definitions
   
96.04   Administration
   
96.05   Registration and right-of-way occupancy
   
96.06   Registration information
   
96.07   Reporting obligations
   
96.08   Permit requirement
   
96.09   Permit applications
   
96.10   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
96.11   Permit fees
   
96.12   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
96.13   Joint applications
   
96.14   Supplementary applications
   
96.15   Other obligations
   
96.16   Denial of permit
   
96.17   Installation requirements
   
96.18   Inspection
   
96.19   Work done without a permit
   
96.20   Supplementary notification
   
96.21   Revocation of permits
   
96.22   Mapping data
   
96.23   Location and relocation of facilities
   
96.24   Pre-excavation facilities location
   
96.25   Damage to other facilities
   
96.26   Right-of-way vacation
   
96.27   Indemnification and liability
   
96.28   Abandoned and unusable facilities
   
96.29   Appeal
PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 96.01 FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND INTENT.
   (A)   To provide for the health, safety and welfare of its citizens and to
ensure the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-
way, the city strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good repair and
free from unnecessary encumbrances.
   (B)   Accordingly, the city hereby enacts this subchapter relating to right-
of-way permits and administration. This subchapter imposes reasonable
regulation on the placement and maintenance of facilities and equipment
currently within its rights-of-way or to be placed therein at some future time.
It is intended to complement the regulatory roles of state and federal
agencies. Under this subchapter, persons excavating and obstructing the rights-
of-way will bear financial responsibility for their work. Finally, this
subchapter provides for recovery of out-of-pocket and projected costs from
persons using the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   This subchapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session
Laws, Chapter 123, substantially codified in M.S. §§ 237.16, 237.162, 237.163,
237.79, 237.81, and 238.086 (the “Act”) and the other laws governing applicable
rights of the city and users of the right-of-way. This subchapter shall also be
interpreted consistent with Minn. Rules 7819.0050 through 7819.9950 where
possible. To the extent any provision of this subchapter cannot be interpreted
consistently with the Minnesota Rules, that interpretation most consistent with
the Act and other applicable statutory and case law is intended. This
subchapter shall not be interpreted to limit the regulatory and police powers
of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.02 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city under state and federal,
administrative and common law, the city hereby elects, pursuant M.S. § 237.163,
Subd. 2(b), to manage rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
References hereafter to “sections” are, unless otherwise specified, references
to sections of this subchapter.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A facility no longer in service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other
facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not abandoned
unless declared so by the right-of-way user.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right-
of-way.
   CITY. The City of Lakeland, Minnesota. For purposes of §
96.27, CITY means its elected officials, officers, employees and agents.
   COMMISSION. The State Public Utilities Commission.
   CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY. A crowded condition in the subsurface of the public
right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground facilities does not allow for construction of new underground
facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral facilities
in conformance with M.S. § 216D.04, Subd. 3, over a continuous length in excess
of 500 feet.
   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND. Any of the following forms of security
provided at permittee’s option:
       (1)   Individual project bond;
      (2)   Cash deposit;
      (3)   Security of a form listed or approved under M.S. § 15.73, Subd. 3;
      (4)   Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (5)    Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the city; or
      (6)   A blanket bond for projects within the city, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the city.
   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rules 7819.1100, the cost to achieve a
level of restoration, as determined by the city at the time the permit is
issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration shown in plates one to 13, set
forth in Minn. Rules 7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
   DEGRADATION FEE. The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by
the city to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of
the right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation
cost.
   DELAY PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration as established
by permit.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works of the City.
   DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR. Any person authorized by the city to carry out
inspections related to the provisions of this subchapter.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Public Works of the City, or her
or his designee.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that:
      (1)   Poses a danger to life or health, or of a significant loss of
property; or
      (2)   Requires immediate repair or replacement of facilities in order to
restore service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain
facilities in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this subchapter, must be
obtained before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An EXCAVATION PERMIT
allows the holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such
permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in §
96.11.
   FACILITY or FACILITIES. Any tangible asset in the right-of-way required to
provide utility service.
   FIVE-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next five years.
   HIGH DENSITY CORRIDOR. A designated portion of the public right-of-way
within which telecommunications right-of-way users having multiple and
competing facilities may be required to build and install facilities in a
common conduit system or other common structure.
   HOLE. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
less than the width of the pavement.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of such person
or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions
for that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this subchapter.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS. The actual costs the city incurs in managing its rights-
of-way, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way permit
applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects; maintaining,
supporting, protecting, or moving user facilities during right-of-way work;
determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed after providing notice and the opportunity to correct
the work; and revoking right-of-way permits. MANAGEMENT COSTS do not include
payment by a telecommunications right-of-way user for the use of the right-of-
way, the fees and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of
Minnesota Session Laws 1997, Chapter 123; M.S. §§ 237.162 or 237.163; or any
ordinance enacted under those sections, or the city fees and costs related to
appeals taken pursuant to §
96.30.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder
free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this subchapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a permittee to cover the
costs as provided in §
96.11.
   PATCH or PATCHING. A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in
nature. A PATCH consists of:
      (1)   The compaction of the sub-base and aggregate base; and
      (2)   The replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum of
two feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions. A PATCH is
considered full restoration only when the pavement is included in the city’s
five-year project plan.
   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-
way and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate, or gravel.
   PERMIT. Has the meaning given “right-of-way permit” in M.S. § 237.162.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way has been granted by the city under this subchapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate, or political.
   PROBATION. The status of a person that has not complied with the conditions
of this subchapter.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. One year from the date that a person has been notified
in writing that they have been put on probation.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, cartway, bicycle lane or public sidewalk in which the city has an
interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel purposes and
utility easements of the city. A right-of-way does not include the airwaves
above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other nonwire
telecommunications or broadcast service.
   REGISTRANT. Any person who:
      (1)   Has or seeks to have its equipment or facilities located in any
right-of-way; or
      (2)   In any way occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the right-
of-way or place its facilities or equipment in the right-of-way.
   RESTORE or RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
   RESTORATION COST. The amount of money paid to the city by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to plates one to 13 of Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission rules.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. Either the excavation permit or the obstruction permit,
or both, depending on the context, required by this subchapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER.
      (1)   A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by M.S. §
237.162, Subd. 4; or
      (2)   A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way that
is used or intended to be used for providing utility service, and who has a
right under law, franchise, or ordinance to use the public right-of-way.
   SERVICE or UTILITY SERVICE. Includes:
      (1)   Those services provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, Subds. 4 and 6;
      (2)   Services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including
transporting of voice or data information;
      (3)   Services of a cable communications systems as defined in M.S. Ch.
238;
      (4)   Natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications services
provided by the city;
      (5)   Services provided by a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Ch. 308A; and
      (6)   Water, and sewer, including service laterals, steam, cooling or
heating services.
   SERVICE LATERAL. An underground facility that is used to transmit,
distribute, or furnish gas, electricity, communications, or water from a common
source to an end-use customer. A SERVICE LATERAL is also an underground
facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer’s premises.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate or obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already
been issued.
   TELECOMMUNICATION RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. A person owning or controlling a
facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the
right-of-way, that is used or is intended to be used for transporting
telecommunication or other voice or data information. For purposes of this
subchapter, a cable communication system defined and regulated under M.S. Ch.
238, and telecommunication activities related to providing natural gas or
electric energy services whether provided by a public utility as defined in
M.S. § 216B.02, a municipality, a municipal gas or power agency organized under
M.S. Chs. 453 and 453A, or a cooperative electric association organized under
M.S. Ch. 308A, are not TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USERS for purposes of
this subchapter.
   TEMPORARY SURFACE. The compaction of sub-base and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation.
   TRENCH. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the pavement.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Director is the principal city official responsible for the
administration of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits, and the ordinances
related thereto. The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.05 REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Registration. Each person who occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or
use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on the right-
of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by
lease, sublease or assignment, must register with the city. Registration will
consist of providing application information and paying a registration fee.
   (B)   Registration prior to work. No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof, in any right-of-way without first being registered with the city.
   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the
provisions of a city ordinance permitting persons to plant or maintain
boulevard plantings or gardens in the area of the right-of-way between their
property and the street curb. Persons planting or maintaining boulevard
plantings or gardens shall not be deemed to use or occupy the right-of-way, and
shall not be required to obtain any permits or satisfy any other requirements
for planting or maintaining such boulevard plantings or gardens under this
subchapter. However, nothing herein relieves a person from complying with the
provisions of the M.S. Ch. 216D, Gopher One Call Law.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.06 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. The information provided to the city at the time
of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Each registrant’s name, gopher one-call registration certificate
number, address and email address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Minnesota, or a form of self-insurance acceptable to the city;
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
            1.   Use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees; and
            2.   Placement and use of facilities and equipment in the right-of-
way by the registrant, its officers, agents, employees and permittees,
including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising from
completed operations, damage of underground facilities and collapse of
property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the city in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this subchapter.
      (4)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
      (5)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate is
required to be filed under M.S. § 300.06 as recorded and certified to by the
Secretary of State.
      (6)   A copy of the person’s order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have such certificate
from said commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the city information as to
changes within 15 days following the date on which the registrant has knowledge
of any change.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.07 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Operations. Each registrant shall, at the time of registration
and by December 1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan
for underground facilities with the city. Such plan shall be submitted using a
format designated by the city and shall contain the information determined by
the city to be necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the
frequency of excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way . The plan shall
include, but not be limited to, the following information:
         (a)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of
all projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
“next-year project”); and
         (b)   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated
beginning and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five years
following the next calendar year (in this section, a “five-year project”).
      (2)   The term “project” in this section shall include both next-year
projects and five-year projects.
      (3)   By January 1 of each year, the city will have available for
inspection in the city’s office a composite list of all projects of which the
city has been informed of the annual plans. All registrants are responsible for
keeping themselves informed of the current status of this list.
      (4)   Thereafter, by February 1, each registrant may change any project
in its list of next-year projects, and must notify the city and all other
registrants of all such changes in the list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
registrant may at any time join in a next-year project of another registrant
listed by the other registrant.
   (B)   Additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the city if the registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.08 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the
appropriate right-of-way permit from the city to do so.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required by a registrant
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by
placing facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not
required if a person already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same
project.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless:
      (1)   Such person makes a supplementary application for another right-of-
way permit before the expiration of the initial permit; and
      (2)   A new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty.  In accordance with Minn. Rules 7819.1000, Subd. 3 and
notwithstanding division (B) of this Section, the city shall establish and
impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation,
obstruction, patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established
from time to time by City Council resolution.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this subchapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.09 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit is made to the city. Right-of-way permit
applications shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon
compliance with, the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Registration with the city pursuant to this subchapter;
   (B)   Submission of a completed right-of-way permit application form,
including all required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location
and area of the proposed project and the location of all known existing and
proposed facilities;
   (C)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs and other management
costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the city; and
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
   (D)   Payment of disputed amounts due the city by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least 110% of the amount
owing.
   (E)   Posting an additional or larger construction cash deposit or letter of
credit for additional facilities when applicant requests an excavation permit
to install additional facilities and the city deems the existing construction
performance bond inadequate under applicable standards.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.10 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this subchapter, the city shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.11 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall establish an excavation permit
fee in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs;
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable; and
      (3)   Escrow fee to secure the payment of city “out of pocket” expenses.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the city management
costs.
   (C)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay such fees within 30 days of billing.
   (D)   Non-refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the city
has revoked for a breach as stated in §
96.21 are not refundable.
   (E)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.12 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under §
96.15.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. Permittee shall patch its own work. The city
may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city elects to restore the right-of-way,
permittee shall make the restoration and pay the costs thereof within 30 days
of billing. If, following such restoration, the pavement settles due to
permittee’s improper backfilling, the permittee shall pay to the city, within
30 days of billing, all costs associated with correcting the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules
7819.3000.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
patching and restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the City and shall comply with Minn. Rules 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee
upon notification from the city, shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the city. The work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the city,
not including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonable or
unreasonable under §
96.15.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city at its option may do such work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights under the
construction performance bond.
   (F)   (1)   Installation of tracer wire. Utilities installed in the right-
of-way shall be completely marked with a tracer wire placed directly above or
in conjunction with the installed utility at the developer’s expense. Burial
depth shall be within six to 18 inches of final grade. In addition the
termination points where the utility crosses in, to and out of the right-of-way
shall have buried pins or markers, both of which shall be detectable with a
magnetic locator. At least one of these markers shall be a tracer wire access
box with termination points for the tracer wire. A minimum of 12 inches of
tracer wire shall be accessible above the termination box upon removal of the
tracer wire access box cap. Tie points to permanent structures shall be
submitted and GPS coordinates in the Washington County coordinate system shall
be supplied. Acceptable tracer wire and termination boxes shall be the
following or equivalent as determined by the city.
         (a)   Direct Burial #12 A WG Solid (.0808" diameter), steel core soft
drawn high strength tracer wire, 380# average tensile break load, 30 mil high
molecular weight-high density color coded polyethylene jacket complying with
ASTM-D-1248, 30 volt rating.
         (b)   Valvco cast iron head tracer wire access box.
      (2)   Access box shall be placed near final grade with no more than a
layer of sod above the access cap. If water and sewer are in a common trench, a
single tracer wire access box may be used above the water line with details on
the tie card of the offset to the sewer pin and the sewer trace wire following
the right of way border to the location pin for the sewer line. A written plan
and sketch shall be submitted prior to installation identifying the location
and mitigation measure that will be required. A deposit of $1,000 shall be held
by the city until compliance with location requirements are met. Additional
deposits will be required and held by the city for any project which has the
potential to impact city-owned infrastructure. This includes any cuts or
borings in, to, or under city streets, trails or storm drainage areas. This
may, at the city’s discretion, also be required when equipment will be
traversing city infrastructure.
      (3)   A separate permit for utility tie-in and inspections is required
for connections to existing city utilities. All utility access charges must be
current before a permit for connection will be issued. Complex connections
involving items such as wet taps, looped lines, fire flow lines, new wyes, or
shut off of services will incur additional costs.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.13 JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Joint application. Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   Shared fees. Registrants who apply for permits for the same
obstruction or excavation, which the city does not perform, may share in the
payment of the obstruction or excavation permit fee. In order to obtain a joint
permit, registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each will pay
and indicate the same on their applications.
   (C)   With city projects. Registrants, who join in a scheduled obstruction
or excavation performed by the city, whether or not it is a joint application
by two or more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay the
excavation or obstruction and degradation portions of the permit fee, but a
permit would still be required.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.14 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater
area:
      (1)   Make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby; and
      (2)   Be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. 
      (1)   A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates specified in the
permit.
      (2)   No permittee may begin its work before the permit start date or,
except as provided herein, continue working after the end date. If a permittee
does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply for a new permit
for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit or an extension of
the old permit before working after the end date of the previous permit. This
supplementary application must be submitted before the permit end date.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.15 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and authority and to pay all fees required by the city or other applicable
rule, law or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, state and federal laws, including but not limited to M.S. §§ 216D.01-.09
(Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560. A
permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all applicable codes and
established rules and regulations, and is responsible for all work done in the
right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who does the work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
city, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way. A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those
doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit
area, unless parked in conformance with city parking regulations. The loading
or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined permit area
unless specifically authorized by the permit.
   (D)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Ch. 216D and Minn. Rules Chapter 7560, and shall require potholing or open
cutting over existing underground utilities before excavating, as determined by
the Director.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.16 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this subchapter or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.17 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
7819.1100 and 7819.5000 and other applicable local requirements, in so far as
they are not inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163. Installation of
service laterals shall be performed in accordance with Minn. Rules Ch. 7560 and
these ordinances. Service lateral installation is further subject to those
requirements and conditions set forth by the city in the applicable permits
and/or agreements referenced in §
96.22(B).
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.18 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rules 7819.1300.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work-site available to the
city and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Director. 
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work that
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director that
the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented within
the required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to §
96.21.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.19 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations. 
      (1)   Each registrant shall immediately notify the Director of any event
regarding its facilities that it considers to be an emergency. The registrant
may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to respond to the emergency.
Excavators’ notification to Gopher State One Call regarding an emergency
situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the registrant shall apply for the necessary
permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill the rest of the
requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this subchapter for
the actions it took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant’s
facilities, the city will attempt to contact the local representative of each
registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event,
the city may take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the
emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the registrant whose facilities
occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by the
city code, deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to
the right-of-way, and comply with all of the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.20 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the city of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.21 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee’s control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
96.18.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit, the city shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. The permittee’s failure to
so contact the city, or permittee’s failure to timely submit an acceptable
plan, or permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
be cause for immediate revocation of the permit. Further, permittee’s failure
to so contact the city, or permittee’s failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
automatically place the permittee on probation for one full year.
   (D)   Cause for probation. From time to time, the city may establish a list
of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place the
permittee on probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to, working
out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way grossly outside of
the permit authorization.
   (E)   Automatic revocation. If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, permittee’s permit will automatically be revoked and
permittee will not be allowed further permits for one full year, except for
emergency repairs.
   (F)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city’s reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred in connection with such revocation.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.22 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required. Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information at their expense as required by the city in accordance with
Minn. Rules 7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Within 90 days following completion of any
work pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the Director accurate
maps and drawings certifying the “as-built” location of all equipment
installed, owed and maintained by the permittee. Such maps and drawings shall
include the horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and equipment
and shall be provided consistent with the city’s electronic mapping system,
when practical or as a condition imposed by the Director. Failure to provide
maps and drawings pursuant to this subsection shall be grounds for revoking the
permit holder’s registration and the withholding of any escrow funds.
   (B)   Service laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules 7560.0150
subpart 2, shall require the permittee’s use of appropriate means of
establishing the horizontal locations of installed service laterals, and the
service lateral vertical locations in those cases where the Director reasonably
requires it. Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the Director
evidence satisfactory to the Director of the installed service lateral
locations. Compliance with this division (B) and with applicable Gopher State
One Call law and Minnesota Rules governing service laterals installed after
December 31, 2005, shall be a condition of any city approval necessary for 1)
payments to contractors working on a public improvement project including those
under M.S. Ch. 429, and 2) city approval of performance under development
agreements, or other subdivision or site plan approval under M.S. Ch. 462. The
Director shall reasonably determine the appropriate method of providing such
information to the city. Failure to provide prompt and accurate information on
the service laterals installed may result in the revocation of the permit
issued for the work or for future permits to the offending permittee or its
subcontractors. Also see §
96.12.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.23 LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must comply with the
Act, with other applicable law, and with Minn. Rules 7819.3100, 7819.5000 and
7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available
to cities. See 1008.040.
   (B)   Corridors.
      (1)   The city may assign a specific area within the right-of-way, or any
particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of facilities
that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will someday be
located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or other permits
issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of facilities
shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
      (2)   Any registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position
at variance with the corridors established by the city shall, no later than at
the time of the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the
facilities are located, move the facilities to the assigned position within the
right-of-way, unless this requirement is waived by the city for good cause
shown, upon consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the
facilities, public safety, customer service needs and hardship to the
registrant.
   (C)   Nuisance. One year after the passage of this subchapter, any
facilities found in a right-of-way that have not been registered shall be
deemed to be a nuisance. The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at
law or in equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or taking
possession of the facilities and restoring the right-of-way to a useable
condition.
   (D)   Limitation of space. To protect health, safety, and welfare, or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the city shall have
the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional facilities
within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the city shall strive to the
extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-
of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest,
the public’s needs for the particular utility service, the condition of the
right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the
protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and future city plans
for public improvements and development projects which have been determined to
be in the public interest.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.24 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. §§ 216D.01-.09 (“One
Call Excavation Notice System”) before the start date of any right-of-way
excavation, each registrant who has facilities or equipment in the area to be
excavated shall mark the horizontal and vertical placement of all the
facilities. Any registrant whose facilities are less than 20 inches below a
concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work closely with the excavation
contractor to establish the exact location of its facilities and the best
procedure for excavation.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.25 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move a registrant’s facilities to protect it, the city
shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing. Each registrant shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which it or its
facilities damage. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of
repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused during the
city’s response to an emergency occasioned by that registrant’s facilities.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   Reservation of right. If the city vacates a right-of-way that contains the
facilities of a registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of-way
are governed by Minn. Rules 7819.3200.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.27 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By registering with the city, or by accepting a permit under this
subchapter, a registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the city
in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules 7819.1250.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.28 ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations.  A registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the city must provide
information satisfactory to the city that the registrant’s obligations for its
facilities in the right-of-way under this subchapter have been lawfully assumed
by another registrant.
   (B)   Removal. Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove it from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with
other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement
is waived by the city.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 96.29 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that: (1) has been denied registration; (2) has been
denied a permit; (3) has had a permit revoked; (4) believes that the fees
imposed are not in conformity with M.S. § 237.163, Subd. 6; or (5) disputes a
determination of the Director regarding §
96.22(B) may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or decision reviewed,
upon written request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act on a
timely written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting, provided the
right-of-way user has submitted its appeal with sufficient time to include the
appeal as a regular agenda item. A decision by the city council affirming the
denial, revocation, or fee imposition will be in writing and supported by
written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
(Ord. 7517, passed 10-20-2009)
RIGHT-OF -WAY PERMIT FORM
 
CITY PERMIT NO.:    20____- PERMIT FEE: Minimum $150.00
COMPANY PERMIT NO.:         DATE:
 
APPLICANT INFORMATION:
DEVELOPMENT/ADDITION/LOCATION DESCRIPTION OR SITE ADDRESS:
OWNER (Applicant):
UTILITY COMPANY:                               
CONTACT PERSON:                               
TELEPHONE NO:                  ADDRESS:                
CITY:                 STATE:        ZIP CODE:             
CONTRACTOR INFORMATION:
CONTRACTOR PERFORMING WORK:                         
CONTRACT NAME:              CONTRACT NUMBER:           PHONE:       
CONTRACTOR PERFORMING WORK MUST ATTACH CURRENT CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE NAMING
THE CITY AS AN ADDITIONALLY INSURED AND IN AN AMOUNT NOT LESS THAN $1,000,000.
WITHOUT SUCH PROOF OF INSURANCE NO PERMIT WILL BE ISSUED.
TYPE OR WORK:
    NEW PRIVATE UTILITY
    REPLACE/REPAIR
    COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAY      APRON (WIDTH?)             Feet
    RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAY      APRON (WIDTH?)             Feet
CONNECTION TO CITY SYSTEM (REQUIRES PREPAYMENT OF ACCESS FEES):
    WATERMAIN       OTHER
WHAT THE WORK WILL INVOLE (REQUIRES SECURITY TO INFRASTRUCTURE/ COMPLETE
RESTORATION. Complex plans many incur additional costs for mitigation plan
review and inspections. Must include erosion control, protective measures, and
restoration plans- all new utilities must be fully located for future GSOC
requirements):
    STREET OPEN CUT (requires approved plan with access, traffic control, and
inspected full width restoration- security required)
    PATHWAY CUT (requires approved plan with full width restoration and
security for restoration)
    EXCAVATION IN BOULEVARD or CITY OWNED PROPERTY (requires approved plan and
security for restoration)
R.O.W. ACCESS (requires approved plan on use, control, mitigation and
restoration. Must have full marking of new utilities)
EXPLANATION OF WORK/ ADDITIONAL COMMENTS:
PROPOSED START DATE:          
PROPOSED END DATE:          
Applicant agrees to abide by and follow all applicable ordinances, laws, rules,
and regulations of all regulatory bodies, including but not limited to city,
county, state or federal regulatory agencies. Applicant acknowledges that
placement of its utilities in any right-of-way is subject to the rights and
rules of the City of Lakeland. Damage, loss or destruction of applicant’s
facilities and/or its resulting business interruption will not be restored,
compensated or reimbursed by the city in the event the city needs to remove,
relocate or terminate such facilities while accessing its utility services in
the area for any reason. Private utility locates are required by the owner and/
or applicant for the utility in the right-of-way and in perpetuity.
The applicant shall provide, at its sole expense, full “as-built” drawings for
all infrastructure installed in the city right-of-way. All “as-built” drawings
shall be completed by a licensed Minnesota engineer or surveyor. “As-built”
shall be provided in paper and digital form acceptable to the City of Lakeland
including GPS coordinates in the Washington County coordinate system. The city
additionally reserves the right to remove and/or deactivate any and all
installed infrastructure placed in its right-of-way should these “as-built” not
be provided or should these prove inaccurate.
The applicant accepts in perpetuity the responsibility to perform at its
expense all necessary locates (Gopher State One Calls) that may arise or be
requested in the future by the city or other parties. The applicant does
release and hold harmless the city from any and all responsibility for utility
/ service locates.
APPLICANT SIGNATURE. By your signature you accept and agree to all conditions
as stated above. Must be signed by owner, president or CEO of firm installing
utilities.
Name:                   
Title:                      
Signature:                    
Date:                      
Phone:                   
 
TO BE COMPLETED BY CITY:
PERMIT EXPIRATION DATE:
 
 
SECURITY ESCROW AMOUNT REQUIRED: $
 
 
HAS PROOF OF INSURANCE BEEN SUPPLIED?
 
TYPE OF FINANCIAL SECURITY: CASH/CHECK ANNUAL
 
APPROVAL SIGNATURE:
                   TITLE: DATE:
 
 
RIGHT-OF-WAY FEES AND CHARGES
Base Permit Fee   TBD
Includes initial review, plan and restoration review, permit issuance and
tracking, one final inspection.
Additional Hourly Fee   TBD
Based on regular hour rate, does not include overtime or minimum hours for non-
standard work hours.
Engineer/ Legal Services   Actual Cost +10%
Developer is required to pay for all city out of pocket expenses, e.g. contract
work as required by the City for review, testing, additional mapping,
digitizing, survey work, recording, and the like.
Re-inspection (1/2 hr min)   TBD
Escrow Deposit Requirements:
Tracer wire installations in grass ROW shall have a $1,000 deposit, minimum, in
case engineer needs to be brought in to survey and perform a trace. Separate
escrow amounts will be required for street or trail impacts or other
excavations based on proposed project, materials and areas to be disrupted.
Fees for trenching, excavation, and additional infrastructure impacts will be
estimated prior to permit issue and be adjusted for additional work on an
hourly basis.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
         
111.   PAWNBROKERS
         
112.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
         
113.   ALCOHOL REGULATIONS
         
114.   TOBACCO REGULATIONS
         
115.   LICENSING AND REGULATION OF ADULT USES
         
116.   LICENSING AND REGULATION OF LEGAL CHARITABLE GAMBLING
         
117.   CANNABIS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Violations of City Licenses and Permits
   
110.01   Licenses and permits
   
110.02   Hearing requirements
   
110.03   Civil sanctions
   
110.04   Payment of fines
   
110.05   Revocation or suspension
Used Car Dealers
   
110.20   Purpose
   
110.21   Limit of available licenses
   
110.22   License required
   
110.23   Fees
   
110.24   Restrictions
VIOLATIONS OF CITY LICENSES AND PERMITS
§ 110.01 LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   The requirements of this subchapter shall apply to all licenses and permits
issued by the city.
(Prior Code, § 1103.020) (Ord. 7473, passed 1-21-1997)
§ 110.02 HEARING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All hearings regulated by this subchapter shall take place before the
City Council at the City Council Chambers.
   (B)   None of the civil sanctions authorized herein may be imposed by the
City Council until the license/permit holder has been given an opportunity for
a hearing before the City Council.
   (C)   Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions
contained within the Administrative Procedure Act (M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as
it may be amended from time to time).
   (D)   This subchapter does not require the city to conduct its hearing
before an employee of the Office of Administrative Hearings. Rather, all
hearings shall take place before the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1103.030) (Ord. 7473, passed 1-21-1997)
§ 110.03 CIVIL SANCTIONS.
   If the City Council, after conducting a hearing, determines that a license
or permit holder has failed to comply with his, her, or its license or permit,
or has failed to comply with any applicable statute, rule, or ordinance related
to the operation of the activity for which a license or permit has been granted
by the city, the City Council may revoke the license or permit, suspend the
license or permit for a period of up to 60 days, impose a civil penalty of up
to $2,000 for each violation, or impose any combination of these sanctions.
(Prior Code, § 1103.040) (Ord. 7473, passed 1-21-1997)
§ 110.04 PAYMENT OF FINES.
   (A)   If the Council imposes a civil fine, the civil fine shall be paid to
the city within 60 days of issuance of the fine.
   (B)   Failure of a license/permit holder to pay a fine within 60 days (or
within the time otherwise allowed by the Council) shall cause that license or
permit to become immediately suspended.
(Prior Code, § 1103.050) (Ord. 7473, passed 1-21-1997)
§ 110.05 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Any license/permit holder who has had his or her license or permit suspended
or revoked shall not be allowed to operate the activity which required the
license or permit until the license or permit is reinstated. Operation during a
period of suspension or revocation shall be deemed to be an additional
violation of the terms of the permit or license.
(Prior Code, § 1103.060) (Ord. 7473, passed 1-21-1997)
USED CAR DEALERS
§ 110.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of a used car dealer license is to monitor business operations,
to protect existing neighborhoods and to limit the density of such uses in the
community. The city has determined that a concentration of used car dealers in
a small geographic area has the potential to adversely impact the health,
safety and welfare of the residents.
(Am. Ord. 2019-34, passed – –2019; Am. Ord. 2021-08, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 110.21 LIMIT OF AVAILABLE LICENSES.
    The city shall make up to three Used Car Dealer Licenses available.
Licenses shall be on a first-come, first-serve basis and shall be renewed on an
annual basis.
(Am. Ord. 2019-34, passed – –2019; Am. Ord. 2021-08, passed 6-15-2021)
§ 110.22 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale a used car within the
city limits without first obtaining a license as a used car dealer. No licenses
shall be given to any business without a Conditional Use Permit. Further,
evidence of compliance with the State of Missouri licensing requirements for
Car Dealerships shall be provided at time of license application and renewal.
   (B)   This regulation shall not apply to the sale of a used car by its owner
when that car has been owned by that owner and registered in the owner’s name
for a period of at least 6 months prior to the time it is offered for sale;
however, no owner may offer for sale or display more than 1 car within each
month period.
(Prior Code, § 1102.010) (Am. Ord. 2019-34, passed – –2019; Am. Ord. 2021-08,
passed 6-15-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.23 FEES.
   A used car dealer license may be obtained from the City Clerk upon payment
of a fee as set forth in §
33.01 and these licenses shall run from the date issued until the last day of
the same year.
(Prior Code, § 1102.020) (Am. Ord. 2019-34, passed – –2019; Am. Ord. 2021-08,
passed 6-15-2021)
§ 110.24 RESTRICTIONS.
   No unlicensed motor vehicle of the type requiring a license under state law
to operate on the public highway, nor any part or remnant of any such vehicle,
shall be kept or suffered to remain on any public or private land in the city
unless kept in a garage. The owner or occupant of any land on which the motor
vehicle or part or remnant there is kept or suffered to remain in violation of
the provisions of this section shall be deemed to have violated the provisions
of this section if the motor vehicle or a part or remnant thereof remains on
the land owned or occupied by him or her in violation of the provisions of this
section after 30 days from the date on which the owner or occupant is given
written notice by the city of the specific violation.
(Prior Code, § 1102.030) (Am. Ord. 2019-34, passed – –2019; Am. Ord. 2021-08,
passed 6-15-2021)
CHAPTER 111: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   License required
   
111.04   License fees
   
111.05   Investigation fee
   
111.06   Expiration of license
   
111.07   Application required
   
111.08   Bond required
   
111.09   Records required
   
111.10   Daily reports to Sheriff
   
111.11   Receipt required
   
111.12   Redemption period
   
111.13   Holding period
   
111.14   Sheriff's order to hold property
   
111.15   Inspection of items
   
111.16   Label required
   
111.17   Prohibited acts
   
111.18   Denial, suspension, or revocation
   
111.19   Business at only 1 place
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council finds that use of services provided by pawnbrokers
provides an opportunity for the commission of crimes and their concealment
because pawn businesses have the ability to receive and transfer property
stolen by others easily and quickly. The City Council also finds that consumer
protection regulation is warranted in transactions involving pawnbrokers. The
City Council further finds that the pawn industry has outgrown the city's
current ability to effectively or efficiently identify criminal activity
related to pawn shops. The purpose of this chapter is to prevent pawn
businesses from being used as facilities for the commission of crimes and to
assure that the businesses comply with basic consumer protection standards,
thereby protecting the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
citizens of the city.
   (B)   To help the Washington County Sheriff's Department better regulate
current and future pawn businesses, decrease and stabilize costs associated
with the regulation of the pawn industry, and increase identification of
criminal activities in the pawn industry through the timely collection and
sharing of pawn transaction information, this chapter also implements and
establishes the required use of the automated pawn system (APS).
(Prior Code, § 1802.010) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLABLE TRANSACTION.  Every reportable transaction conducted by a
pawnbroker is a BILLABLE TRANSACTION except renewals, redemptions, or
extensions of existing pawns on items previously reported and continuously in
the licensee's possession, voided transactions, and confiscations.
   PAWNBROKER. Any natural person, partnership, or corporation, either as
principal, or agent or employee thereof, who loans money on deposit or pledge
of personal property, or other valuable thing, or who deals in the purchasing
of personal property, or other valuable thing on condition of selling the same
back again at a stipulated price, or who loans money secured by chattel
mortgage on personal property, taking possession of the property or any part
thereof so mortgaged. To the extent that a pawnbroker's business includes
buying personal property previously used, rented, or leased, or selling it on
consignment, the provisions of this chapter shall be applicable.
   REPORTABLE TRANSACTION. Every transaction conducted by a pawnbroker in which
merchandise is received through a pawn, purchase, consignment, or trade, or in
which a pawn is renewed, extended, or redeemed, or for which a unique
transaction number or identifier is generated by their point-of-sale software,
or an item is confiscated by law enforcement, is reportable except:
      (1)   The bulk purchase or consignment of new or used merchandise from a
merchant, manufacturer, or wholesaler having an established permanent place of
business, and the retail sale of that merchandise; provided, the pawnbroker
must maintain a record of the purchase or consignment which describes each
item, and must mark each item in a manner which relates it to that transaction
record; and
      (2)   Retail and wholesale sales of merchandise originally received by
pawn or purchase, and for which all applicable hold and/or redemption periods
have expired.
(Prior Code, § 1802.020) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 111.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of pawnbroker at any location without
a pawnbroker license for that location. No pawnbroker license may be
transferred to a different location or a different person. Issuance of a
license under this chapter shall not relieve the licensee from obtaining any
other licenses required to conduct business at the same or any other locations.
(Prior Code, § 1802.030) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The annual license fees for licenses issued under this chapter and
billable transaction fees, as established in Exhibit A of Ord. 7504, License
Fee Schedule and Billable Transaction Fee, are set forth in the fee schedule in
§
33.01.
   (B)   The annual license fee shall be payable semi-annually in accordance
with procedures established by the City Council.
   (C)   (1)   The billable transaction fee shall reflect the cost of
processing transactions and other related regulatory expenses as determined by
the City Council, and shall be reviewed and adjusted, if necessary, at least
every 6 months. Licensees shall be notified in writing 30 days before any
adjustment is implemented.
      (2)   Current fees established by the City Council are as set forth in
division (A) of this section.
   (D)   Billable transaction fees shall be billed monthly and are due and
payable within 30 days. Failure to do so is a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1802.040) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 INVESTIGATION FEE.
   An applicant for a new license under this chapter, or for the renewal of an
existing license that is more than 6 months past due, shall deposit an amount
as set forth in §
33.01 with the Washington County Sheriff's Department license inspector at the
time an original application is submitted to cover the costs involved in
verifying the license application and to cover the expense of any investigation
needed to assure compliance with this chapter.
   (A)   If the investigation process is conducted solely within the State of
Minnesota, the fee shall be as set forth in §
33.01 and the remainder of the deposit shall be returned to the applicant upon
completion of the investigation.
   (B)   If the investigation is conducted outside of the State of Minnesota,
the issuing authority may recover the actual investigation costs, as set forth
in §
33.01.
(Prior Code, § 1802.050) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 111.06 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   All licenses shall expire on January 1.
(Prior Code, § 1802.060) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 111.07 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Contents for renewal or new license.  An application form provided by
the Department of Licenses and Consumer Services must be completed by every
applicant for a new license or for renewal of an existing license.
   (B)   New applications. Every new applicant must provide all the following
information:
      (1)   If the applicant is a natural person:
         (a)   The name, place and date of birth, street resident address, and
phone number of applicant;
         (b)   Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States or
resident alien;
         (c)   Whether the applicant has ever used or has been known by a name
other than the applicant's name, and if so, the name or names used and
information concerning dates and places used;
         (d)   The name of the business if it is to be conducted under a
designation, name, or style other than the name of the applicant and a
certified copy of the certificate as required by M.S. § 333.01, as it may be
amended from time to time;
         (e)   The street address at which the applicant has lived during the
preceding 5 years;
         (f)   The type, name and location of every business or occupation in
which the applicant has been engaged during the preceding 5 years, and the name
(s) and address(es) of the applicant's employer(s) and partner(s), if any, for
the preceding 5 years;
         (g)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony,
crime, or violation of any ordinance other than a traffic ordinance. If so, the
applicant must furnish information as to the time, place, and offense of all
the convictions;
         (h)   The physical description of the applicant;
         (i)   Applicant's current personal financial statement and true copies
of the applicant's federal and state tax returns for the 2 years prior to
application; and
         (j)   If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the
manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information
concerning each of them required in divisions (B)(1)(a) through (h) of this
section.
      (2)   If the applicant is a partnership:
         (a)   The name(s) and address(es) of all general and limited partners
and all information concerning each general partner required in division (B)(1)
of this section;
         (b)   The name(s) of the managing partner(s) and the interest of each
partner in the licensed business;
         (c)   A true copy of the partnership agreement shall be submitted with
the application. If the partnership is required to file a certificate as to a
trade name pursuant to M.S. § 333.01, as it may be amended from time to time, a
certified copy of the certificate must be attached to the application;
         (d)   A true copy of the federal and state tax returns for partnership
for the 2 years prior to application; and
         (e)   If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the
manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information
concerning each of them required in division (B)(1)(a) through (h) of this
section.
      (3)   If the applicant is a corporation or other organization:
         (a)   The name of the corporation or business form, and if
incorporated, the state of incorporation;
         (b)   A true copy of the certificate of incorporation, articles of
incorporation or association agreement, and bylaws shall be attached to the
application; if the applicant is a foreign corporation, a certificate of
authority as required by M.S. § 303.06, as it may be amended from time to time,
must be attached;
         (c)   The name of the manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the
business and all information concerning each manager, proprietor, or agent
required in division (B)(1)(a) through (h) of this section; and
         (d)   A list of all persons who control or own an interest in excess
of 5% in the organization or business form or who are officers of the
corporation or business form and all information concerning the persons
required in division (B)(1) above. This division (B)(3)(d), however, shall not
apply to a corporation whose stock is publicly traded on a stock exchange and
is applying for a license to be owned and operated by it.
      (4)   For all applicants:
         (a)   Whether the applicant holds a current pawnbroker, precious metal
dealer or secondhand goods dealer license from any other governmental unit;
         (b)   Whether the applicant has previously been denied, or had revoked
or suspended, a pawnbroker, precious metal dealer, or secondhand dealer license
from any other governmental unit;
         (c)   The location of the business premises;
         (d)   If the applicant does not own the business premises, a true and
complete copy of the executed lease;
         (e)   The legal description of the premises to be licensed;
         (f)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due
and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid, and if not paid,
the years and the amounts that are unpaid;
         (g)   Whenever the application is for premises either planned or under
construction or undergoing substantial alteration, the application must be
accompanied by a set of preliminary plans showing the design of the proposed
premises to be licensed; and
         (h)   Other information as the City Council or issuing authority may
require.
      (5)   For a non-owner manager, when a licensee places a non-owner manager
in charge of a business, or if the named non-owner manager(s) in charge of a
licensed business changes, the licensee must complete and submit the
appropriate application, on forms provided by the Department of Licenses and
Consumer Services, within 14 days. The application must include all appropriate
information required in division (A) of this section.
         (a)   Investigation fee. Upon completion of an investigation of a new
non-owner manager, the licensee must pay an amount equal to the cost of the
investigation to assure compliance with this chapter. If the investigation
process is conducted solely within the State of Minnesota, the fee shall be as
set forth in §
33.01. If the investigation is conducted outside the State of Minnesota, the
issuing authority may recover the actual investigation costs as set forth in §
33.01.
         (b)   Application execution.  All applications for a license under
this chapter must be signed and sworn to under oath or affirmation by the
applicant. If the application is that of a natural person, it must be signed
and sworn to by the person; if that of a corporation, by an officer thereof; if
that of a partnership, by 1 of the general partners; and if that of an
unincorporated association, by the manager or managing officer thereof.
         (c)   Investigation. The Washington County Sheriff's license inspector
must investigate into the truthfulness of the statements set forth in the
application and shall endorse the finding thereof. The applicant must furnish
to the Sheriff's license inspector such evidence as the inspector may
reasonably require in support of the statements set forth in the application.
         (d)   Public hearing.  Any Council member may request a public hearing
by the Council to receive public comment on the application.
         (e)   Person ineligible for license. No licenses under this chapter
will be issued to an applicant who is a natural person, a partnership if the
applicant has any general partner or managing partner, or a corporation or
other organization if the applicant has any manager, proprietor, or agent in
charge of the business to be licensed, if the applicant:
            1.   Is a minor at the time that the application is filed; and/or
            2.   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the
occupation licensed as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 2, as it may be
amended from time to time, and has not shown competent evidence of sufficient
rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties of a licensee under
this chapter as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from
time to time; and/or
(Prior Code, § 1802.070) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 111.08 BOND REQUIRED.
   Before a license will be issued, every applicant must submit a $5,000 bond
on the forms provided by the Department of Licenses and Consumer Services. All
bonds must be conditioned that the principal will observe all laws in relation
to pawnbrokers, and will conduct business in conformity thereto, and that the
principal will account for and deliver to any person legally entitled any goods
which have come into the principal's hand through the principal's business as a
pawnbroker, or in lieu thereof, will pay the reasonable value in money to the
person. The bond shall contain a provision that no bond may be canceled except
upon 30 days' written notice to the city, which shall be served upon the
Department of Licenses and Consumer Services.
(Prior Code, § 1802.080) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 111.09 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   At the time of any reportable transaction other than renewals, extensions,
or redemptions, every licensee must immediately record in English the following
information by using ink or other indelible medium on forms or in a
computerized record approved by the Sheriff's license inspector:
   (A)   A complete and accurate description of each item, including but not
limited to any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name, or other identifying mark on the item;
   (B)   The purchase price, amount of money loaned upon, or pledged therefor;
   (C)   The maturity date of the transaction and the amount due, including
monthly and annual interest rates and all pawn fees and charges;
   (D)   Date, time, and place the item of property was received by the
licensee, and the unique alpha and/or numeric transaction identifier that
distinguishes it from all other transactions in the licensee's records;
   (E)   Full name, residence address, residence telephone number, date of
birth and accurate description of the person from whom the item of property was
received, including: sex, height, weight, race, color of eyes, and color of
hair;
   (F)   The identification number and state of issue from any of the following
forms of identification of the seller:
      (1)   Current valid Minnesota driver's license;
      (2)   Current valid Minnesota identification card; or
      (3)   Current valid photo driver's license or identification card issued
by another state or province of Canada.
   (G)   The signature of the person identified in the transaction;
   (H)   (1)   Effective 60 days from the date of notification by the Sheriff's
license inspector of acceptable video standards, the licensee must also take a
color photograph or color video recording of:
         (a)   Each customer involved in a billable transaction; and
         (b)   Every item pawned or sold that does not have a unique serial or
identification number permanently engraved or affixed.
      (2)   For each photograph taken, it must be at least 2 inches in length
by 2 inches in width and must be maintained in such a manner that the
photograph can be readily matched and correlated with all other records of the
transaction to which they relate. The photographs must be available to the
Washington County Sheriff's Department, or the Sheriff's designee, upon
request. The major portion of the photograph must include an identifiable front
facial close-up of the person who pawned or sold the item. Items photographed
must be accurately depicted. The licensee must inform the person that he or she
is being photographed by displaying a sign of sufficient size in a conspicuous
place in the premises. If a video photograph is taken, the video camera must
zoom in on the person pawning or selling the item so as to include an
identifiable close-up of that person's face. Items photographed by video must
be accurately depicted. Video photographs must be electronically referenced by
time and date so they can be readily matched and correlated with all other
records of the transaction to which they relate. The licensee must inform the
person that he or she is being videotaped orally and by displaying a sign of
sufficient size in a conspicuous place on the premises. The licensee must keep
the exposed videotape for 3 months.
   (I)   Effective 60 days from the date of notification by the Sheriff's
license inspector, licensees must fulfill the color photograph requirements in
division (H) above by submitting them as digital images, in a format specified
by the issuing authority, electronically cross-referenced to the reportable
transaction they are associated with. Notwithstanding the digital images may be
captured from required video recording, this provision does not alter or amend
the requirements in division (H) of this section;
   (J)   For renewals, extensions and redemptions, the licensee shall provide
the original transaction identifier, the date of the current transaction, and
the type of transaction; and
   (K)   The records must at all reasonable times be open to inspection by the
Sheriff's Department. Data entries shall be retained for at least 3 years from
the date of transaction. Entries of required digital images shall be retained a
minimum of 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 1802.090) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 111.10 DAILY REPORTS TO SHERIFF.
   (A)   Method.  Licensees must submit every reportable transaction to the
Sheriff's Department daily in the following manner: Licensees must provide to
the Sheriff's Department all reportable transaction information by transferring
it from their computer to the automated pawn system via modem, using the
current version of the automated pawn system interchange file specification.
All required records must be transmitted completely and accurately after the
close of business each day in accordance with standards and procedures
established by the Sheriff's license inspector. Any transaction that does not
meet the automated pawn system interchange file specification must be corrected
and resubmitted the next business day. The licensee must display a sign of
sufficient size in a conspicuous place in the premises, which informs all
patrons that all transactions are reported to the Sheriff's Department daily.
   (B)   Billable transaction fees. Licensees will be charged for each billable
transaction reported to the Sheriff's Department:
      (1)   If a licensee is unable to successfully transfer the required
reports by modem, the licensee must provide the Sheriff's Department, upon
request, printed copies of all reportable transactions along with the video
tape(s) for that date, by 12:00 p.m. noon the next business day.
      (2)   If a problem is determined to be in the licensee's system and is
not corrected by the close of the first business day following the failure, the
licensee must continue to provide the required reports as detailed in division
(B)(1) of this section, and must be charged a reporting failure penalty as set
forth in §
33.01, daily, until the error is corrected; or
      (3)   If the problem is determined to be outside the licensee's system,
the licensee must continue to provide the required reports in division (B)(1)
above, and resubmit all such transactions via modem when the problem is
corrected.
      (4)   If a licensee is unable to capture, digitize, or transmit the
photographs required in §
111.09(I), the licensee must immediately take all required photographs with a
still camera, cross-reference the photographs to the correct transaction, and
make the pictures available to the Sheriff's Department upon request.
      (5)   Regardless of the cause or origin of the technical problems that
prevented the licensee from uploading their reportable transactions, upon
correction of the problem, the licensee shall upload every reportable
transaction from every business day the problem had existed.
      (6)   Divisions (B)(1) through (3) of this section notwithstanding, the
Sheriff's license inspector may, upon presentation of extenuating
circumstances, delay implementation of the daily reporting failure penalty.
(Prior Code, § 1802.100) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 111.11 RECEIPT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every licensee must provide a receipt to the party identified in every
reportable transaction and must maintain a duplicate of that receipt for 3
years.
   (B)   The receipt must include at least the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the licensed business;
      (2)   The date and time the item was received by the licensee;
      (3)   Whether the item was pawned or sold, or the nature of the
transaction;
      (4)   An accurate description of each item received, including but not
limited to any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name, or other identifying mark on the item;
      (5)   The signature or unique identifier of the licensee or employee who
conducted the transaction;
      (6)   The amount advanced or paid;
      (7)   The monthly and annual interest rates, including all pawn fees and
charges;
      (8)   The last regular day of business by which the item must be redeemed
by the pledger without risk that the item will be sold, and the amount
necessary to redeem the pawned item on that date;
      (9)   The full name, residence address, residence telephone number, and
date of birth of the pledger or seller;
      (10)   The identification number and date of issue from any of the
following forms of identification of the seller:
         (a)   Current valid Minnesota driver's license;
         (b)   Current valid Minnesota identification card; or
         (c)   Current valid photo driver's license or identification card
issued by another state or province of Canada.
      (11)   Description of the pledger or seller, including approximate
height, sex, weight, race, color of eyes, and color of hair;
      (12)   The signature of the pledger or seller; and
      (13)   All printed statements as required by M.S. § 325J.04, Subd. 2, as
it may be amended from time to time, or any other applicable statutes.
(Prior Code, § 1802.110) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 111.12 REDEMPTION PERIOD.
    Any person pledging, pawning, or depositing any item for security must have
a minimum of 90 days from the date of that transaction to redeem the item
before it may be forfeited and sold. During the 90-day holding period, items
may not be removed from the licensed location except as provided in §
111.14. Licensees are prohibited from redeeming any item to anyone other than
the person to whom the receipt was issued, or to any person identified in a
written and notarized authorization to redeem the property identified in the
receipt, or to a person identified in writing by the pledger at the time of the
initial transaction and signed by the pledger, or with approval of the
Sheriff's license inspector. Written authorization for release of property to
persons other than original pledger must be maintained along with original
transaction record in accordance with §
111.11.
(Prior Code, § 1802.120) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 111.13 HOLDING PERIOD.
   Any item purchased by a licensee must not be sold or otherwise transferred
for 30 days from the date of the transaction. An individual may redeem an item
72 hours after the items were received on deposit, excluding Sundays and legal
holidays.
(Prior Code, § 1802.130) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 111.14 SHERIFF'S ORDER TO HOLD PROPERTY.
   (A)   Investigative hold. Whenever a law enforcement official from any
agency notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or
removed from the premises. The investigative hold shall be confirmed in writing
by the originating agency within 72 hours and will remain in effect for 15 days
from the date of initial notification, or until the investigative order is
canceled, or until an order to hold/confiscate is issued, pursuant to division
(B) of this section, whichever comes first.
   (B)   Order to hold. Whenever the Washington County Sheriff, or the
Sheriff's designee, notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not
be sold or removed from the licensed premises until authorized to be released
by the Sheriff or Sheriff's designee. The order to hold shall expire 90 days
from the date it is placed unless the Washington County Sheriff's Department or
the Sheriff's designee determines the hold is still necessary and notifies the
licensee in writing.
   (C)   Order to confiscate.  
      (1)   If an item is identified as stolen or evidence in a criminal case,
the Sheriff or Sheriff's designee may:
         (a)   Physically confiscate and remove from the shop, pursuant to a
written order from the Sheriff or Sheriff's designee; or
         (b)   Place the item on hold or extend the hold as provided in
division (B) above, and leave it in the shop.
      (2)   (a)   When an item is confiscated, the person doing so shall
provide identification upon request of the licensee, and shall provide the
licensee the name and phone number of the confiscating agency and investigator,
and the case number related to the confiscation.
         (b)   When an order to hold/confiscate is no longer necessary, the
Sheriff or the Sheriff's designee shall so notify the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 1802.140) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 111.15 INSPECTION OF ITEMS.
   At all times during the terms of the license, the licensee must allow the
Sheriff's license inspector or his or her designee(s) to enter the premises
where the licensed business is located, including all off-site storage
facilities as authorized in §
111.19, during normal business hours, except in an emergency, for the purpose
of inspecting the premises and inspecting the items, ware and merchandise and
records therein to verify compliance with this chapter or other applicable
laws.
(Prior Code, § 1802.150) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 111.16 LABEL REQUIRED.
   Licensees must attach a label to every item at the time it is pawned,
purchased or received in inventory from any reportable transaction. Permanently
recorded on this label must be the number or name that identifies the
transaction in the shop's records, the transaction date, the name of the item
and the description or the model and serial number of the item as reported to
the Sheriff's Department, whichever is applicable, and the date the item is out
of pawn or can be sold, if applicable. Labels shall not be re-used.
(Prior Code, § 1802.160) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.17 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years may pawn or sell or attempt to
pawn or sell goods with any licensee, nor may any licensee receive any goods
from a person under the age of 18 years.
   (B)   No licensee may receive any goods from a person of unsound mind or an
intoxicated person.
   (C)   No licensee may receive any goods, unless the seller presents
identification in the form of a valid driver's license, a valid State of
Minnesota identification card, or current valid photo driver's license or
identification card issued by the state of residency of the person from whom
the item was received.
   (D)   No licensee may receive any item of property that possesses an altered
or obliterated serial number or operation identification number or any item of
property that has had its serial number removed.
   (E)   No person may pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave, or deposit any
article of property not his or her own; nor shall any person pawn, pledge,
sell, consign, leave, or deposit the property of another, whether with
permission or without; nor shall any person pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave,
or deposit any article of property in which another has a security interest
with any licensee.
   (F)   No person seeking to pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave, or deposit
any article of property with any licensee shall give a false or fictitious
name; nor give a false date of birth; nor give a false or out-of- date address
of residence or telephone number; nor present a false or altered
identification, or the identification of another, to any licensee.
(Prior Code, § 1802.170) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.18 DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION.
   Any license under this chapter may be denied, suspended, or revoked for 1 or
more of the following reasons:
   (A)   The proposed use does not comply with the city Zoning Regulations, as
set forth in
Chapter 159;
   (B)   The proposed use does not comply with any health, building, building
maintenance, or other provisions of this code of ordinances or state law;
   (C)   The applicant or licensee has failed to comply with 1 or more
provisions of this chapter;
   (D)   The applicant is not a citizen of the United States or a resident
alien, or upon whom it is impractical or impossible to conduct a background or
financial investigation due to the unavailability of information;
   (E)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or bribery in security or renewing a
license;
   (F)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made in the application
and investigation for, or the course of, the applicant's business;
   (G)   Violation within the preceding 5 years of any law relating to theft,
damage, or trespass to property, sale of a controlled substance, or operation
of a business; or
   (H)   The owner of the premises licensed or to be licensed would not qualify
for a license under the terms of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1802.180) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 111.19 BUSINESS AT ONLY 1 PLACE.
   A license under this chapter authorizes the licensee to carry on its
business only at the permanent place of business designated in the license.
However, upon written request, the Sheriff's license inspector may approve an
off-site locked and secured storage facility. The licensees shall permit
inspection of the facility in accordance with §
111.15. All provisions of this chapter regarding recordkeeping and reporting
apply to the facility and its contents. Property shall be stored in compliance
with all provisions of the city code. The licensee must either own the building
in which the business is conducted, and any off-site storage facility, or have
a lease on the business premises which extends for more than 6 months.
(Prior Code, § 1802.190) (Ord. 7504, passed 11-16-2004)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   112.01   Definitions
   112.02   Nuisance
   112.03   Exceptions to provision
   112.04   Prohibitions
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house to house, door to door, business to
business, street to street, or any other type of place to place, for the
purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personnel property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. The term shall mean the same as the term HAWKER.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership, or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships, and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent, or employee.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house to house, door to door, business to
business, street to street, or any other type of place to place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property, or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the same as
the term CANVASSER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise, or other personal
property. The term shall mean the same as ITINERANT VENDOR.
§ 112.02 NUISANCE.
   (A)   The practice of going in and upon private residences or residence
properties in the City of Lakeland by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant
merchants and transient vendors of merchandise, not having been requested or
invited to do so by the owner or owners, occupant or occupants of said private
residences, for the purpose of soliciting orders for sale of goods, wares and
merchandise or for the purpose of disposing of or peddling the same, is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and punishable as a misdemeanor, except as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Law enforcement for the City of Lakeland are hereby required and
directed to suppress the activities of peddlers, solicitors and transient
merchants and to cite any such nuisance as is described in §
10.20.
§ 112.03 EXCEPTIONS TO PROVISION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, provisions of this chapter shall not
apply to any person who goes door-to-door for the following purposes:
      (1)   Any person who goes door-to-door for the dissemination of
charitable, philanthropic, political, religious, social or other ideological
beliefs;
      (2)   Any person who goes door-to-door for the establishment and
performance of a regular customer delivery route for the sale of milk, dairy
products, vegetables, poultry, eggs and other farm and garden produce so far as
the sale of the commodities named herein is authorized by law; and
      (3)   Any person who goes house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street or any other type of place-to-place movement for the
primary purpose of exercising that person’s state or federal constitutional
rights such as freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of religion and
the like. This exemption will not apply if the person’s exercise of
constitutional rights is merely incidental to what would properly be considered
a commercial activity.
   (B)   Exemptions shall not, for the scope of this chapter, excuse any person
from complying from any other applicable statutory provision or requirement
provided by another city ordinance.
§ 112.04 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Conducting business before 8:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m.
   (B)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave.
   (C)   Prohibitions shall not, for the scope of this chapter, excuse any
person from complying from any other applicable statutory provision or
requirement provided by another city ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1503.50) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOL REGULATIONS
Section
Intoxicating Liquor
   
113.01   Provisions of state law adopted
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Application for license
   
113.04   License fees
   
113.05   Granting of licenses
   
113.06   Persons ineligible for license
   
113.07   Places ineligible for license
   
113.08   Renewal applications
   
113.09   Conditions of license
   
113.10   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
113.11   Revocation
3.2% Malt Liquor
   
113.30   Definitions
   
113.31   License required
   
113.32   General license procedure; application
   
113.33   License fees; generally
   
113.34   Fee refund
   
113.35   Granting of licenses
   
113.36   Duration of license
   
113.37   Transfer of licenses
   
113.38   License renewals
   
113.39   Revocation or suspension of license
   
113.40   Ineligible persons and places
   
113.41   Conditions of license
   
113.42   Hours of sale
   
113.43   Minors
   
113.44   Taverns
   
113.45   Special permit
   
113.46   Enforcement and violation
Sunday Sales
   
113.55   Sale of intoxicating liquors on Sundays
   
113.56   Special license required
   
113.57   Annual fees
 
   
113.99   Penalty; advisory guidelines for violations of city-issued liquor
licenses
INTOXICATING LIQUOR
§ 113.01 PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, applications for license, granting
of license, conditions of license, restrictions on consumption, provisions
relating to sale, conditions of bonds of licensees, hours of sale, and all
other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption of
intoxicating liquor are hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter as if
fully set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 1201.010)
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, except wholesalers or manufacturers to the extent
authorized under state license, shall directly or indirectly deal in, sell, or
keep for sale any intoxicating liquor without first having received a license
to do so as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   Licenses shall be of 4 kinds: "On sale," "off sale," "Sunday sale
license," and 3.2% malt liquor license.
   (C)   "Sunday sales license" shall permit "on sale" on Sunday in accordance
with the provisions of §§
113.55 through
113.57.
(Prior Code, § 1201.020)
§ 113.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for license shall be required upon initial application,
upon renewed application, and upon any change of ownership of business control
of a licensed premises. Every application for a license to sell liquor shall be
verified and filed with the City Clerk. It shall state the name of the
applicant, his or her age, representations as to his or her character, with
such references as may be required, his or her citizenship, whether the
application is for "on sales" or "off sales," the business in connection with
which the proposed license will operate and its location, the nature of the
building and its location on the property, whether applicant is owner and
operator of the business, how long he or she has been in that business at that
place, the amount and nature of any dancing, singing, vaudeville performance,
or other entertainment to be provided for guests, and any other information as
the Council may require from time to time. In addition to containing this
information, each application for a license shall be in the form prescribed by
the Department of Public Safety. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a surety bond,
liability insurance policy, or in lieu thereof, cash or United States
Government bonds of equivalent market value as provided by M.S. § 340A.412,
Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time. The surety bond or other
security shall be in the sum of $5,000 for an applicant for an "on sale"
license and $1,000 for an applicant for an "off sale" license.
   (C)   The security offered under division (B) of this section shall be
approved by the City Council and in the case of applicants for "off sale"
licenses by the Department of Public Safety. Surety bonds and liability
insurance policies shall be approved as to form by the City Attorney. The
operation of the "off sale" or "on sale" liquor business without having on file
at all times with the municipality an effective bond, insurance policy, or
other security as required hereunder shall be grounds for immediate revocation
of the license.
(Prior Code, § 1201.030)
§ 113.04 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a receipt from
the City Treasurer for payment in full of the required fee for the license. All
fees shall be paid into the General Fund of the municipality. Upon rejection of
any application for a license, the Treasurer shall refund the amount paid.
   (B)   All licenses shall expire on the last day of each year. Each license
shall be issued for a period of 1 year, except that if a portion of the license
year has elapsed when the application is made, a license may be issued for the
remainder of the year for a pro-rata fee. In computing the fee, any unexpired
fraction of a month shall be counted as 1 month.
   (C)   The annual fees for an "on sale" license, "off sale" license, "Sunday
sales" license, and a 3.2% malt liquor license shall be as set forth in the
Master Fee Schedule in
Chapter 33 of this code of ordinances. The annual fees prescribed in this
section may be amended from time to time by ordinance of the City Council.
(Am. Ord. 7449, passed 9-16-1986)
   (D)   No refund of any fee shall be permitted except as authorized under
Minnesota Statutes.
   (E)   At the time of the original application for a license, the applicant
shall pay in full an investigation fee, as set forth in §
33.01. No investigation fee shall be refunded. At any time that an additional
investigation is required because of a change in ownership or control or
because of an enlargement, alteration, or extension of premises previously
licensed, the licensee shall pay an additional investigation fee as set forth
in §
33.01.
(Prior Code, § 1201.040)
§ 113.05 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The City Council shall investigate all facts set out in the
application. The Council shall instruct the City Clerk to post and cause to be
published in the official newspaper a notice of hearing to be held by the City
Council, setting forth the day, time, and place of the hearing to be held, the
name of the applicant, the premises of the business and any other information
as the City Council may direct. Notice of the hearing must likewise be sent by
registered mail to the adjacent property owners and any other individuals
designated by the City Council. At the hearing, the opportunity shall be given
to any person to be heard for or against the granting of the license. A
license, other than renewal, shall not be approved or refused before the next
regular meeting of the City Council following the hearing. No "off sale"
license shall become effective until it, together with the bond furnished by
the applicant, has been approved by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Each license shall be issued to the applicant only. Each license shall
be issued only for the premises described in the application.
(Prior Code, § 1201.050)
§ 113.06 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No license shall be granted to any person who is:
   (A)   Not at least 21 years of age;
   (B)   Not the proprietor of the establishment for which the license is
issued;
   (C)   A person convicted of violating any law relating to the sale of 3.2%
malt liquor or of intoxicating liquor within a period of 5 years prior to the
date of the application; or
   (D)   The owner or holder of, or to whom there is hereafter issued, a
Federal Liquor Dealer’s Special Tax Stamp for the sale of intoxicating liquor
at any place, unless there has also been issued to that person a license to
sell intoxicating liquor at the place; and
   (E)   No license shall be granted to or held by any person made ineligible
for such a license by state law.
(Prior Code, § 1201.060) (Am. Ord. 7534, passed 9-18-2012)
§ 113.07 PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No license of any kind shall be granted for any premises where a
license, or his or her agent, servant, or employee has been convicted of a
violation of this code or applicable state law, or where any license hereunder
has been revoked for cause, until 1 year has elapsed after the conviction or
revocation, or a shorter period of time as the Council, in its discretion, may
establish.
   (B)   No license shall be granted for operation of any premises upon which
taxes, assessments, or other financial claims of the city are delinquent and
unpaid.
   (C)   No license shall be issued for any place or for any business
ineligible for such a license under state law.
(Prior Code, § 1201.070) (Am. Ord. 7534, passed 9-18-2012)
§ 113.08 RENEWAL APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for the renewal of an existing license shall be made at least
60 days prior to the date of the expiration of the license and shall be made in
an abbreviated form as the City Council may approve. Proposed enlargement,
alteration, or extension of premises previously licensed shall be reported to
the City Clerk at or before the time application is made. If, in the judgment
of the City Council, good and sufficient cause is shown by an applicant for his
or her failure to file for a renewal within the time provided, the City Council
may, if the other provisions of this subchapter are complied with, approve the
application.
(Prior Code, § 1201.080)
§ 113.09 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every license shall be granted, subject to the conditions in the
following sections and all other provisions of this subchapter and of any other
applicable ordinance of the city or state law.
   (B)   Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of his or her
place of business and the conditions of sobriety and order in it.
   (C)   Any member of the Sheriff's Department, health officer, or any
properly designated officer or employee of the city shall have the unqualified
right to enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee during
business hours without a warrant.
   (D)   Only the dancing, singing, vaudeville performance, or other
entertainment stated on the application shall be allowed. Each performance of
any dancing, singing, vaudeville performance, or other entertainment not stated
on the application shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall also be grounds for
revocation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 1201.090)
§ 113.10 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   No minor shall misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
obtaining intoxicating liquor.
   (B)   No person shall induce a minor to purchase or procure liquor.
   (C)   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public
place or place of business not licensed to sell liquor "on sale" and no person
shall consume liquor in any such place.
   (D)   No liquor shall be sold or consumed on a public highway or in an
automobile.
(Prior Code, § 1201.100)
§ 113.11 REVOCATION.
   The Council may suspend or revoke any liquor license for violation of any
provision or condition of this subchapter or any state law regulating the sale
of intoxicating liquor and shall revoke the license if the licensee willfully
violates any provision of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to
time. Except in the case of a suspension pending a hearing on revocation,
suspension by the Council shall be preceded by written notice to the grantee
and a public hearing. The notice shall be given at least 8 days' notice of the
time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature of the charges against
the licensee. The Council may, without any advance notice, suspend any license
pending a hearing on revocation for a period of time not exceeding 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 1201.110)
3.2% MALT LIQUOR
§ 113.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEER or 3.2% MALT LIQUOR.  Any fermented, potable malt beverage containing
not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume nor more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   BONA FIDE CLUB. A club organized for social or business purposes or for
intellectual improvement or for the promotion of sports, where the serving of
3.2% malt liquor is incidental to and not a major purpose of the club.
   HOTEL. Any establishment having a resident proprietor or manager where, in
consideration of payment therefor, food and lodging are regularly furnished to
transients, which maintains for the use of its guests not less than 10 guest
rooms with bedding and other usual suitable and necessary furnishings in each
room, which is provided at the main entrance with a suitable lobby, desk, and
office for the registration of its guests on the ground floor, which employs an
adequate staff to provide suitable and usual service, and which maintains under
the same management and control as the rest of the establishment and has, as an
integral part thereof, a dining room with appropriate facilities for seating
not less than 30 guests at 1 time, where the general public are, in
consideration of payment therefor, served with meals at tables.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Ethyl alcohol, distilled, fermented, spirituous,
vinous, and malt beverages containing in excess of 3.2% of alcohol by weight.
   OFF SALE. Any sale of 3.2% malt liquor in the original package for
consumption off the premises only.
   ON SALE. Any sale of 3.2% malt liquor to be consumed on the licensed
premises.
   PACKAGE or ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any corked or sealed bottle or container or
receptacle holding 3.2% malt liquor.
   PERSON. Includes a natural person of either sex, a co-partnership, a
corporation, an association of persons, and an agent or manager of any of the
aforesaid.
   RESTAURANT. Any establishment, other than a hotel, having appropriate
facilities for the serving of meals to not less than 30 guests at 1 time. To
qualify as a RESTAURANT, the establishment shall meet all of the following
conditions:
      (1)   Meals shall be regularly furnished at tables to the general public,
in consideration of payment therefor;
      (2)   An adequate staff shall be employed to provide the usual and
suitable services to its guests;
      (3)   The principal part of its business shall be the serving of foods;
      (4)   It shall be under the control of a single proprietor or manager;
and
      (5)   The ground floor of the establishment must comprise an area of not
less than 2,000 square feet of usual floor space, which area may include the
back bar area in addition to the area used for dining and drinking, but shall
exclude the kitchen and storage areas.
   SALOON.  An establishment, such as a bar or a lounge, which sells 3.2% malt
liquor on sale at retail and which may also sell cigars, cigarettes, and all
forms of tobacco, beverages, and soft drinks.
   TAVERN. An establishment for the retail on sale of 3.2% malt liquors, and
which in addition, provides dancing, singing, or vaudeville performances or
entertainment for its guests, or provides for them the privilege of dancing.
(Prior Code, § 1202.010)
§ 113.31 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, except wholesalers and manufacturers to the extent
authorized by law, shall deal in or dispose of by gift, sale or otherwise, or
keep or offer for sale any beer within the village without first having
received a license as hereinafter provided. Licenses shall be of 2 kinds:
      (1)   Retail "on sale;" and
      (2)   Retail "off sale."
   (B)   "On sale" licenses shall be granted only to bona fide clubs, beer
stores, drug stores, restaurants, and hotels where food is prepared and served
for consumption on the premises. "On sale" licenses shall permit the sale of
beer for consumption on the premises only.
   (C)   "Off sale" licenses shall permit the sale of beer at retail, in the
original package for consumption off the premises only.
(Prior Code, § 1202.020) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.32 GENERAL LICENSE PROCEDURE; APPLICATION.
   (A)   General.  Every application for a license to sell 3.2% malt liquor
shall be made on a form supplied by the city and shall state the name of the
applicant, his or her age, representations as to his or her character with any
references as may be required, his or her citizenship, whether the application
is for "on sale" or "off sale," the business in connection with which the
proposed license will operate, and its location, whether the applicant is the
owner and operator of the business, how long he or she has been in that
business at that place, the amount and nature of any dancing, singing,
vaudeville performance, or other entertainment to be provided for guests, and
any other information as the Council may require from time to time.
      (1)   Except for resorts, a scale drawing of the floor plan of the
proposed licensed premises shall be attached to each application. It shall be
unlawful to make any false statement in the application.
      (2)   Applications shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (B)   Corporations. In addition to the above, an application for an "on
sale" or "off sale" license on behalf of a corporation shall include complete
information as to the names, addresses, and occupations of the stockholders and
officers of the corporation and other information required by the Council.
Corporate officers shall notify the Council whenever any change is made in the
officers of any such corporation and whenever there is a proposed sale or
transfer of corporate stock.
(Prior Code, § 1202.030) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.33 LICENSE FEES; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Payment in full. Each application for a license shall be accompanied
by a receipt from the City Clerk for payment in full of the required fee for
the license. All fees shall be paid into the General Fund of the municipality.
   (B)   Annual fees. The annual fees for an "on sale" and an "off-sale"
license and for a 3.2% malt liquor license shall be as set forth in the Master
Fee Schedule in
Chapter 33 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Periodic review. The annual fees set forth in division (B) may be
reviewed and amended from time to time by ordinance of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1202.040) (Am. Ord. 7449, passed 9-16-1986)
§ 113.34 FEE REFUND.
   No part of the fee paid for any license under this code shall be refunded
except:
   (A)   Rejected application. Upon the rejection of an application for a
license, the City Clerk shall refund the amount paid.
   (B)   Death of licensee.  Upon the death of a licensee, provided that the
application for refund is made to the Council within 90 days of the date of
licensee's death, there shall be refunded a pro-rata portion of the fee
computed on a monthly basis for any unexpired period of the license that
exceeds 1 month.
(Prior Code, § 1202.050)
§ 113.35 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall investigate the applicant and the
representations set forth in the application. Any person who wants to be heard
either for or against the license shall be heard at a special or general
meeting of the City Council. The City Council shall either approve or reject
the application.
      (2)   If approved, the City Administrator shall issue the license,
providing the fee has been paid and the license approved by the Department of
Public Safety when applicable.
   (B)   No license shall be transferable by the licensee or to other premises
than that described in the original application.
(Prior Code, § 1202.060)
§ 113.36 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All licenses issued under this subchapter shall expire on December 31
of each year. Each license shall be issued for a period of 1 year, except that
if a portion of the licensed year has elapsed when the application is made, a
license shall be issued for the remainder of the year.
   (B)   In case of death of any licensee of any "off sale" or "on sale" 3.2%
malt liquor beverages, his or her personal representative is hereby authorized
to continue operation of the business for not more than 90 days after the death
of the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 1202.070)
§ 113.37 TRANSFER OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Generally. Each license shall be issued only to the applicant and only
for the premises described in the application. No license may be transferred to
another person or place without the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   Corporations. The transfer of stock in any corporation holding an "on
sale" or "off sale" license shall be deemed a transfer within the meaning of
this subchapter, and no transfer of stock shall be made without the consent of
the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1202.080)
§ 113.38 LICENSE RENEWALS.
   Applications for renewal of an existing license shall be filed with the City
Clerk on or before June 1.
(Prior Code, § 1202.090)
§ 113.39 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Generally.  The Council may revoke a 3.2% malt liquor license for
violation of any statute or ordinance relating to the sale of 3.2% malt liquor.
The following shall be deemed sufficient cause for revocation:
      (1)   If the officers of a corporation licensee fail to notify the
Council of a proposed sale or transfer of corporate stock or of a change in the
corporate officers;
      (2)   If any 3.2% malt liquor licensee is the owner and holder of a
Federal Retail Liquor Dealer's Special Tax Stamp and does not have a license to
sell intoxicating liquors pursuant to the laws of this state for that place,
the licensee's 3.2% malt liquor license shall be revoked by the City Council
without notice and without a hearing on the revocation; or
      (3)   If any dancing, singing, vaudeville performance, or other
entertainment is provided for guests other than that stated in the application
for the license.
   (B)   Hearing. Licensee shall be granted a hearing upon at least 10 days'
notice before revocation or suspension is ordered by the Council, where
mandatory revocation is not provided by law.
   (C)   Length of suspension. No suspension shall exceed 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 1202.100)
§ 113.40 INELIGIBLE PERSONS AND PLACES.
   (A)   Persons. No license shall be granted to any person who is:
      (1)   Not at least 21 years of age;
      (2)   Not the proprietor of the establishment for which the license is
issued;
      (3)   A person convicted of violating any law relating to the sale of
3.2% malt liquor or of intoxicating liquor within a period of 5 years prior to
the date of the application; or
      (4)   The owner or holder of, or to whom there is hereafter issued, a
Federal Liquor Dealer’s Special Tax Stamp for the sale of intoxicating liquor
at any place, unless there has also been issued to that person a license to
sell intoxicating liquor at the place; and
      (5)   No license shall be granted or held by any person made ineligible
for such a license by state law.
   (B)   Places.
      (1)   No license of any kind shall be granted for any premises where a
licensee, or his or her agent, servant, or employee has been convicted of a
violation of this code or applicable state law, or where any license hereunder
has been revoked for cause, until 1 year has elapsed after the conviction or
revocation, or a shorter period of time as the Council, in its discretion, may
establish.
      (2)   No license shall be granted for operation of any premises upon
which taxes, assessments, or other financial claims of the city are delinquent
and unpaid.
      (3)   No license shall be issued for any place or for any business
ineligible for such license under state law.
(Prior Code, § 1202.110) (Am. Ord. 7534, passed 9-18-2012)
§ 113.41 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   Every license shall be granted subject to the following paragraphs and all
the provisions of this Code and of any other applicable law.
   (A)   All licensed premises shall have the license posted in a conspicuous
place at all times.
   (B)   3.2% malt liquor shall not be sold or served to any intoxicated
person.
   (C)   No gambling or any gambling device shall be permitted on any licensed
premises.
   (D)   No manufacturer or wholesaler of 3.2% malt liquor shall have any
ownership of or interest in an establishment licensed to sell at retail
contrary to the provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time
to time. No retail licensee and manufacturer or wholesaler of 3.2% malt liquor
shall be parties to any exclusive purchase contract. No retail licensee shall
receive any benefits contrary to law from a manufacturer or wholesaler of 3.2%
malt liquor, and no such manufacturer or wholesaler shall confer any benefits
contrary to law upon a retail licensee.
   (E)   No licensee who is not also licensed to sell intoxicating liquor shall
sell or permit the consumption or display of intoxicating liquors on the
licensed premises or serve any liquids for the purpose of mixing with
intoxicating liquor, provided that this section shall not apply to any place
licensed as a bottle club, pursuant to the applicable Minnesota Statutes. The
presence of intoxicating liquors on the premises of a licensee shall be prima
facie evidence of possession of intoxicating liquors for the purposes of sale.
   (F)   Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of his or her
place of business and shall maintain conditions of sobriety and order.
   (G)   No tobacco products or soft drinks shall be sold in any saloon or
tavern during the hours when the sale of 3.2% malt liquor is prohibited.
   (H)   No person shall consume or display any intoxicating liquor on the
premises of the licensee, provided that this section shall not apply to any
place licensed as a bottle club, pursuant to the applicable Minnesota Statutes.
(Prior Code, § 1202.120) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.42 HOURS OF SALE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference herein to govern the closing
hours and permissible hours of sale of non- intoxicating liquor.
(Prior Code, § 1202.130) (Am. Ord. 7440, passed 9-18-1984)
§ 113.43 MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any:
   (A)   Licensee or his or her employee to sell or serve 3.2% malt liquor to
any minor or to permit any minor to consume 3.2% malt liquor on the licensed
premises or to permit any minor to loiter or to remain in the room where 3.2%
malt liquor is being sold or served, unless accompanied by his or her parent or
legal guardian;
   (B)   Person other than the parent or legal guardian to procure 3.2% malt
liquor or any minor;
   (C)   Person to induce a minor to purchase or procure 3.2% malt liquor;
   (D)   Minor to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of obtaining 3.2%
malt liquor;
   (E)   Minor to consume any 3.2% malt liquor unless in the company of his or
her parent or guardian; and
   (F)   Minor to have in his or her possession any 3.2% malt liquor, with
intent to consume same at a place other than the household of his or her parent
or guardian. Possession of the 3.2% malt liquor at a place other than the
household of his or her parent or guardian shall be prima facie evidence of
intent to consume the same at a place other than the household of his or her
parent or guardian.
(Prior Code, § 1202.140)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty in general, and penalty for sale to minors, see §
113.99
§ 113.44 TAVERNS.
   (A)   License required. No person shall operate a tavern in the city without
a license as hereafter provided for.
   (B)   Application procedure. Any person desiring a license to operate a
tavern shall file his or her application in writing with the City Clerk. Every
application shall be made on a form supplied by the city and shall state the
name of the applicant, his or her age, his or her address, representations as
to his or her character with any references as may be required, his or her
citizenship, the exact location of the premises upon which the applicant
proposes to operate a tavern, whether the applicant has ever been engaged in
any similar business, and if so, the location thereof and the dates when so
engaged, whether the applicant proposes to permit dancing and whether
vaudeville entertainment will be permitted, and any other information as the
Council may require from time to time. In case the applicant proposes to permit
dancing, the application shall set forth the amount of floor space which the
applicant proposes to maintain for dancing purposes. It shall be unlawful to
make any false statement in an application.
   (C)   Investigation of applicant.  The Council shall order the investigation
of the application as it considers necessary, and any member of the Council,
member of the Sheriff's Department, health officer, or any properly designated
employee of the city shall have the unqualified right to enter, inspect, and
search the premises described in the application, together with all the
appliances and instruments to be used in the transaction of the business for
which the license is sought, during regular business hours.
      (1)   Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or against
the granting of a tavern license.
      (2)   After the investigation and hearing, the City Council may grant or
refuse the application in its discretion.
   (D)   Fee.  
      (1)   The annual fee for a tavern license shall be as set forth in §
33.01. Each application for a tavern license shall be accompanied by a receipt
from the City Clerk for payment in full of the required fee for the license.
All fees shall be paid into the General Fund of the municipality.
      (2)   Upon rejection of any application for a tavern license, the City
Clerk shall refund the amount paid.
   (E)   Duration of license. All tavern licenses shall expire on December 31
in each year. Each license shall be issued for a period of 1 year, except that
if a portion of the license year has elapsed when the application is made, a
license shall be issued for the remainder of the license year.
   (F)   License renewals. Applications for renewal of an existing license
shall be filed with the City Clerk on or before June 1.
(Prior Code, § 1202.150) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.45 SPECIAL PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to the licensing provisions hereof, the City Council
may grant a special on sale 3.2% malt liquor permit to charitable or non-profit
social organizations, lodges, labor organizations and churches, whether or not
included within the definition of the term "bona fide" club as hereinbefore set
forth, for a period not to exceed 48 hours and no more frequently than 3 times
per calendar year.
      (2)   The license fee for special permits shall be determined at the
February City Council meeting each year.
   (B)   A special permit holder as herein provided for shall be subject to all
other applicable provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1202.160)
§ 113.46 ENFORCEMENT AND VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any member of the Council, member of the Sheriff's Department, health
officer, or any properly designated employee of the city shall have the
unqualified right to enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours without a warrant for the purposes of determining whether
any of the provisions of the subchapter are being violated and may seize all
intoxicating liquors found on the licensed premises.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 1202.170) Penalty, see §
113.99
SUNDAY SALES
§ 113.55 SALE OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS ON SUNDAYS.
   In all hotels, restaurants, or clubs, as the same are defined in M.S. §
340A.101, as it may be amended from time to time, the definitions of which are
hereby adopted by reference, which have facilities for serving not less than 30
guests at 1 time, may serve intoxicating liquors between the hours of 10:00
a.m. and 12:00 a.m. midnight on Sundays in conjunction with the serving of
food, provided that the license establishment is in conformance with the
Minnesota Clean Indoor Air Act, being M.S. §§ 144.411 to 411.417, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1203.010) (Am. Ord. 7431, passed 5-19-1982)
§ 113.56 SPECIAL LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No establishment to which "on sale" licenses have been issued or hereafter
may be issued for the sale of intoxicating liquors which are hotels or
restaurants as defined in M.S. § 340A.504, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from
time to time, may serve intoxicating liquors on Sundays without first having
received a special license to do so as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1203.020)
§ 113.57 ANNUAL FEES.
   The annual fee for a special license to sell intoxicating liquor on Sundays
in the city shall be as set forth in
Chapter 33 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1203.030)
§ 113.99 PENALTY; ADVISORY GUIDELINES FOR VIOLATIONS OF CITY-ISSUED LIQUOR
LICENSES.
   (A)   The following designated civil penalties shall constitute advisory
guidelines for City Council action in cases of violation of city-issued liquor
licenses. It is understood that the Council may deviate from these advisory
guidelines based upon compelling circumstances presented in individual cases.
 
                            First offense:       $500 civil fine
                                                 $1,000 civil fine and one 5-
                                                 day license suspension
                                                 (Monday through Friday) for
                            Second offense:      "off sale" licensees; and 3
Sale of alcoholic beverages                      weekend days suspension
to minors (or permit a                           (Friday through Sunday) for
person under the age of 21                       "on sale" licensees
years to drink alcoholic                         $1,500 civil fine and a 10-
beverages on the licensed                        day license suspension [to
premises):                                       include at least 1 weekend
                            Third offense:       day (Friday or Saturday)] for
                                                 "off sale" licensees; and a
                                                 7-day suspension for "on
                                                 sale" licensees
                            Fourth or subsequent At City Council discretion
                            offense:
 
   (B)   It is the policy of the City Council that the above sanctions shall be
issued and calculated as against all offenses occurring within a 24-consecutive
month period from the date of the most recent violation. Any violations having
occurred beyond 24 consecutive months prior to the most recent violation shall
not be counted in terms of imposing the sanctions noted above.
   (C)   If the City Council imposes a civil fine, the Council shall also allow
the license holder a reasonable time to pay the fine. A REASONABLE TIME TO PAY
means that all fines shall be paid within 60 days unless the Council determines
that a longer period of time is justified under the circumstances of the case.
Failure of a license holder to pay a fine within the time prescribed by the
City Council shall cause that license to be immediately suspended until full
payment is received by the city.
   (D)   Any license holder who has had his or her license or permits suspended
or revoked pursuant to city action shall not be allowed to operate the activity
which required the license until the license is reinstated. Any operation
during a period of suspension or revocation shall be deemed to be an additional
violation of the city's liquor license ordinance and of state law.
(Res. 2001-1201-01, passed 3-20-2001)
CHAPTER 114: TOBACCO REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions; Licensing
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Definitions and interpretations
   
114.03   License
   
114.04   Fees
   
114.05   Basis for denial of license
Specific Regulations
   
114.15   Prohibited sales
   
114.16   Vending machines prohibited
   
114.17   Self-service sales
   
114.18   Responsibility
   
114.19   Compliance checks and inspections
   
114.20   Other illegal acts
   
114.21   Exceptions and defenses
 
   
114.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS; LICENSING
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   The city recognizes that many persons under the age of 18 years purchase or
otherwise obtain, possess, and use tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related
devices, nicotine delivery products and such sales, possession, and use are
violations of state and federal laws; and because studies, which the city
hereby accepts and adopts, have shown that most smokers begin smoking before
they have reached the age of 18 years and those persons who reach the age of 18
years without having started smoking are significantly less likely to begin
smoking; and because smoking has been shown to be the cause of several serious
health problems which subsequently place a financial burden on all levels of
government; this chapter shall be intended to regulate the sale, possession,
and use of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, and nicotine
delivery products for the purpose of enforcing and furthering existing laws, to
protect minors against the serious effects associated with the illegal use of
tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, and nicotine delivery
products and to further the official public policy of the state in regard to
preventing young people from starting to smoke as stated in M.S. § 144.391.
(Ord. 7530, passed 8-16-2011)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all
terms shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The term SHALL means
mandatory and the term MAY means permissive.
   (B)   The following terms shall have the definitions given to them:
      COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure
that those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related
devices, and nicotine delivery products are following and complying with the
requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS may involve the use of minors
as authorized by this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the use of
minors who attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related
devices, and nicotine delivery products for educational, research, and training
purposes as authorized by state and federal laws. COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be
conducted by other units of government for the purpose of enforcing appropriate
federal, state, or local laws and regulations relating to tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco related devices, and nicotine delivery products.
      INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco, tobacco
product, or nicotine delivery product wrapped individually for sale.
Individually wrapped tobacco and tobacco products shad include, but not be
limited to, single cigarette packs, single bags or cans of loose tobacco in any
form, and single cans or other packaging of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons
or other packaging containing more than a single pack or other container as
described in this division shall not be considered INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED.
      LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or individually
packaged cigarette.
      MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 18 years.
      MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a truck,
van, automobile, or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a
fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized for
sales transactions.
      NICOTINE DELIVERY PRODUCTS. A product containing or delivering nicotine
or lobelia intended for human consumption, or any part of such a product, that
is not tobacco as defined by M.S. § 609.685.
      RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco related devices, or nicotine delivery products are available
for sale to the general public. RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS shall include, but not
limited to, grocery stores, convenience stores, and restaurants.
      SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter, or other
consideration.
      SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco related devices, or nicotine delivery products in any way where any
person shall have access to the product without the assistance or intervention
of the licensee or an employee of the premise maintaining the self-service
merchandising. SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING shall not include vending machines.
      TOBACCO OR TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any product, substance or item containing
tobacco leaf or derived from tobacco that is intended for human consumption,
whether chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or
ingested. Tobacco or tobacco products shall include but are not limited to,
cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, fine cut or other chewing tobacco,
cheroots, stogies, periques, granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready-rubbed, and
other smoking tobacco, snuff, snuff flour, cavendish, shorts, plug and twist
tobaccos, dipping tobaccos, refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and sweepings
of tobacco, and other kinds and forms of tobacco leaf. TOBACCO PRODUCTS
excludes any tobacco product that has been approved by the United States Food
and Drug Administration for legal sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a
tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being
marketed and sold solely for such an approved purpose.
      TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES. Any tobacco product as well as a pipe, rolling
papers, or other device used in a manner which enables the chewing, sniffing,
or smoking of tobacco or tobacco products.
      VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or
nicotine delivery products upon the insertion of money, tokens, or other form
of payment directly into the machine by the person seeking to purchase the
tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related device, or nicotine delivery product.
VENDING MACHINE includes, but is not limited to those machines equipped with
manual, electric or electronic locking devices which may only be activated by
the licensee for each individual sale.
(Ord. 7530, passed 8-16-2011)
§ 114.03 LICENSE.
   No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco
related device, or nicotine delivery products without first having obtained a
license to do so from the city.
   (A)   Application. An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco related devices, or nicotine delivery products shall be made
on a form provided by the city. The application shall contain the full name of
the applicant, the applicant’s residential and business addresses and telephone
numbers, the name and location of the business for which the license is sought,
and any additional information the city deems necessary. Upon receipt of a
completed application, the city administrator shall forward the application to
the council for action at its next regularly scheduled council meeting. If the
City Administrator shall determine that an application is incomplete, he or she
shall return the application to the applicant with notice of the information
necessary to make the application complete.
   (B)   Action. The council may either approve or deny the license, or it may
delay action for such reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
council shall approve the license, the city administrator shall issue the
license to the applicant. If the council denies the license, notice of the
denial shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant’s
right to appeal the council’s decision.
   (C)   Term. All licenses issued under this article shall be valid for one
calendar year running from January 1 through December 31.
   (D)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended as provided in the violations and penalties section of
this chapter.
   (E)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or
person shall be valid without the prior approval of the council.
   (F)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this chapter.
   (G)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premise.
   (H)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 60 days but no more than 90 days before the
expiration of the current license. The issuance of a license issued under this
chapter shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute right of the
applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the
license.
(Ord. 7530, passed 8-16-2011) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 FEES.  
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The annual fee for a license under this chapter
shall be established in Chapter 33 Fee Schedule, of the Lakeland City Code.
(Ord. 7530, passed 8-16-2011) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a
license under this chapter; however, except as may otherwise be provided by
law, the existence of any particular ground for denial does not mean that the
city must deny the license. If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a
person, it shall be revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible
for the license under this section.
   (A)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years.
   (B)   The applicant has been convicted within the past 5 years of any
violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or
nicotine delivery products.
   (C)   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco related devices, or nicotine delivery products revoked within the
preceding 12 months of the date of application.
   (D)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information.
   (E)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation from holding such a license.
(Ord. 7530, passed 8-16-2011)
SPECIFIC REGULATIONS
§ 114.15 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to
sell any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related device, or nicotine delivery
products:
   (A)   To any person under the age of 18 years;
   (B)   By means of any type of vending machine, as limited according to M.S.
§ 461.18;
   (C)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need to
make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premise in
order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related device, or
nicotine delivery products and whereby there is not a physical exchange of
tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, and nicotine delivery
products between the licensee or the licensee’s employee and the customer;
   (D)   By means of loosies as defined in section
114.02 of this chapter;
   (E)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other type of deleterious, hallucinogenic, or toxic or
controlled substance except nicotine and not naturally found in tobacco or
tobacco products; or
   (F)   By any other means or to any other person, prohibited by federal,
state, or other local law, ordinance provision, or other regulation;
   Without first having obtained a license to do so from the city.
   (G)   To sell tobacco use cessation products as described in M.S. § 609.685
to any person under the age of 18 except as legally allowed by the United
States Food and Drug Administration with a prescription.
(Ord. 7530, passed 8-16-2011) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.16 VENDING MACHINES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or nicotine
delivery products by the means of a vending machine.
(Ord. 7530, passed 8-16-2011) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.17 SELF-SERVICE SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to, allow the sale of
tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or nicotine delivery
products by any means where.by the customer may have access to such items
without having to request the item from the licensee or the licensee’s
employee. All tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, and nicotine
delivery products shall either be stored behind a counter or other area not
accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage unit not left open and
accessible to the general public.
(Ord. 7530, passed 8-16-2011) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.18 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to their sale of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco
related devices, or nicotine delivery products on the licensed premises, and
the sale of such an item by an employee shall be considered a sale by the
license holder. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the
city from also subjecting the clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under
this chapter, state or federal law, or other appropriate law or regulation.
(Ord. 7530, passed 8-16-2011)
§ 114.19 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the city police
or other authorized city official during regular business hours. From time to
time, but at least twice per year, the city shall conduct compliance checks by
engaging minors, over the age of 15 and under the age of 18, with a written
consent from their parent or guardian,, to enter the licensed premise to
attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or
nicotine delivery products. Minors used for the purpose of compliance checks
shall be supervised by designated city personnel and not be guilty of unlawful
possession or purchase of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices,
or nicotine delivery products when such items are obtained as a part of the
compliance check. No minor used in compliance checks shall attempt to use a
false identification misrepresenting the minor’s age, and all minors lawfully
engaged in a compliance check shall answer ail questions about the minors age
asked by the licensee or his or her employee and shall produce any
identification for which he or she is asked.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by
state or federal laws for educational, research, or training purposes, or
required for the enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(Ord. 7530, passed 8-16-2011)
§ 114.20 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter:
   (A)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco
related device, or nicotine delivery products. This division shall not apply to
a person under the age of 18 years who purchases or attempts to purchase
tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or nicotine delivery
products while under the direct supervision of a responsible adult for
training, education, research or enforcement purposes.
   (B)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to
smoke, chew, sniff, inhale, snort, absorb, dissolve, ingest or otherwise use
any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related device, or nicotine delivery
products.
   (C)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco,
tobacco product, tobacco related device, or nicotine delivery products; any
person to purchase or otherwise obtain such items on behalf of a minor; any
person to sell or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco
related device, or nicotine delivery products to any minor; any person to
coerce or attempt to coerce a minor to illegally purchase or otherwise obtain
or use any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related device, or nicotine
delivery products. This subdivision shall not apply to a person under the age
of 18 years who purchases or attempts to purchase tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco related devices, or nicotine delivery products while under the direct
supervision of a responsible adult for training, education, research, or
enforcement purposes and/or lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (D)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any minor to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of a false
form of identification, whether the identification is that of another person or
one on which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with to
represent an age older than the actual age of the person.
   (E)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor
under the age of 16 to sell tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices,
or nicotine delivery products or for a licensee to cause or permit a minor
under the age of 16 to sell tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices,
or nicotine delivery products.
(Ord. 7530, passed 8-16-2011) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.21 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco related devices, or nicotine delivery products to a minor as
part of a lawfully recognized religious, spiritual or cultural ceremony. It
shall be an affirmative defense to the violation of this chapter for a person
to have reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state law.
(Ord. 7530, passed 8-16-2011)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   A licensee found to be in violation of this chapter is subject to fines as
established in
Chapter 33, Fee Schedule, of the Lakeland City Code, may be subject to
suspension or revocation of the license by the city council, and may be subject
to misdemeanor prosecution. Other persons or employees of a licensed premises
found to be in violation of this ordinance may be subject to prosecution for a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 7530, passed 8-16-2011)
CHAPTER 115: LICENSING AND REGULATION OF ADULT USES
Section
   
115.01   Statement of policy
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Licenses
   
115.04   Conditions of license, generally
   
115.05   Conditions of license, adult use–principal
   
115.06   Conditions of license, adult use–accessory
   
115.07   Revocation, suspension, or nonrenewal of license
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   The City Council deems it necessary to provide for the special and
express regulation of businesses or commercial enterprises which operate as
adult body painting studios, adult bookstores, adult cabarets, adult
companionship establishments, adult hotels or motels, adult massage parlors or
health clubs, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult modeling studios, adult
motion picture arcades or theaters, adult novelty businesses, adult saunas, and
similar adult oriented services operating under different names in order to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare, and to guard against the
inception and transmission of disease. The City Council further finds that the
commercial enterprises such as the types described above and all other similar
establishments whose services include sessions offered to adults conducted in
private by members of the same or opposite sex, and employing personnel with no
specialized training, are susceptible to operation in a manner contravening,
subverting, or endangering the morals of the city by being the site of acts of
prostitution, illicit sex, and occasions of violent crimes, and thus requiring
close inspection, licensing, and regulation.
   (B)   The City Council also finds that control and regulation of commercial
establishments of these types, in view of the abuses often perpetrated, require
intensive efforts by the Sheriff's Department and other departments of the
city. As a consequence, the concentrated use of city services in such control
detracts from and reduces the level of service available to the rest of the
city and thereby diminishes the ability of the city to promote the general
health, welfare, morals, and safety of the city. In consideration for the
necessity on the part of the city to provide numerous services to all segments
of the city without a concentration of public services in 1 area working to the
detriment of the members of the general public, it is hereby decided that the
above described uses shall be limited to areas within the RB Zoning District
located no less than 1,000 feet from churches, schools, licensed day cares,
parks, and playgrounds as a conditional use requiring the issuance of a
conditional use permit by the City Council and the appropriate licenses as
described herein.
(Ord. 7510, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT USES. Includes adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult
mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage parlors, adult steam room/bath-
house/sauna facilities, adult companionship establishments, adult rap/
conversation parlors, adult health/sports clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty
businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotels/
motels, adult body painting studios, and other premises, enterprises,
establishments, businesses, or places open to some or all members of the public
at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction, or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas which
are capable of being seen by members of the public. Activities classified as
obscene as defined by M.S. § 617.241, as it may be amended from time to time,
are not lawful and are not included in the definition of ADULT USES.
   ADULT USES–ACCESSORY. The offering of goods and/or services which are
classified as adult uses on a limited scale and which are incidental to the
primary activity and goods and/or services offered by the establishment.
Examples of such items include adult magazines, adult movies, adult novelties,
and the like.
   ADULT USES–PRINCIPAL. The offering of goods and/or services which are
classified as adult uses as a primary or sole activity of a business or
establishment, and include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)    ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO.  An establishment or business which
provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent
or nontransparent, to or on the body of a patron when the body is wholly or
partially nude in terms of specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE.  A business engaging in the barter, rental, or
sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides, records,
audiotapes, videotapes, motion picture film, or any other similar materials, if
such shop is not open to the public generally but only to 1 or more classes of
the public, excluding any minor by reason of age, or if a substantial or
significant portion of the items are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET.  An establishment which provides dancing or other
live entertainment if the dancing or other live entertainment is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on the performance, depiction, or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (4)   ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT.  A companionship establishment,
if the establishment excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the
service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion
between an employee of the establishment and a customer, if the service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (5)   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Adult bookstores, adult motion picture
theaters, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage parlors, adult
saunas, adult companionship establishments, adult health clubs, adult cabarets,
adult novelty businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling studios,
adult hotels or motels, adult body painting studios, and other adult
establishments.
      (6)   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. A business engaging in any of the following
activities or which utilizes any of the following business procedures or
practices; either:
         (a)   Any business which is conducted exclusively for the patronage of
adults and as to which minors are specifically excluded from patronage thereat
either by law or by the operators of the business; or
         (b)   Any other business which offers its patrons services or
entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, exposing,
describing, discussing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas. Specifically included in the term, but without limitation,
are adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult mini-motion picture
theaters, adult massage parlors, adult saunas, adult companionship
establishments, adult health clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty businesses,
adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotel or motel, and
adult body painting studios.
      (7)    ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL.  A hotel or motel from which minors are
specifically excluded from patronage and wherein material is presented which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (8)   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club
which restricts minors by reason of age, and which provides the services of
massage, if the service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (9)    ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business premises within an
enclosed building with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting
visual media material, if the business as a prevailing practice excludes minors
by virtue of age, or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
      (10)   ADULT MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is
the provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the
intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such
customers and who engage in specified sexual activities or display specified
anatomical areas while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed, or otherwise depicted by such customers.
      (11)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited, wherein coin-operated or slug or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to 5
or fewer persons per machine at any 1 time, and where the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specific anatomical areas.
      (12)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATERS. A business premises within an
enclosed building with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting
visual media material, if the business as a prevailing practice excludes minors
by virtue of age, or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
      (13)   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has as a principal
activity the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which
are designed for sexual stimulation.
      (14)   ADULT SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, or
which provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning,
relaxing, or reducing agent, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Anatomical areas consisting of:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, anus, or female breast(s) below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Activities consisting of the following:
      (1)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexually oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquierism, sapphism, zooerasty;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal, or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus, or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breast;
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding, or other
physical restraint of any such persons;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal, or anal
irrigation.
(Ord. 7510, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 115.03 LICENSES.
   (A)   License required.  No person, firm, or corporation shall operate an
adult use in the city without having first secured a licensee as hereinafter
provided. Licenses shall be 1 of 2 types:
      (1)   Adult use, principal; or
      (2)   Adult use, accessory.
   (B)   Applications.  The application for an adult use license shall include:
      (1)   The name, residence, phone number, and birthdate of the applicant,
if an individual; and if a corporation, the names, residences, phone numbers,
and birthdates of those owners holding more than 5% of the outstanding stock of
the corporation;
      (2)   The name, address, phone number, and birthdate of the manager of
the operation, if different from the owners;
      (3)   The premises wherein the adult use is to be located;
      (4)   A statement detailing each gross misdemeanor or felony relating to
a sex offense and/or the operation of adult uses and related activities of
which the applicant or, in the case of a corporation, the owners of more than
5% of the outstanding stock of the corporation, have been convicted, and
whether or not the applicant has ever applied for or held a license to operate
a similar type of business in other communities;
      (5)   The activities and types of business to be conducted;
      (6)   The hours of operation;
      (7)   The provisions made to restrict access by minors; and
      (8)   A building plan of the premises detailing all internal operations
and activities.
   (C)   License fees.
      (1)   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a receipt
from the City Finance Director for payment in full of the required fee for the
license as established by City Council ordinance from time to time. All fees
shall be paid into the General Fund of the city. Upon rejection of any
application for a license, the Finance Director shall refund the amount paid.
      (2)   All licenses shall expire on the last day of June in each year.
Each license shall be issued for a period of 1 year, except that if a portion
of the license year has elapsed when the application is made, a license may be
issued for the remainder of the year for a pro-rata fee. In computing the fee,
any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as 1 month.
      (3)   The annual fee for an adult use license shall be as established by
City Council ordinance from time to time and set forth in §
33.01.
      (4)   No part of the fee paid for any license issued under this chapter
shall be refunded except in the following instances upon application to the
City Administrator within 30 days from the happening of the event. There shall
be refunded a pro-rata portion of the fee for the unexpired period of the
license, computed on a monthly basis, when operation of the licensed business
ceases not less than 1 month before expiration of the license because of:
         (a)   Destruction or damage of the licensed premises by fire or other
catastrophe;
         (b)   The licensee's illness;
         (c)   The licensee's death;
         (d)   A change in the legal status making it unlawful for the licensed
business to continue.
   (D)   Granting of license.
      (1)   The city shall investigate all facts set out in the application.
Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or against the
granting of the license. After the investigation and a public hearing, the City
Council shall grant or refuse the application.
      (2)   Each license shall be issued to the applicant only and shall not be
transferable to another holder. Each license shall be issued only for the
premises described in the application. No license may be transferred to another
place without the approval of the City Council.
   (E)   Persons ineligible for license. No license shall be granted or held by
any person:
      (1)   Under 21 years of age;
      (2)   Who has been convicted of a felony or of violating any law of this
state or local ordinance relating to sex offenses and/or audit uses; and/or
      (3)   Who is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the
license is issued.
   (F)   Places ineligible for license.
      (1)   No license shall be granted for adult uses on any premises where a
licensee has been convicted of a violation of this chapter, or where any
license hereunder has been revoked for cause, until 1 year has elapsed after
the conviction or revocation.
      (2)   Except for uses lawfully existing at the time of adoption of this
chapter, no license shall be granted for any adult use which is not in
compliance with the city's Zoning Regulations,
Chapter 159.
   (G)   Nonconforming uses. Any adult use existing on the effective date of
the adoption of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
provisions:
      (1)   No such adult use shall be expanded or enlarged except in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   A nonconforming adult use shall be required to apply for and
receive an adult use license. No public hearing shall be required prior to the
issuance of the license for the nonconforming adult use.
(Ord. 7510, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 115.04 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE, GENERALLY.
   (A)   Every license shall be granted subject to the conditions in the
following divisions and all other provisions of this chapter, and of any
applicable sections of the city code or state law.
   (B)   All licensed premises shall have the license posted in a conspicuous
place at all times.
   (C)   In the case of an adult use–principal, no minor shall be permitted on
the licensed premises unless accompanied by his or her parent or legal
guardian.
   (D)   Any designated inspection officer or law enforcement officer of the
city shall have the unqualified right to enter, inspect, and search the
premises of a licensee during business hours.
   (E)   Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of his place of
business and shall maintain conditions of this order.
(Ord. 7510, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 115.05 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE, ADULT USE–PRINCIPAL.
   Adult use–principal businesses shall be permitted in the RB Zoning District
subject to the issuance of a special use permit and subject to the following
requirements:
   (A)   An adult use–principal business shall not be allowed within 1,000 feet
of another existing adult use measured in a straight line from the buildings.
   (B)   An adult use–principal business shall not be located within 1,000 feet
measured in a straight line from existing school or place of worship located in
the city.
   (C)   An adult use–principal business shall not sell or dispense
nonintoxicating or intoxicating liquors nor shall it be located in a building
which contains a business that sells or dispenses nonintoxicating or
intoxicating liquors.
   (D)   No adult use–principal business entertainment shall engage in any
activity or conduct or permit any other person to engage in any activity or
conduct in or about the adult use establishment which is prohibited by any
ordinance of the City of Lakeland, the laws of the State of Minnesota, or the
United States of America. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as
authorizing or permitting conduct which is prohibited or regulated by other
statutes or ordinances, including but not limited to statutes or ordinances
prohibiting the exhibition, sale, or distribution of obscene material
generally, or the exhibition, sale, or distribution of specified materials to
minors.
   (E)   No adult use–principal business shall be conducted in any manner that
permits the perception or observation from any property not approved as an
adult use of any materials depicting, describing, or related to specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas by any visual or auditory
media, including display, declaration, sign, show window, sound transmission,
or other means.
   (F)   All adult use–principal businesses shall prominently display a sign at
the entrance and located within 2 feet of the door-opening device of the adult
use establishment or section of the establishment devoted to adult books or
materials which states:
"This business sells or displays material containing adult themes. Persons
under age 18 years of age shall not enter."
The sign shall have letters at least 3/8-inch in height and no more than 2
inches in height.
   (G)   No person under the age of 18 shall be permitted on the premises of an
adult entertainment establishment. No person under the age of 18 shall be
permitted access to material displayed or offered for sale or rent by an adult
use principal business establishment.
   (H)   Adult use–principal businesses shall not be open between the hours of
1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of Monday through Saturday, nor between 1:
00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. noon on Sunday.
(Ord. 7510, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 115.06 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE, ADULT USE–ACCESSORY.
   Adult use–accessory licenses may be issued to businesses located in the RB
Zoning Districts subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   The adult use–accessory shall comprise no more than 10% of the floor
area of the establishment in which it is located.
   (B)   Display areas for movie rentals or other similar products shall be
restricted from general view and shall be located within a separate room, the
access of which is in clear view and under the control of the person
responsible for the operation.
   (C)   Magazines and publications or other similar products classified or
qualified as adult uses shall not be accessible to minors and shall be covered
with a wrapper or other means to prevent display of any materials other than
the publication title.
   (D)   Adult use–accessory shall be prohibited from both internal and
external advertising and singing of adult materials and products.
(Ord. 7510, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 115.07 REVOCATION, SUSPENSION, OR NONRENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The license may be revoked, suspended, or not renewed by the City
Council upon recommendation of the city staff by showing that the licensee, its
owners, managers, employees, agents, or any other interested parties have
engaged in any of the following conduct:
      (1)   Fraud, deception, or misrepresentation in connection with the
securing of the license;
      (2)   Habitual drunkenness or intemperance in the use of drugs, including
but not limited to the use of drugs defined in M.S. § 618.01, as it may be
amended from time to time, barbiturates, hallucinogenic drugs, amphetamines,
benzedrine, dexedrine or other sedatives, depressants, stimulants, or
tranquilizers;
      (3)   Engaging in conduct involving moral turpitude or permitting or
allowing others within their employ or agency to engage in conduct involving
moral turpitude, or failing to prevent agents, officers, or employees from
engaging in conduct involving moral turpitude;
      (4)   Failure to fully comply with any requirements of the ordinances of
the city regarding sanitary and safety conditions, zoning requirements,
Building Code requirements or ordinances, the violation of which involves moral
turpitude, or failure to comply fully with any requirements of this chapter; or
      (5)   Conviction of an offense involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The certificate holder may appeal the suspension, revocation, or
nonrenewal to the City Council. The Council shall consider the appeal at a
regularly scheduled public hearing on or after 10 days from service of the
notice of appeal to the City Administrator. At the conclusion of the hearing,
the Council may order:
      (1)   That the revocation, suspension, or nonrenewal be affirmed;
      (2)   That the revocation, suspension, or nonrenewal be lifted and that
the certificate be returned to the certificate holder; or
      (3)   The City Council may base either suspension or issuance of the
certificate upon any additional terms, conditions, and stipulations which it
may, in its sole discretion, impose.
(Ord. 7510, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not more than the maximum
penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law, as set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 7510, passed 6-19-2007)
CHAPTER 116: LICENSING AND REGULATION OF LEGAL CHARITABLE GAMBLING
Section
   
116.01   Purpose and intent
   
116.02   Gambling a privilege
   
116.03   Definitions
   
116.04   State law adopted
   
116.05   Non-licensed gambling
   
116.06   Local approval of state licensed organizations
   
116.07   Obligations of state-licensed organizations
   
116.08   Use of proceeds of charitable gambling
   
116.09   Premises
   
116.10   Leased premises
   
116.11   Minimum age
   
116.12   Hours of operation
   
116.13   Employees
   
116.14   Authorized persons
   
116.15   Financial reports
   
116.16   Fees and licenses
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This chapter is enacted to promote the health, safety and general welfare of
the inhabitants of the City by closely regulating the conduct of lawful
gambling.
(Ord. 7521, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 116.02 GAMBLING A PRIVILEGE.
   The City Council finds that lawful gambling is a nuisance-prone activity
and, as such, is subject to restrictive regulation. The Council further finds
and declares that the ability to conduct lawful gambling and participate in
lawful gambling is a privilege rather than a right.
(Ord. 7521, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 116.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE MEMBER. A member who has paid all his dues to the organization and
has been a member of the organization for at least six months.
   BINGO. A game where each player has a card or board, for which a
consideration has been paid, containing five horizontal rows of spaces, with
each row, except the center one, containing five figures. The central row has
four figures with the word “free” marked in the center space thereof. BINGO
also includes games, which are as described in this paragraph, except for the
use of cards, where the figures are not preprinted, but are filled in by the
players. A player wins a game of bingo by completing a preannounced combination
of spaces or, in the absence of a preannouncement of a combination of spaces,
any combination of five spaces in a row, either vertical, horizontal or
diagonal.
   BINGO OCCASION. A single gathering or session at which a series of one or
more successive bingo games is played.
   CHECKER. A person who records the number of bingo cards purchased and played
during each game and records the prizes awarded to the recorded cards, but does
not collect the payment for the cards.
   EXEMPT ORGANIZATION. Any fraternal, religious, veterans, or other nonprofit
organization conducting not more than one lawful charitable gaming event each
calendar year. Each charitable gaming event shall be limited to five or less
consecutive days in duration.
   EXEMPT PERMIT. That permit which is required to be obtained by every exempt
organization seeking to conduct local charitable gaming within the corporate
limits of the city.
   GAMBLING EQUIPMENT. Bingo cards and devices for selecting bingo numbers,
pull-tabs, ticket jars, paddlewheels, and tipboards.
   GAMBLING MANAGER. A person who has paid all dues to an organization and has
been a member of the organization for at least two years and has been
designated by the organization to supervise lawful gambling conducted by it.
   LAWFUL GAMBLING. The operation, conduct or sale of bingo, raffles,
paddlewheels, tipboards and pull-tabs.
   LAWFUL PURPOSE. As defined by M.S. § 349.12, Subd. 25.
   LOCAL TRADE AREA. Includes each city and township located within a 25-mile
radius of the City of Lakeland.
   ORGANIZATION. Any fraternal, religious, veterans, or other nonprofit
organization.
   PADDLEWHEEL. A wheel marked off into sections containing one or more
numbers, and which, after being turned or spun, uses a pointer or marker to
indicate winning chances.
   PROFIT. The gross receipts collected from lawful gambling, less reasonable
sums necessarily and actually expended for prizes, and taxes imposed by this
chapter.
   PULL-TAB. A single folded or banded ticket or a card with a face covered to
conceal one or more numbers or symbols, where one or more of each set of
tickets or cards has been designated in advance as a winner. PULL-TAB includes
a ticket sold in a gambling device known as a ticket jar.
   RAFFLE. A game in which a participant buys a ticket for a chance at a prize
with the winner determined by a random drawing to take place at a location and
date printed upon the ticket.
   TIPBOARD. A board, placard or other device marked off in a grid or columns,
in which each section contains a hidden number or numbers, or other symbol
which determines the winning changes.
(Ord. 7521, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 116.04 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 349, as now or hereafter amended, relating to the
definition of terms, licensing and restrictions of lawful gambling are adopted
and made a part of this section as if set out in full.
(Ord. 7521, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 116.05 NON-LICENSED GAMBLING.
   This chapter shall not regulate the conduct of non-licensed gambling as
defined by M.S. Ch. 349.
(Ord. 7521, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 116.06 LOCAL APPROVAL OF STATE LICENSED ORGANIZATIONS.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 349.213, the charitable gambling control board for the
state must notify the City Council before issuing or renewing an organization
license for lawful gambling at the state level for those organizations whose
premises are located within the city. If the City Council adopts a resolution
disapproving the state license and so informs the board within 30 days of such
notice, the license may not be issued or renewed.
(Ord. 7521, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 116.07 OBLIGATIONS OF STATE-LICENSED ORGANIZATIONS.
   The applicant shall provide to the City Clerk copies of all information
which such organization provides to the charitable gambling control board. Such
copies shall be provided to the City Clerk within seven days after the state-
licensed organization sends such information to the state. Failure of the
applicant to provide such copies shall constitute a basis for disapproval of
the permit or renewal by the City Council.
(Ord. 7521, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 116.08 USE OF PROCEEDS OF CHARITABLE GAMBLING.
   (A) The organization licensed to conduct lawful gambling in the city shall
contribute 10% of the net profits it derives from the lawful gambling activity
in the city to a fund regulated by the city for disbursement of such
contributions for lawful purposes as defined by M.S. § 349.12, Subd. 25. In
addition, the organization licensed to conduct lawful gambling in the city
shall expend a minimum of 70% of the net proceeds it derives from the lawful
gambling activity conducted in the city for lawful purposes as defined by M.S.
§ 349.12, Subd. 25, that will directly benefit the citizens living in Lakeland
and/or the local trade area. Such expenditures must occur within the same or
following fiscal year that such proceeds are received by the organization
conducting the lawful gambling in the city. For purposes of this section, net
proceeds shall be computed as follows: gross receipts from lawful gambling
activity conducted in the city less reasonable sums necessarily and actually
expended to conduct lawful gambling activities in the city for the following
items:
      (1)   Prizes;
      (2)   Gambling supplies and equipment, which shall be defined as those
expenses authorized by the charitable gambling board in adopted rules (see
Minn. Rules Ch. 7861);
      (3)   Rent;
      (4)   Utilities used during gambling occasions;
      (5)   Compensation paid to members for conducting lawful gambling
activities;
      (6)   State and/or federal taxes; and
      (7)   Maintenance of devices used in lawful gambling.
   (B)   The requirements of division (A) of this section shall not apply to
exempt organizations having first obtained an exempt permit from the city.
(Ord. 7521, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 116.09 PREMISES.
   (A)   The use of or sale of lawful gambling supplies and equipment described
as pull-tabs, paddlewheels and tipboards shall be allowed on the premises owned
or leased by eligible organizations, as defined in §
116.03.
   (B)   In the event the premises are leased by the eligible organization, the
specific area leased and within which the lawful gambling activity is to take
place shall be clearly described in a written lease agreement and shall further
be designated in a drawing attached to the lease and made a part thereof.
(Ord. 7521, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 116.10 LEASED PREMISES.
   In leased locations authorized by this chapter, the lawful gambling activity
and the sale of pull-tabs, tipboards and the operation of paddlewheels shall
take place in a designated area of the leased premises, which area shall be
separate from the counter, bar or service area. No sale of on-sale or off-sale
liquor shall be allowed within the leased area. Locations authorized by this
section, which are owned by the licensed organization, need not designate such
a location within the premises.
(Ord. 7521, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 116.11 MINIMUM AGE.
   Only those persons who have reached the age at which they are allowed to
consume intoxicating liquor by Minnesota Statutes shall be allowed to
participate in the lawful gambling activity or shall be employed by the
organization issued the lawful gambling license for the operation, conduct or
sale of bingo, raffles, paddlewheels, tipboards and pull-tabs.
(Ord. 7521, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 116.12 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The use or sale of lawful gambling supplies and equipment, including
pull-tabs, paddlewheels and tipboards, shall be allowed on premises owned or
leased by those organizations eligible for a lawful gambling license, pursuant
to hereto, only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, the conduct of bingo and
sale of raffle tickets shall be allowed on Sundays and legal holidays when not
prohibited by M.S. Ch. 349 and any amendments thereto.
(Ord. 7521, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 116.13 EMPLOYEES.
   Compensation to persons who participate in the conduct of lawful gambling
may be paid only to active members of the conducting organization or its
auxiliary, or to the spouse or the surviving spouse of an active member, or to
employees hired by the licensed organization.
(Ord. 7521, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 116.14 AUTHORIZED PERSONS.
   Only an active member, or the spouse or surviving spouse, or active member
of the licensed organization, or an employee hired by the licensed organization
shall be involved in the operation, conduct or sale of lawful gambling
activities in the city. The owner or employee of an establishment, having a
liquor license issued by the city which is leased by the organization
conducting a lawful gambling activity, may not be involved in the operation,
conduct or sale of lawful gambling activities while he or she is then on duty
with the lessor.
(Ord. 7521, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 116.15 FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   Each organization which is licensed to conduct lawful gambling within the
city shall provide the City Clerk with a copy of all financial reports
submitted to the state charitable gambling control board on a quarterly basis
if there is any charitable gambling by the organization within the reporting
period.
(Ord. 7521, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 116.16 FEES AND LICENSES.
   To the extent allowed by state law, the City Council may set a licensing fee
for the conduct of lawful gambling within the city, to include fees for
application, processing of any application, including whatever amounts are
deemed appropriate to defray the cost of investigation of the proposed
applicant by the City Council, to make a determination of the propriety of
granting the permit. Fees may be amended from time to time and enumerated in
the Master Fee Schedule adopted annually by the City Council and incorporated
into the code as §
33.01. The City Clerk shall prepare an annual resolution and shall include
verification that the applicant agrees to abide by all local ordinances
concerning the conduct of licensed lawful gambling.
(Ord. 7521, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall do or commit any act that is forbidden by the
provisions of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall
by punished not more than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed
by state law, as set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 7521, passed 5-18-2010)
CHAPTER 117: CANNABIS REGULATIONS
Section
   
117.01   Findings and purpose
   
117.02   Authority and jurisdiction
   
117.03   Severability
   
117.04   Enforcement
   
117.05   Definitions
   
117.06   Use in public places
   
117.07   Cannabis business registration and application procedure
   
117.08   Local government as a cannabis retailer
   
117.09   Requirements for cannabis retail businesses
   
117.10   Requirements for cannabis cultivation, products manufacturing and
wholesale
   
117.11   Temporary cannabis events
§ 117.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   The City of Lakeland makes the following legislative findings:
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of M.S.
Chapter 342, which authorizes the City of Lakeland to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare of Lakeland residents by regulating cannabis
businesses within the legal boundaries of Lakeland.
   (B)   The City of Lakeland finds and concludes that the proposed provisions
are appropriate and lawful land use regulations for Lakeland, that the proposed
amendments will promote the community's interest in reasonable stability in
zoning for now and in the future, and that the proposed provisions are in the
public interest and for the public good.
   (C)   The City Council observes that there are a number of unique factors
that exist in Lakeland which make it desirable to endeavor to ensure that
cannabis businesses are integrated into the city in a reasonable way.
      (1)   Lakeland is along a major interstate corridor and is bounded,
essentially, on its east by the State of Wisconsin which, at this time, does
not allow cannabis uses.
      (2)   Lakeland's commercial and retail corridor is long and narrow, not
diffuse and broad through various parts of the city, and notable for its
diversity of generally small office and/or retail uses and most structures for
those uses either immediately abut residential properties or are in close
proximity to them.
      (3)   There are few buffers or opportunities for buffering.
      (4)   These features and others could lead to a concentration of cannabis
businesses, impacts on neighboring residential properties, an inordinate
traffic to and for cannabis products from interstate travelers or the creation
of destination and large-scale sellers, warehousing and other impacts which
would be undesirable.
      (5)   Accordingly, the city emphasizes and hereby encourages the
development of cannabis businesses which are integrated into the city
comparable to other small users, particularly office users and retailers.
(Ord. 2024-28, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 117.02 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The City of Lakeland has the authority to adopt this chapter pursuant
to:
      (1)   M.S. § 342.13(c), regarding the authority of a local unit of
government to adopt reasonable restrictions of the time, place, and manner of
the operation of a cannabis business provided that such restrictions do not
prohibit the establishment or operation of cannabis businesses.
      (2)   M.S. § 342.22, regarding the local registration and enforcement
requirements of state-licensed cannabis retail businesses and lower-potency
hemp edible retail businesses.
      (3)   M.S. § 152.0263, Subd. 5, regarding the use of cannabis in public
places.
      (4)   M.S.§ 462.357, regarding the authority of a local authority to
adopt zoning ordinances.
   (B)   This chapter shall be applicable within the legal boundaries of the
City of Lakeland.
(Ord. 2024-28, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 117.03 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 2024-28, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 117.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City of Lakeland Zoning Administrator is responsible for the
administration of this chapter. Enforcement of this chapter is subject to the
city's enforcement policy and procedures. Any violation of the provisions of
this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements constitutes a
misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law. Violations of this chapter can
occur regardless of whether or not a permit is required for a regulated
activity listed in this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-28, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 117.05 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise noted in this section, words and phrases contained in M.S.
§ 342.01 and the rules promulgated pursuant to any of these acts, shall have
the same meanings in this chapter.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS. Any of the following commercial cannabis operations:
      (1)   Cannabis microbusiness;
      (2)   Cannabis mezzobusiness;
      (3)   Cannabis cultivator;
      (4)   Cannabis manufacturer;
      (5)   Cannabis retailer;
      (6)   Cannabis wholesaler;
      (7)   Cannabis transporter;
      (8)   Cannabis testing facility;
      (9)   Cannabis event organizer;
      (10)   Cannabis delivery service;
      (11)   Lower-potency hemp edible manufacturing;
      (12)   Lower-potency hemp edible retailer; or
      (13)   Medical cannabis combination business.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION. Any activity involving the planting, growing,
harvesting, drying, curing, grading, or trimming of cannabis plants, cannabis
flower, hemp plants, or hemp plant parts.
   CANNABIS PLANT. All parts of the plant of the genus Cannabis that is growing
or has not been harvested and has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration
of more than 0.3% on a dry-weight basis.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT. Any product that involves any of the following:
      (1)   Cannabis concentrate;
      (2)   Infusion with cannabinoids, including but not limited to
tetrahydrocannabinol, extracted or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
flower; or
      (3)   Any other product that contains cannabis concentrate, including
edible cannabis products.
   CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES. A retail location and the retail location(s) of
a mezzobusiness with a retail operations endorsement, microbusinesses with a
retail operations endorsement, and medical combination businesses operating a
retail location.
   EDIBLE CANNABIS PRODUCT. Any product that is intended to be eaten or
consumed as a beverage by humans; contains a cannabinoid other than an
artificially derived cannabinoid in combination with food ingredients; is not a
drug; and is a type of product approved for sale by the Office of Cannabis
Management, or is substantially similar to a product approved by the office,
including but not limited to products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages,
candy, and baked goods. EDIBLE CANNABIS PRODUCT does not include lower-potency
hemp edibles.
   HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS. 
      (1)   Any product intended for human or animal consumption, does not
contain cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate, and:
         (a)   Contains or consists of hemp plant parts; or
         (b)   Contains hemp concentrate or artificially derived cannabinoids
in combination with other ingredients.
      (2)   HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS do not include artificially derived
cannabinoids, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived topical products, hemp
fiber products, or hemp grain.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. As defined under M.S. § 342.01, Subd. 50, any
product that:
      (1)   Is intended to be eaten or consumed as a beverage by humans;
      (2)   Contains hemp concentrate or an artificially derived cannabinoid,
in combination with food ingredients;
      (3)   Is not a drug;
      (4)   Consists of servings that contain no more than 5 milligrams of
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol, 25 milligrams of cannabidiol, 25 milligrams of
cannabigerol, or any combination of those cannabinoids that does not exceed the
identified amounts;
      (5)   Does not contain more than a combined total of 0.5 milligrams of
all other cannabinoids per serving;
      (6)   Does not contain an artificially derived cannabinoid other than
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol;
      (7)   Does not contain a cannabinoid derived from cannabis plants or
cannabis flower; and
      (8)   Is a type of product approved for sale by the office or is
substantially similar to a product approved by the office, including but not
limited to products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages, candy, and baked
goods.
   OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management,
referred  to as “OCM” in this chapter.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed, indoor area used by the general public,
including, but not limited to, restaurants; bars; and other food or liquor
establishments; retail stores and other commercial establishments; educational
facilities other than public schools; hospitals; nursing homes; auditoriums;
arenas; meeting rooms; and common areas of rental apartment buildings.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property, real and personal, that is owned, managed, or
controlled by the City of Lakeland, including, but not limited to: city
buildings and all the land thereon, parking lots, parks, pathways and trails,
and city right-of-way consisting of both the traveled portion and the abutting
boulevard, sidewalks and trails, playgrounds and any city personal property,
such as motor vehicles, city equipment, and the like.
   RETAIL REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by the City of Lakeland
to a state- licensed cannabis retail business.
   STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota's Office
of Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
   TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENT. An event lasting no more than 4 days at which
cannabis products, cannabis flower, lower-potency hemp edibles, and hemp-
derived consumer products may be  sold and for which the organizer has a
cannabis event organizer license issued by the Office of Cannabis Management.
(Ord. 2024-28, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 117.06 USE IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency
hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products within public property or in a
public place as defined by this chapter.
   (B)   All smoking, vaping, and cannabis consumption is also prohibited
within 25 feet of all entrances, exits, windows and ventilation intakes of
public places.
(Ord. 2024-28, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 117.07 CANNABIS BUSINESS REGISTRATION AND APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application fee. The City of Lakeland shall not charge an application
fee.
   (B)   Compliance checks prior to retail registration. Prior to issuance of a
cannabis business registration, the City of Lakeland shall conduct a
preliminary compliance check to ensure compliance with local ordinances.
      (1)   Pursuant to M.S. Chapter 342, within 30 days of receiving a copy of
a state license application from OCM, the City of Lakeland shall certify on a
form provided by OCM whether a proposed cannabis business complies with local
zoning ordinances and, if applicable, whether the proposed business complies
with the state fire code and building code.
      (2)   No individual or entity may operate a state-licensed cannabis
business — including manufacturing, cultivation, and other commercial uses —
within the City of Lakeland without first registering with the city.
      (3)   Any state-licensed cannabis retail business that sells to a
customer or patient without valid registration shall incur a civil penalty of
up to $2,000 for each violation.
   (C)   Initial retail registration fee. A registration fee, as established in
the City of Lakeland's fee schedule, shall be charged to applicants seeking to
establish a cannabis business.
      (1)   An initial registration fee shall not exceed $500 or half the
amount of an initial state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, whichever is less.
The initial registration fee shall include the initial registration fee and the
first annual renewal fee.
      (2)   A medical combination business operating an adult-use retail
location may only be charged a single registration fee, not to exceed the
lesser of a single retail registration fee, defined under this section, of the
adult-use retail business.
   (D)   Registration application submittal. The City of Lakeland shall issue a
registration to a state-licensed cannabis business that adheres to the
requirements of M.S. § 342.22.
      (1)   An applicant for a registration shall fill out an application form,
as provided by the City of Lakeland. Said form shall include, but is not
limited to:
         (a)   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
         (b)   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
         (c)   The address and parcel ID for the property which the
registration is sought; and
         (d)   Signature of the applicant.
      (2)   The applicant shall include with the form:
         (a)   The registration fee as required in the city's fee schedule;
         (b)   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM license
preapproval; and
         (c)   A copy of the interim use permit for the proposed use on the
subject property.
      (3)   Once an application is considered complete, the City Clerk shall
inform the applicant as such, process the application fees, and forward the
application to the Zoning Administrator for approval or denial.
      (4)   The application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
   (E)   Registration application approval.
      (1)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not be
approved if the cannabis retail business would exceed the maximum number of
registered cannabis retail businesses permitted under §
117.07(I).
      (2)   A state-licensed cannabis business registration application shall
not be approved or renewed if the applicant is unable to meet the requirements
of this chapter.
      (3)   A state-licensed cannabis business registration application that
meets the requirements of this chapter shall be approved.
   (F)   Basis for denial of registration.
      (1)   An initial application for registration or a renewal of
registration with the city will be denied if:
         (a)   The applicant is under 21 years of age;
         (b)   The applicant does not have a valid license, pre-approved
license, or retail endorsement from OCM;
         (c)   The applicant fails to provide any of the information required
on the licensing application or provides false or misleading information;
         (d)   The applicant is prohibited by state, or local law, ordinance,
or other regulation from holding a registration or the registration is
otherwise prohibited; or
         (e)   The applicant fails a pre-application inspection by the City of
Lakeland as provided under M.S. § 342.22, Subd. 3(b), as amended from time to
time.
      (2)   If a registration is mistakenly issued or renewed to any person, it
will be revoked upon the discovery of ineligibility for registration under this
chapter or state or other local law, ordinance or other regulation. Any
revocation will comply with the requirements of M.S. § 342.22, Subd. 5, as
amended from time to time.
   (G)   Renewal of registration. A state-licensed cannabis business shall
apply to renew registration on a form established by the City of Lakeland.
      (1)   The issuance of a registration is a privilege and does not entitle
the registration holder to an automatic renewal of the registration.
      (2)   The City of Lakeland shall renew an annual registration of a state-
licensed cannabis business at the same time OCM renews the cannabis business's
license.
      (3)   (a)   Any renewal registration fee imposed by the City of Lakeland
shall be charged at the time of the second renewal and each subsequent renewal
thereafter.
         (b)   A renewal registration fee shall not exceed $1,000 or half the
amount of a renewal state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, whichever is less.
      (4)   A cannabis registration issued under this section shall not be
transferred.
   (H)   Suspension of registration. The City of Lakeland may suspend a
cannabis business's registration if it violates this code of ordinances or
poses an immediate threat to the health or safety of the public. The City of
Lakeland shall immediately notify the cannabis business in writing the grounds
for the suspension.
      (1)   The City of Lakeland shall immediately notify the OCM in writing
the grounds for the suspension. OCM will provide the city and cannabis business
a response to the complaint within 7 calendar days and perform any necessary
inspections within 30 calendar days.
      (2)   The suspension of a cannabis business registration may be for up to
30 calendar days, unless OCM suspends the license for a longer period. The
business may not make sales to customers if their registration is suspended.
         (a)   The City of Lakeland may reinstate a registration if it
determines that the violations have been resolved.
         (b)   The City of Lakeland shall reinstate a registration if OCM
determines that the violation(s) have been resolved.
      (3)   Subject to M.S. § 342.22, Subd. 5(e), the City of Lakeland may
impose a civil penalty, as specified in the fee schedule, for registration
violations, not to exceed $2,000.
   (I)   Limiting of registrations. The City of Lakeland shall limit the number
of active cannabis retail businesses registered to no more than 1 per 12,500
residents within the City of Lakeland (i.e., 1 permit as of the date of
adoption of this chapter and thereafter).
      (1)   When the maximum number of registrations has been issued, the city
may place persons seeking registration on a waiting list and allow them to
apply on a first-come, first-served basis, as registrations are not renewed or
are revoked.
      (2)   A new applicant who has purchased a business location with a valid
registration held by a different owner will be entitled to first priority,
provided the new applicant meets all other application requirements in
accordance with this section.
(Ord. 2024-28, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 117.08 LOCAL GOVERNMENT AS A CANNABIS RETAILER.
   (A)   The City of Lakeland may establish, own, and operate 1 municipal
cannabis retail business subject to the restrictions in this chapter.
   (B)   The municipal cannabis retail store shall not be included in any
limitation of the number of registered cannabis retail businesses under §
117.07(I).
   (C)   The City of Lakeland shall be subject to all same rental license
requirements and procedures applicable to all other applicants.
(Ord. 2024-28, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 117.09 REQUIREMENTS FOR CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES.
   Cannabis retail businesses, including lower-potency hemp retailers and
manufacturing businesses with a retail endorsement, shall be permitted in the
RB Zoning District subject to the issuance of an interim use permit.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary or otherwise stated in the
zoning code, the requirements for cannabis retail businesses are subject to the
restrictions of this chapter. In the event of any conflict, the more
restrictive provisions shall apply.
   (B)   Cannabis retail operations shall be subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   Designation of roadway boundaries for cannabis retailer
establishments. Cannabis retailers shall be prohibited everywhere in the City
of Lakeland except by interim use permit in the RB-zoned parcels as follows:
Lying west of St. Croix Trl, lying south of 2nd St N, lying north of the 1,000-
foot boundary surrounding Afton-Lakeland Elementary School as established in §
117.09(B)(3).
      (2)   Hours of operation. The hours of operation for cannabis retail
businesses shall be between 10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. daily.
      (3)   Buffer requirements. Cannabis retail businesses shall not be
allowed within the following distance buffers:
         (a)   Five hundred feet from any cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible
use, measured by a line from the nearest point on the property boundary line of
the property on which the existing business is located to the nearest property
boundary line of the property on which a business is proposed to be located.
         (b)   One thousand feet from a school.
         (c)   Five hundred feet of a daycare, residential treatment facility,
or attraction within a public park that is regularly used by minors (including
a playground or athletic field).
         (d)   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 1(e), nothing in this section
shall prohibit an active cannabis business or a cannabis business seeking
registration from continuing operation at the same site if any of the above
uses moves within the minimum buffer zone.
      (4)   Security. Cannabis retail businesses implement sufficient security
measures to deter and prevent the unauthorized entrance into areas containing
cannabis or cannabis products, to deter and prevent the theft of cannabis or
cannabis products at the commercial cannabis activity and to ensure emergency
access in accordance with applicable fire code standards. Guard dogs shall not
be used at the commercial cannabis activity as a security measure. Security
measures shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   A plan to prevent individuals from loitering on the lot if they
are not engaging in activity expressly related to the commercial cannabis
activity.
         (b)   Twenty-four-hour emergency contact information for the owner or
an on-site employee which shall be provided to the city.
         (c)   A professionally installed, maintained, and monitored alarm
system.
         (d)   All cannabis and cannabis products shall be stored in a secured
and locked structure and in a secured and locked safe room, safe, or vault, and
in a manner as to prevent diversion, theft, and loss.
         (e)   Twenty-four-hour security surveillance cameras to monitor all
entrances and exits to a commercial cannabis activity, all interior spaces
within the commercial cannabis activity that are open and accessible to the
public, and all interior spaces where cannabis, cash or currency is being
stored for any period of time on a regular basis. The permittee for a
commercial cannabis activity shall be responsible for ensuring that the
security surveillance camera's footage is accessible. Video recordings shall be
maintained for a minimum of 90 days, and shall be made available to the city
upon request.
         (f)   Sensors shall be installed to detect entry and exit from all
secure areas.
         (g)   Commercial cannabis activity shall cooperate with the city and,
upon reasonable notice to the commercial cannabis activity, allow the city to
inspect or audit the effectiveness of the security plan for the commercial
cannabis activity.
         (h)   Cannabis or cannabis products shall not be stored outside at any
time.
         (i)   A cannabis business shall notify the Washington County Sheriff’s
Department within 24 hours after discovering any of the following:
            1.   Significant discrepancies identified during inventory.
            2.   Diversion, theft, loss, or any criminal activity involving the
cannabis business or any agent or employee of the cannabis business.
            3.   The loss or unauthorized alteration of records related to
cannabis, registering qualifying patients, primary caregivers, or employees or
agents of the cannabis business.
      (5)   Minimum required off-street parking. Cannabis businesses and hemp
businesses shall meet the minimum off-street parking requirements for the
appropriate use as set forth elsewhere in this code.
      (6)   Signage. Pursuant to M.S. § 342.64, cannabis retailers shall comply
with the following advertising requirements:
         (a)   Cannabis businesses, hemp businesses, and other persons shall
not publish or cause to be published an advertisement for a cannabis business,
a hemp business, cannabis flower, a cannabis product, a lower-potency hemp
edible, or a hemp-derived consumer product in a manner that:
            1.   Contains false or misleading statements;
            2.   Contains unverified claims about the health or therapeutic
benefits or effects of consuming cannabis flower, a cannabis product, a lower-
potency hemp edible, or a hemp-derived consumer product;
            3.   Promotes the overconsumption of cannabis flower, a cannabis
product, a lower-potency hemp edible, or a hemp-derived consumer product;
            4.   Depicts a person under 21 years of age consuming cannabis
flower, a cannabis product, a lower-potency hemp edible, or a hemp-derived
consumer product;
            5.   Includes an image designed or likely to appeal to individuals
under 21 years of age, including cartoons, toys, animals, or children, or any
other likeness to images, characters, or phrases that is designed to be
appealing to individuals under 21 years of age or encourage consumption by
individuals under 21 years of age;
            6.   Contains an image of alcohol or a person or persons consuming
alcohol; or
            7.   Does not contain a warning as specified by the office
regarding impairment and health risks.
         (b)   Prohibited signs.
            1.   Blinking, moving, and flashing signs that are visible from the
exterior of the building.
            2.   On- and off-site billboards.
            3.   Signs that do not comply with the Lakeland sign ordinance and
the provisions of this section, including banner and temporary signs.
         (c)   Retailers may erect up to 2 fixed outdoor signs on the exterior
of the building or property of the cannabis business or hemp business in
accordance with Lakeland's sign ordinance.
         (d)   Retailers shall not publish or cause to be published an
advertisement for a cannabis business, a hemp business, cannabis flower, a
cannabis product, a lower-potency hemp edible, or a hemp-derived consumer
product in any print publication or on radio, television, or any other medium
if 30% or more of the audience of that medium is reasonably expected to be
individuals who are under 21 years of age, as determined by reliable, current
audience composition data.
      (7)   Location changes. If a state-licensed cannabis retail business
seeks to move to a new location still within the legal boundaries of the City
of Lakeland, it shall notify the city of the proposed location change through
an interim use permit amendment.
      (8)   Prohibited sales and other restrictions. In addition to the
prohibitions and restrictions set forth under M.S. §§ 342.46, Subd. 7 and
342.27, Subd. 12, no registered cannabis retailer, lower-potency hemp edible
retailer, or medical cannabis combination business shall sell or offer to sell
any approved product or medical cannabinoid product:
         (a)   By means of any type of vending machine;
         (b)   By means of self-service display;
            1.   All approved products and medical cannabinoid products,
including lower-potency hemp beverages, must be stored in a locked case behind
the sales counter, in a storage unit, or in another area not freely accessible
by the general public.
            2.   This does not prohibit registered cannabis retailers from
displaying single product samples pursuant to M.S. § 342.27, Subd. 5.
         (c)   At a moveable place of business;
            1.   Only fixed-location businesses may sell approved products and
medical cannabinoid products.
            2.   Transportation and delivery of off-sale cannabis products
within the City of Lakeland is permitted by licensed entities only.
         (d)   That does not comply with the packaging and labeling required
under M.S. §§ 342.62 and 342.63, as may be amended from time to time;
         (e)   By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner
or form prohibited by state or other local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation.
      (9)   Legal age. No person shall sell any approved product to any person
under the age of 21. Businesses licensed or endorsed to sell medical
cannabinoid products may sell medical cannabinoid products to persons under age
21 who are enrolled in the medical registry program pursuant to M.S. § 342.24,
Subd. 1.
      (10)   Compliance checks. All licensed premises shall be open to
inspection by the Washington County Sheriff's Department, Lower St. Croix
Valley Fire Department, or other authorized city official during regular
business hours. The City of Lakeland shall complete, at minimum, 1 unannounced
compliance check per calendar year of every cannabis business to assess if the
business meets age verification requirements, as required under M.S. §§ 342.22,
Subd. 4(b) and 342.24.
         (a)   Age verification compliance checks shall involve persons at
least 17 years of age but under the age of 21 who, with the prior written
consent of a parent or guardian if the person is under the age of 18, attempt
to purchase adult-use cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products under the direct
supervision of a law enforcement officer or an employee of the local unit of
government.
         (b)   Any failures under this section must be reported to OCM.
      (11)   Lower-potency hemp edibles. Retail sales of lower-potency
beverages at on-sale intoxicating liquor establishments or off-sale exclusive
liquor stores with a valid city registration and state license are permitted in
the RB District during the hours of operation associated with the intoxicating
liquor establishment. These establishments are not subject to the buffers as
established in §
117.09(B)(3).
(Ord. 2024-28, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 117.10 REQUIREMENTS FOR CANNABIS CULTIVATION, PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING AND
WHOLESALE
   (A)   Indoor cannabis cultivation (for commercial purposes), cannabis and
hemp products manufacturing, and wholesale uses shall be permitted in the RB
Zoning District subject to the issuance of an interim use permit.
      (1)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary or otherwise stated in the
zoning code, the requirements for commercial cannabis cultivation, products
manufacturing, and wholesale are subject to the restrictions of this section.
In the event of any conflict, the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
      (2)   Outdoor cannabis cultivation (for commercial purposes) is
prohibited in all districts.
   (B)   Indoor cannabis cultivation (for commercial purposes), cannabis and
hemp products manufacturing, and wholesale uses shall be subject to, without
limitation, the following regulations and such others as are reasonably
necessary to protect the city and neighboring properties from impacts from
light, noise, traffic, odor, or excessive hours of operation and other impacts:
      (1)   Designation of roadway boundaries for cannabis establishments.
Cannabis cultivation, products manufacturing, and wholesale uses shall be
prohibited everywhere in the City of Lakeland except by interim use permit in
the RB-zoned parcels as follows: Lying west of St. Croix Trl, lying south of
2nd St N, lying north of the 1,000-foot boundary surrounding Afton-Lakeland
Elementary School as established in §
117.09(B)(3).
      (2)   Building opacity. All activities must occur in an enclosed, opaque
space with no visibility from public right-of-way.
      (3)   Odor mitigation. Production and processing facilities shall install
and maintain enhanced ventilation systems designed to prevent detection of
marijuana odor from adjacent properties or the public right-of-way. Such
systems shall include the following features:
         (a)   Installation of activated carbon filters on all exhaust outlets
to the building exterior;
         (b)   Location of exhaust outlets a minimum of 10 feet from the
property line and 10 feet above finished grade; and
         (c)   Maintenance of negative air pressure within the facility; or
         (d)   An alternative odor control system approved by the City Council
based on a report by a mechanical engineer licensed in the State of Minnesota,
demonstrating that the alternative system will control odor equally or better
than the required activated carbon filtration system.
      (4)   Security. Production and processing facilities shall provide
adequate security on the premises, including lighting and alarms, to ensure the
safety of persons and to protect the premises from theft.
         (a)   Security measures shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
            1.   As part of an application for a cannabis use, each applicant
shall prepare and submit a security plan for review and approval by the
Washington County Sheriff’s Department.
            2.   Twenty-four-hour emergency contact information for the owner
or an on-site employee which shall be provided to the city.
            3.   A professionally installed, maintained, and monitored alarm
system.
         (b)   Cannabis or cannabis products shall not be stored outside at any
time.
         (c)   A cannabis business shall notify the Washington County Sheriff's
Department within 24 hours after discovering any of the following:
            l.   Significant discrepancies identified during inventory.
            2.   Diversion, theft, loss, or any criminal activity involving the
cannabis business or any agent or employee of the cannabis business.
            3.   The loss or unauthorized alteration of records related to
cannabis, registering qualifying patients, primary caregivers, or employees or
agents of the cannabis business.
      (5)   Lighting.
            (a)   All lighting associated with the operation shall be downcast,
shielded and/or screened to keep light from emanating off-site or into the sky.
            (b)   The city shall provide notice to the operator upon receiving
any light pollution complaint concerning the cultivation site. Upon receiving
notice, the applicant shall correct the violation as soon as possible and
submit written documentation within 10 calendar days, demonstrating that all
shielding has been repaired, inspected and corrected as necessary. Failure to
correct the violation and provide documentation within this period shall be
grounds for permit cancellation or administrative penalties, pursuant to
Lakeland's complaint policy.
      (6)   Waste management. All fertilizers, chemicals, gases, and hazardous
materials shall be handled in compliance with all applicable local, state and
federal regulations. No fertilizers, chemicals, gases or hazardous materials
shall be allowed to enter an on-site septic system, sanitary sewer or storm
sewer system, nor be released into atmosphere where the facility is located.
Waste materials generated from any facility must be disposed of in accordance
with the operating plan filed as part of a cannabis license/interim use permit
application and consistent with all applicable federal, state and local
regulations.
      (7)   Water usage. Indoor cultivation of commercial cannabis may only be
permitted if sufficient evidence submitted to the city demonstrates:
         (a)   There is adequate water supply in the watershed and water rights
to serve the cultivation site; and
         (b)   The premises where the cultivation of cannabis takes place shall
either be connected to a public water supply or have a city-inspected and
approved private water source. Cultivation of cannabis shall not utilize water
that has been or is illegally diverted from any spring, wetland, stream, creek,
river, lake, underground well, or body of water.
      (8)   Compliance checks. All licensed premises shall be open to
inspection by the Washington County Sheriff's Department, Lower St. Croix
Valley Fire Department, or other authorized city official during regular
business hours.
      (9)   Buffer requirements. Cannabis cultivation/manufacturing uses shall
not be allowed within the following distance buffers:
         (a)   Five hundred feet from any cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible
use, measured by a line from the nearest point on the property boundary line of
the property on which the existing business is located to the nearest property
boundary line of the property on which a business is proposed to be located.
         (b)   One thousand feet from a school.
         (c)   Five hundred feet of a daycare, residential treatment facility,
or attraction within a public park that is regularly used by minors (including
a playground or athletic field).
         (d)   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 1(e), nothing in this section
shall prohibit an active cannabis business or a cannabis business seeking
registration from continuing operation at the same site if any of the above
uses moves within the minimum buffer zone.
   (C)   All cultivators shall comply with all provisions outlined in M.S. §§
342.08 through 342.25 regarding facility security, wastewater and solid waste
disposal, and ventilation and filtration. In the event of any conflict, the
more restrictive provisions shall apply.
(Ord. 2024-28, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 117.11 TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS.
   (A)   Temporary cannabis events shall be permitted in the RB Zoning District
subject to the issuance of a certificate of compliance.
   (B)   Permit application. Applications for a certificate of compliance to
hold a temporary cannabis event must be made in writing and must contain a
statement made upon oath or affirmation that the statements contained therein
are true and correct to the best knowledge of the applicant and must be signed
and sworn to or affirmed by the temporary cannabis event organizer. The
application must contain and disclose the following:
      (1)   Applicant name, address, phone number;
      (2)   A list of all cannabis business, medical cannabis business, or hemp
business licenses, as those terms are defined by M.S. § 342.01, held by the
applicant;
      (3)   Date(s) of proposed temporary cannabis event;
      (4)   Duration of temporary cannabis event, including beginning and
ending times;
      (5)   Address of proposed temporary cannabis event;
      (6)   Name of property owner, if different from applicant;
      (7)   A complete copy of the cannabis event license application,
submitted to the Office of Cannabis Management pursuant to M.S. § 342.39, Subd.
2;
      (8)   Type and description of the temporary cannabis event including:
         (a)   Whether the general public will be permitted to attend, and
estimated number of persons to attend;
         (b)   Any public health plans, including supplying water to the site,
solid waste collection and provision of toilet facilities, if applicable;
         (c)   Any fire prevention and emergency medical services plans, if
applicable;
         (d)   Security plans;
         (e)   The admission fee, donation, or other consideration to be
charged or requested for admission, if applicable;
         (f)   Whether food or alcohol will be served or sold at the event;
         (g)   A detailed description of all public rights-of-way and private
streets for which the applicant requests the city to restrict or alter normal
parking, vehicular traffic or pedestrian traffic patterns, the nature of such
restrictions or alterations, and the basis;
         (h)   A description of any city services, personnel or equipment which
the applicant requests the city to provide, including the applicant's estimate
of the number and type needed, and the basis on which the estimate is made.
However, the city retains sole discretion to determine the number and type of
services required for the event;
         (i)   Whether any sound amplification or public address system will be
used or if there will be any playing of any music or musical instruments; and
         (j)   A statement signed by the applicant agreeing to pay all fees and
meet all other requirements of this section.
   (C)   Permit denial. The city may deny an application for a temporary
cannabis event permit if it determines from a consideration of the application
or other pertinent information, that:
      (1)   The information contained in the application or supplemental
information requested from the applicant is false or nonexistent in any
material detail;
      (2)   The applicant fails to supplement the application after having been
notified by the city of additional information or documents or additional
permitting needed;
      (3)   The applicant fails to agree to abide or comply with all of the
conditions and terms of the temporary cannabis event permit, including payment
of all costs and expenses;
      (4)   The temporary cannabis event would substantially or unnecessarily
interfere with traffic in the city, would interfere with access to the fire
station or fire hydrants, or would interfere with access to businesses or
residences in the immediate vicinity of the event and there are not sufficient
city resources available at the time of the event to mitigate the disruption;
      (5)   The temporary cannabis event is of the size or nature that requires
the diversion of so many law enforcement officers to properly police the event,
site and contiguous areas that allowing the temporary cannabis event would
unreasonably deny law enforcement protection to the remainder of the city and
its residents;
      (6)   The proposed date and time of the temporary cannabis event
conflicts with a previously scheduled event and there are not available at the
time of the proposed temporary cannabis event sufficient city resources to
provide services for both events without substantially or unnecessarily
interfering with police, fire, water, public works, or other services to the
city as a whole;
      (7)   The location of the temporary cannabis event will substantially
interfere with any construction or maintenance work scheduled to take place
upon or along public property right-of-way;
      (8)   The temporary cannabis event would likely endanger the public
safety or health;
      (9)   The temporary cannabis event would substantially or unnecessarily
interfere with police, fire, water, public works, or other services to the city
as a whole and there are not available at the time of the proposed event
sufficient city resources to mitigate the disruption;
      (10)   The applicant fails to comply with the liability insurance
requirements or the applicant's insurance lapses or is canceled; and
      (11)   The applicant has on prior occasions made material
misrepresentations regarding the nature and extent of special services required
for a temporary cannabis event in the city or has violated the terms of a prior
temporary cannabis event permit.
   (D)   Location restrictions. Temporary cannabis events are prohibited:
      (1)   At, in or on any public place or a place of public accommodation,
unless allowed by the city.
      (2)   If held outdoors, on any property within 1,000 feet of a school.
   (E)   Hours restrictions. Temporary cannabis events shall only be held
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m.
   (F)   On-site consumption of cannabis products is not permitted.
   (G)   Prior to the event, the licensed temporary cannabis event organizer
shall furnish a certificate of general liability insurance in form satisfactory
to the city in the amount of $1,000,000.
   (H)   All temporary cannabis event must be in compliance with the city's
nuisance ordinance at all times.
   (I)   All temporary cannabis events must follow all requirements of M.S. §
342.01 et seq.
(Ord. 2024-28, passed 12-17-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   PUBLIC SAFETY OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: PUBLIC SAFETY OFFENSES
Section
Weapons
   
130.01   Use of weapons restricted
   
130.02   Use of weapons prohibited
   
130.03   Offenses by parents, guardians
   
130.04   Definitions
Curfew for Minors
   
130.15   Purpose
   
130.16   Definitions
   
130.17   Hours
   
130.18   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor
   
130.19   Exceptions
   
130.20   Duties of person legally responsible for minor
   
130.21   Duties of other persons
   
130.22   Defense
   
130.23   Duties of law enforcement officer
 
   
130.99   Penalty
WEAPONS
§ 130.01 USE OF WEAPONS RESTRICTED.
   No person except a police officer in the performance of his or her duty
shall within the city discharge any gun, pistol, firearm, or weapon of any
description or carry such weapon unless it is dismounted, broken apart, or
carried in a case in such a manner that it cannot be discharged and/or
immediately used. This section shall not prevent the carrying of a handgun
within the city under a permit subject to the restrictions imposed by the
state.
(Prior Code, § 1601.010) (Ord. 7492, passed 3-20-2001) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 USE OF WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   Except as is provided in §
130.01, no person shall, within the corporate limits of the city, use, take
aim, or discharge any weapon, gun, bow, or catapult, including but not limited
to any pellet gun, air rifle/pistol, compound bow, crossbow, atlatl, or any
other similar device intended or capable of being used for the launching of
pellets, shots, bullets, arrows, darts, spears, or other projectiles, whether
the devices use explosive or chemical reactions, elastic, spring, or physical
or mechanical advantage, compressed fluid, compressed air, or any other energy
or force to achieve the discharge.
(Prior Code, § 1601.020) (Ord. 7492, passed 3-20-2001) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 OFFENSES BY PARENTS, GUARDIANS.
   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of any person under the age of 18
years to knowingly permit the person to violate any provision of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1601.030) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEAPON. Any gun, pistol, revolver, wrist rocket, slingshot, sand club, metal
knuckles, dagger, dirk, bowie knife, razor, air rifle, air gun, BB gun, spring
gun, stun gun, nunchaku, throwing stars, bow and arrow, switchblade, firearm,
or any similar device for the propulsion of shot or metal pellet by whatever
means, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument.
(Prior Code, § 1601.040) (Ord. 7492, passed 3-20-2001)
CURFEW FOR MINORS
§ 130.15 PURPOSE.
   The curfew for minors established by this subchapter is maintained for 4
primary reasons:
   (A)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during the
curfew hours;
   (B)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
   (C)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the curfew
hours; and
   (D)   To help parents control their minor children.
§ 130.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor's household.
The term shall include but shall not be limited to seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or Fire Department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or man-made calamity.
   OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the master
clock used by the Sheriff's Department.
   PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that include
but are not limited to movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping malls,
nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
   PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for providing
food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor. The person
providing PRIMARY CARE or custody to the minor shall not be another minor.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
§ 130.17 HOURS.
   (A)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16 years
shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other
public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment, or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot,
between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
   (B)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, or public buildings; nor in or upon places
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot,
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight and 5:00 a.m. the following day,
official city time.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 EFFECT ON CONTROL BY ADULT RESPONSIBLE FOR MINOR.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to give a minor the right to
stay out until the curfew hours designated in this subchapter if otherwise
directed by a parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care
and custody of the minor; nor shall this subchapter be construed to diminish or
impair the control of the adult person having the primary care or custody of
the minor.
§ 130.19 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply in the following
situations:
   (A)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
   (B)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his or
her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody
of the minor;
   (C)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this subchapter if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession, or occupation and the minor's
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor's presence at work;
   (D)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from an
event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor's
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor;
   (E)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of interstate
travel during the hours of curfew;
   (F)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion;
   (G)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city's designated law enforcement provider about the minor's presence; or
   (H)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise legally
emancipated.
§ 130.20 DUTIES OF PERSON LEGALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR MINOR.
   No parent, guardian, or other adult having the primary care or custody of
any minor shall permit any violation of the requirements of this subchapter by
the minor.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 DUTIES OF OTHER PERSONS.
   No person operating or in charge of any place of amusement, entertainment,
or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or remain in his or her place of
business during the hours prohibited by this subchapter unless the minor is
accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having primary
care or custody of the minor, or unless 1 of the exceptions to this subchapter
applies.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 DEFENSE.
   It shall be a defense to prosecution under this subchapter that the owner,
operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the city's
designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
§ 130.23 DUTIES OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   A law enforcement officer must look into whether a minor has an affirmative
defense before making an arrest.
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no
other penalty has been established shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Curfew penalties.
      (1)   Minors. Any minor found to be in violation of §§
130.15 through
130.23 may be adjudicated delinquent and shall be subject to the dispositional
alternatives set forth in M.S. § 260B.235, Subd. 4, as it may be amended from
time to time.
      (2)   Adults. Any adult person found to be in violation of §§
130.15 through
130.23 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
         
151.   HAZARDOUS AND SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS
         
152.   SOIL MANAGEMENT
         
153.   WATER DRAINAGE
         
154.   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
         
155.   LOWER ST. CROIX RIVER BLUFFLAND AND SHORELAND MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
         
156.   MINING REGULATIONS
         
157.   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM REGULATIONS
         
158.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
159.   ZONING REGULATIONS
         
160.   RESERVED
         
161.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND EROSION CONTROL ACTIVITIES
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
Codes Adopted
   
150.01   State Building Code
General Regulations
   
150.30   Alternate materials and methods; Board of Appeals
CODES ADOPTED
§ 150.01 STATE BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Codes adopted by reference. The Minnesota State Building Code, as
adopted by the Commissioner of Administration pursuant to M.S. §§ 326B.101
through 326B.194, as may be amended from time to time, including all of the
amendments, rules, and regulations established, adopted, and published from
time to time by the Minnesota Commissioner of Administration, through the
Building Codes and Standards Division is hereby adopted by reference with the
exception of the optional chapters, unless specifically adopted in this
section. The Minnesota State Building Code is hereby incorporated in this
section as if fully set out herein.
   (B)   Application, administration, and enforcement. The application,
administration, and enforcement of the building code shall be in accordance
with Minnesota State Building Code. The building code shall be enforced within
the city limits permitted by M.S. § 326B.121, as it may be amended from time to
time, when so established by this section. This code shall be enforced by the
Minnesota certified Building Official designated by the City of Lakeland to
administer the code pursuant to M.S. § 326B.133, including plumbing plan review
and inspections. Prior to installation of a system of plumbing other than for a
single-family dwelling with independent plumbing service, complete plumbing
plans and specifications, together with any additional information that the
Building Official may require, shall be submitted in triplicate and approved by
the Building Official. No construction shall proceed except in accordance with
the approved plans. Any alteration or extension of any existing plumbing system
shall be subject to these same requirements. A plumbing system installation, as
described herein, shall be subject to inspection as required by the State
Plumbing Code.
   (C)   Permits and fees. The issuance of permits and the collection of fees
shall be as authorized in M.S. § 326B.121, as it may be amended from time to
time. Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the city in §
33.01. In addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued
for work governed by this code in accordance with M.S. § 326B.148, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (D)   Violations and penalties. A violation of the code is a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 501.04) (Ord. 7514, passed 11-18-2008; Am. Ord. 7555, passed 6-
21-2016; Am. Ord. 7558, passed 10-17-2017)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 150.30 ALTERNATE MATERIALS AND METHODS; BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Any appeal of a determination or interpretation of the Building Official
shall be heard by the State Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 503.010) (Am. Ord. 7555, passed 6-21-2016)
CHAPTER 151: HAZARDOUS AND SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Removal by city consent; cost
   
151.03   Repair or removal of hazardous building
   
151.04   Posting of signs
   
151.05   The order
   
151.06   Enforcement of judgment
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Includes any structure or part of a structure.
   HAZARDOUS BUILDING.  Any building or structure which is structurally unsafe
or not provided with adequate egress, or which constitutes a fire hazard, or is
otherwise dangerous to human life, or which in relation to existing use
constitutes a hazard to safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of
inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard, or
abandonment, as specified in the State Building Code or any other effective
ordinance, are, for the purpose of this chapter, unsafe buildings. All such
unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated
by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal in accordance with the
procedure specified in this chapter.
   OWNER, OWNER OF RECORD, and LIEN HOLDER OF RECORD. A person having a right
or interest in property to which M.S. Chapter 324, as it may be amended from
time to time, applies and evidence of which is filed and recorded in the office
of the Registrar of Deeds or Registrar of Titles in Washington County.
(Prior Code, § 502.010)
§ 151.02 REMOVAL BY CITY CONSENT; COST.
   The City Council may remove or raze any hazardous building upon obtaining
the consent in writing of all owners of record, occupying tenants, and all lien
holders of record; the cost shall be charged against the real estate as
provided in this chapter, except the cost so assessed may be paid not to exceed
5 equal annual installments with interest thereon, at 5% per annum.
(Prior Code, § 502.020)
§ 151.03 REPAIR OR REMOVAL OF HAZARDOUS BUILDING.
   The City Council may order the owner of any hazardous building within the
municipality to correct the hazardous condition of the building or to raze or
remove the same.
(Prior Code, § 502.030)
§ 151.04 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   The Building Official shall cause to be posted at each entrance to the
building a notice to read: "DO NOT ENTER, UNSAFE TO OCCUPY. Building
Department, City of Lakeland." This notice shall remain posted until the
required repairs, demolition, or removal are completed. The notice shall not be
removed without written permission of the Building Official and no person shall
enter the building except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of
demolishing the building.
(Prior Code, § 502.040)
§ 151.05 THE ORDER.
   (A)   Contents.  The order shall be in writing; recite the grounds therefor;
specify the necessary repairs, if any; and provide a reasonable time for
compliance not to exceed 90 days and shall state that a motion for summary
enforcement of the order will be made to the District Court of the county
unless corrective action is taken, or unless an answer is filed within 20 days.
   (B)   Service.  The order shall be served upon the owner of record, or his
or her agent if an agent is in charge of the building, and upon the occupying
tenant, if there is one and upon all lien holders of record in the manner
provided for service of a summons in a civil action. If the owner cannot be
found, the order shall be served upon him or her by posting it at the main
entrance to the building and by 4 weeks' publication in the official newspaper.
   (C)   Filing.  A copy of the order with proof of service shall be filed with
the Clerk of the District Court of Washington County not less than 5 days prior
to the filing of a motion to enforce the order. At the time of filing the
order, the City Council shall file for record with the Registrar of Deeds or
Registrar of Titles a notice of the pendency of the proceeding, describing with
reasonable certainty the lands affected and the nature of the order. If the
proceeding be abandoned, the city shall within 10 days thereafter file with the
Registrar of Deeds a notice to that effect.
(Prior Code, § 502.050)
§ 151.06 ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT.
   The City Council shall keep an accurate account of the expenses incurred in
carrying out the order and of all other expenses theretofore incurred in
connection with its enforcement, including specifically, but not exclusively,
filing fees, service fees, publication fees, appraiser's fees, witness fees,
including expert witness fees, and traveling expenses incurred by the city from
the time the order was originally made, and shall credit thereon the amount, if
any, received from the sale of the salvage, or building or structure. If the
amount received from the sale of the salvage, or of the building or structure,
does not equal or exceed the amount of expenses as allowed, the owner or other
party in interest shall pay the same and in default of payment by October 1,
the City Clerk shall certify the amount of the expense to the County Auditor
for entry on the tax lists of the county as a special charge against the real
estate on which the building is or was situated and the same shall be collected
in the same manner as other taxes and the amount so collected shall be paid in
the City Treasury. If the amount received for the sale of the salvage or of the
building or structure exceeds the expense incurred by the city and if there are
no delinquent taxes, the surplus shall be paid to the owner. If there are
delinquent taxes against the property, payment of the surplus shall be paid to
the County Treasurer to be applied on the taxes.
(Prior Code, § 502.060)
CHAPTER 152: SOIL MANAGEMENT
Section
Soil Erosion
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Scope
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Excessive soil loss prohibited
   
152.05   Agricultural activity
   
152.06   Development activity
   
152.07   Exemptions
Soil Erosion Control for Agricultural Use
   
152.15   Complaint
   
152.16   District determination of soil loss
   
152.17   Report
   
152.18   Notice of excessive soil loss
   
152.19   Appointment of mediator
   
152.20   Settlement
   
152.21   Filing of settlement
   
152.22   Cost-share funds
   
152.23   Noncompliance; civil penalty
   
152.24   Forwarding complaint to County Attorney
   
152.25   District Court hearing; civil penalty
   
152.26   District assistance
   
152.27   Cost-share application
Soil Erosion Control for Development Activities
   
152.40   Sedimentation control plan
   
152.41   Minimum planning standard
   
152.42   Location
   
152.43   Review
   
152.44   Permit required
   
152.45   Noncompliance; civil penalty
   
152.46   Establishment of cost-share funds
   
152.47   Variance
   
152.48   More restrictive standard controls
   
152.49   Incorporation of rules and documents
   
152.50   Provisions are cumulative
Restrictive Soils
   
152.60   Legislative findings and purposes
   
152.61   District boundaries
   
152.62   Definitions
   
152.63   Restrictive soils development permit provision
   
152.64   Responsibility; effect
   
Appendix A:   Soil Loss Limits "T" for Soils in Washington County
SOIL EROSION
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to encourage and guide the use of land in
accordance with its capabilities to prevent the degradation of lands, streams,
and rivers and to protect and promote the health, safety, and general welfare
of the people of the city.
(Prior Code, § 403.010) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.02 SCOPE.
   This chapter and soil loss limits specified within this chapter apply to all
incorporated land within the city, including but not limited to agricultural
land, woodland, pasture land, open space, and land subject to development
activity.
(Prior Code, § 403.020) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL USE.  Use of land for the production of livestock, dairy
animals, dairy products, poultry or poultry products, furbearing animals,
horticultural or nursery stock including sod, fruit, vegetables, forage and
cash grains, forestry, or bees and apiary products. Wetlands, pasture, and
woodlands accompanying land in agricultural use are also in AGRICULTURAL USE.
   CITY.  
      (1)   The elected City Council of the city, or its designated officials
or agents. Agents may include districts, water management organizations, joint
powers boards, watershed districts, or other governmental entities responsible
for resource management within the city.
      (2)   After adopting a soil loss ordinance, the city may enter into an
agreement with its agent allowing the agent to administer the functions and
perform the duties of the city set out in §§
152.15,
152.16,
152.18,
152.24,
152.25, and
152.40.
   CONSERVATION PLAN and TIME SCHEDULE.  CONSERVATION PLAN means a document
listing a set of practices that when implemented will decrease soil erosion to
the soil loss limits on a particular parcel of land. The TIME SCHEDULE sets
times to implement, make satisfactory progress, and complete any conservation
plan.
   CONSERVATION PRACTICES.  Practices and standards containing a definition,
purpose, and conditions under which the practice applies, including design
requirements, and specifications containing a statement of details required for
installing a conservation practice, including kinds, quality, and quantity of
work and materials need to meet the standards.
      (1)   A CONSERVATION PRACTICE may be permanent or temporary, vegetative
or structural measure that when applied to the land will contribute to the
control of wind and water erosion and sedimentation. CONSERVATION PRACTICES may
be used in a development activity area or an agricultural use area.
      (2)   Permanent practices are those that have an effective life of 10
years or more and include grassed waterways, terraces, field windbreaks, water
control structures, grade stabilization structures, sediment retention
structures, stripcropping, water and sediment control basins, and other
permanent practices approved by the Minnesota Board of Water and Soil
Resources.
      (3)   Temporary practices include conservation tillage, contour farming,
grasses and legumes in rotation, emergency tillage, fabric filter barriers,
filter strips, stormwater inlet and outlet protection and any other cultural
practices approved by the Minnesota Board of Water and Soil Resources.
      (4)   The Field Office Technical Guide or other recognized technical
procedures shall be used to design, install, and certify practices.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. A physical disturbance, excluding agricultural use, of
the land associated with activities that may result in sedimentation of
adjacent lands or waters. These activities include but are not limited to
clearing, grading, excavating, transporting, draining, and filling lands.
Federal, state, county, and municipal road construction designed and installed
according to Department of Transportation standard specifications for
construction are not DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES.
   DISTRICT.  A Soil and Water Conservation District organized under M.S.
Chapter 40, as it may be amended from time to time.
   EROSION. Any process that wears away the surface of land by the action of
water, wind, ice, or gravity. EROSION can be accelerated by the activities of
humans and nature.
   EXCESSIVE SOIL LOSS. Soil loss that is greater than the soil loss limits set
out in the definition of "soil loss limit" in this section, or which causes
sedimentation or adjoining land or in a body of water, watercourse, or wetland.
   FIELD OFFICE TECHNICAL GUIDE.  The guide developed by the United States
Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service and adopted by the
District. The Technical Guide contains methods and procedures by which the
various types of erosion can be estimated and conservation practice standards
and specifications required in the application of soil and water conservation
practices.
   LAND OCCUPIER. A person, firm, corporation, municipality, or other legal
entity that holds title to or is in possession of any land as owner, lessee,
renter, tenant, or otherwise. The term includes both the owner and the occupier
of the land if they are not the same.
   SEDIMENT. Solid mineral or organic material that, in suspension, is being
transported or has been moved from its original site by air, water, gravity, or
ice, and has been deposited at another location.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process or action of depositing sediment that, upon
inspection, is determined to have been caused by erosion.
   SEDIMENTATION CONTROL PLAN; TIME SCHEDULE. A document listing a set of
practices that, when implemented, will decrease sedimentation to the allowable
level on a particular parcel of land. A TIME SCHEDULE must set times to
implement, make satisfactory progress on, and complete the SEDIMENTATION
CONTROL PLAN.
   SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the immediate
surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for growth of land plants.
   SOIL LOSS LIMIT.  The maximum amount of soil loss from water or wind
erosion, expressed in tons per acre per year, allowed on a particular soil. The
SOIL LOSS LIMITS for soils found in the city are the soil loss tolerances for
each soil series as described in the Field Office Technical Guide. The United
States Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service has prepared a soil
survey for Washington County that sets out the soil loss tolerances, according
to the Field Office Technical Guide, for each soil series found in Washington
County. The official Washington County Soil Survey is adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter. The official Washington County Soil
Survey shall be on file in the offices of County Auditor and Zoning
Administrator.
      (1)   The soil loss limit for each soil series found in the city is set
forth in
Appendix A to this chapter.
      (2)   Any other soil found in the city and not listed herein has maximum
soil loss tolerance of 5 tons per acre per year.
   SOIL LOSS TOLERANCE. The maximum level of soil erosion that will permit a
high level crop productivity to be sustained economically and indefinitely.
(Prior Code, § 403.030) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.04 EXCESSIVE SOIL LOSS PROHIBITED.
   A person may not cause, conduct for, or authorize an activity that causes
excessive soil loss.
(Prior Code, § 403.040) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.05 AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY.
   A land occupier shall:
   (A)   If engaged in an agricultural use, prevent excessive soil loss and
ensure that property management and conservation practices are being applied to
the land;
   (B)   If using wooded or open land for pasture, ensure that property
management is used to prevent excessive soil loss due to overgrazing or cattle
paths;
   (C)   If using wooded land for timber harvest, ensure that proper management
is used to prevent excessive soil loss; and
   (D)   If a body of water, watercourse, or wetland is located within an
agricultural use area, wooded or open land used for pasture, or a wooded area
used for timber harvest, ensure that proper management and conservation
practices are being applied to the surrounding land.
(Prior Code, § 403.050) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.06 DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY.
   A person engaged in a development activity that will disturb land shall
submit a sedimentation control plan and time schedule that will prevent
excessive soil loss or sediment from damaging adjacent land, bodies of water,
watercourses, or wetlands to the local government or its agent for approval.
(Prior Code, § 403.060) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   An occupier of agricultural land is not violating §
152.04 if the District report, as developed through §
152.17, shows that existing farming practices and methods are being effectively
applied to control soil loss.
   (A)   A land occupier engaged in federal, state, county, municipal, or
township road construction and maintenance is not violating §
152.04 if the road construction and maintenance is designed and installed
according to Department of Transportation standard specifications for
construction and maintenance.
   (B)   A land occupier engaged in a development activity shall not be
required to develop a sediment control plan and shall not be considered in
violation of §
152.06 when involved in 1 of the following activities:
      (1)   Minor land disturbance activities such as home gardens and
individual home landscaping, repairs, and maintenance work;
      (2)   Construction, installation, maintenance of electric, telephone, and
utility lines or individual service connection to utility lines;
      (3)   Septic tank lines or drainage fields, unless included in an overall
plan for a land development activity relating to construction of a building to
be served by the septic tank system;
      (4)   Preparation for single-family residences separately built, unless
in conjunction with multiple construction in subdivision development;
      (5)   Disturbance of land areas less than 10,000 square feet for
commercial or noncommercial uses, except that the governing body of the local
unit of government may reduce this exception to a smaller area of disturbed
land or qualify the conditions under which this exception applies;
      (6)   Installation of fence, sign, telephone, and electric poles and
other kinds of posts or poles; and
      (7)   Emergency work or repairs to protect life, limb, or property.
(Prior Code, § 403.070) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
SOIL EROSION CONTROL FOR AGRICULTURAL USE
§ 152.15 COMPLAINT.
   An adversely affected land occupier, and elected or appointed official of
the city or a District board member may submit a signed, written complaint to
the city if conditions exist that indicate there is excessive soil loss from a
tract of land.
   (A)   Elements of complaint. The signed, written complaint shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the allegedly offending land occupier;
      (2)   The location of the tract of land with the alleged excessive soil
loss;
      (3)   Other land or water that is allegedly being affected by the
excessive soil loss; and
      (4)   A description of the nature of the alleged excessive soil loss and
resulting sedimentation.
   (B)   Complaint to District.  The city shall submit the complaint to the
District for soil loss determination. The local government shall notify the
alleged offending land occupier of the complaint and that the District will be
contacting the land occupier to review the site, determine the severity of the
problem, and assist the land occupier in correcting the problem. The local
government shall also name a contact person for further assistance.
(Prior Code, § 403.080) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.16 DISTRICT DETERMINATION OF SOIL LOSS.
   (A)   The District shall determine the average annual soil loss in tons per
acre per year for the tract of land cited in the complaint.
   (B)   The District may enter public or private land to make an inspection to
determine soil loss or to complete the report. The land occupier shall be
notified of the time of the inspection and be given an opportunity to be
present when the inspection is made.
      (1)   The land occupier shall be notified of the time of inspection 10
days prior to the date of the inspection.
      (2)   The notice shall be delivered either by personal service or by
certified mail.
      (3)   If the owner of the property and the occupier of the residence
differ, both shall receive notification under the procedure stated above.
(Prior Code, § 403.090) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.17 REPORT.
   The District shall submit a report to the city that states the average soil
loss in tons per acre per year for each tract of land and whether that soil
loss is excessive under the applicable soil loss limits.
   (A)   If the soil loss is excessive, the report shall include identification
of existing farming practices and a preliminary conservation plan and time
schedule that will prevent excessive soil loss.
   (B)   If the District report shows that soil loss from the tract of land is
equal to or below the soil loss tolerance for that soil series, the city may
dismiss the complaint and notify the land occupier.
(Prior Code, § 403.100) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.18 NOTICE OF EXCESSIVE SOIL LOSS.
   (A)   The city shall issue a notice of excessive soil loss to the land
occupier.
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   Describe the land and state the extent to which soil loss exceeds
the soil loss limits;
      (2)   Be delivered by either personal service or by certified mail; and
      (3)   State a time, not more than 90 days after the date of delivery of
the order, by which mediation shall be commenced.
(Prior Code, § 403.110) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.19 APPOINTMENT OF MEDIATOR.
   The city may appoint the Washington County Soil and Water Conservation
Service to act as mediator. The city may also contract with a mediation center
to provide mediation services.
(Prior Code, § 403.120) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.20 SETTLEMENT.
   The land occupier and the city shall attempt to agree on a conservation plan
and time schedule that will reduce soil loss to the local soil loss limits.
(Prior Code, § 403.130) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.21 FILING OF SETTLEMENT.
   A mediated settlement shall be approved by the local government and the land
occupier, put in writing, and filed with the county.
(Prior Code, § 403.140) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.22 COST-SHARE FUNDS.
   The land occupier has 90 days after the settlement is filed to apply for
state cost-share funds that will provide 75% of the cost of permanent
conservation practices. Only 50% cost-share may be provided if the application
is not made within 90 days after the settlement is filed. The land occupier
shall apply for 50% cost-share within 270 days after the mediated settlement is
filed.
(Prior Code, § 403.150) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.23 NONCOMPLIANCE; CIVIL PENALTY.
   A land occupier who does not comply with the provisions of the mediated
written agreement set forth in §§
152.20 through
152.22 is subject to a civil penalty up to $500.
(Prior Code, § 403.160) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.24 FORWARDING COMPLAINT TO COUNTY ATTORNEY.
   If the city and land occupier do not reach a mediated settlement, or if the
land occupier refuses to participate in mediation, the city shall forward the
complaint to the County Attorney. The County Attorney may petition the District
Court for a hearing under §
152.25.
(Prior Code, § 403.170) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.25 DISTRICT COURT HEARING; CIVIL PENALTY.
   (A)   Hearing. If the land occupier and the city do not reach a mediated
written agreement or if the land occupier has refused mediation, the County
Attorney may petition the District Court for a hearing. The land occupier may
present a conservation plan and time schedule as an alternative to the city
conservation plan and time schedule. The Court shall follow the procedure and
the criteria set out at Minn. Rules, part 8400.4055, as it may be amended from
time to time, in issuing an order for the implementation of a conservation plan
and time schedule.
   (B)   Cost-share funds. If the Court orders the implementation of:
      (1)   The land occupier's conservation plan and time schedule, amends the
conservation plan and time schedule, or develops a new conservation plan and
time schedule, the land occupier is eligible to apply for 75% cost-share funds
for permanent conservation practices. The land occupier shall apply for the
cost-share within 90 days after the court order. If the land occupier does not
apply within 90 days for the cost-share funds, the cost share must be reduced
by 50%. The court shall establish a time when the land occupier is not eligible
for cost-share funds if an application is not made; or
      (2)   The conservation plan and time schedule developed by the city, the
land occupier shall be eligible for 50% cost-share funds if the land occupier
applies within 90 days after the court order.
   (C)   Civil penalty. If the land occupier does not comply with the
provisions of the court order, the land occupier is subject to a civil penalty
up to $500.
(Prior Code, § 403.180) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.26 DISTRICT ASSISTANCE.
   A land occupier who has filed a mediated written settlement under §
152.20 or who has received a court order under §
152.25 may request the District to assist in the planning, design, and
application of practices necessary to reduce soil loss to the soil loss limits
set out in the definition thereof in §
152.03. The District must give the land occupier a high priority for technical
and cost-share fund assistance.
(Prior Code, § 403.190) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.27 COST-SHARE APPLICATION.
   The method of application and eligibility requirements for cost-share funds
shall follow Minn. Rules, parts 8400.0100 to 8400.2900, as may be amended from
time to time. If any other state or federal cost-share funds are used, the
method of application and eligibility requirements shall follow the current
state or federal guidelines.
(Prior Code, § 403.200) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
SOIL EROSION CONTROL FOR DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
§ 152.40 SEDIMENTATION CONTROL PLAN.
   The provisions of this section only apply to the city.
   (A)   A person engaged in a development activity that will disturb land
shall submit a sedimentation control plan and time schedule that will prevent
excessive soil loss or sediment from damaging adjacent land, bodies of water,
watercourses, or wetlands to the city or its agent for approval.
   (B)   A sedimentation control plan and time schedule must specify how the
movement of soil and damage to other lands and regions will be minimized,
during the construction process; these methods include but are not limited to
the use of: temporary and permanent seedlings, fabric, plastic, or straw
barriers, mulch, sediment control basins, or other conservation practices
adequate to prevent erosion and sediment damage. A sedimentation control plan
shall not be required for the following development activities.
      (1)   Minor land disturbance activities such as home gardens and
individual home landscaping, repairs, and maintenance work;
      (2)   Construction, installation, maintenance of electric and telephone
utility lines or individual service connection to the utility lines;
      (3)   Septic tank lines or drainage fields, unless included in an overall
plan for a land development activity relating to construction of a building to
be served by the septic tank system;
      (4)   Preparation for single-family residences separately built, unless
in conjunction with multiple construction in subdivision development;
      (5)   Disturbance of land areas less than 10,000 square feet for
commercial or noncommercial uses, except that the governing body of the local
unit of government may reduce this exception to a smaller area of disturbed
land or qualify the conditions under which this exception applies;
      (6)   Installation of fence, sign, telephone and electric poles, and
other kinds of posts or poles; and
      (7)   Emergency work and repairs to protect life, limb, or property.
   (C)   The following shall be addressed in developing and implementing a
sedimentation control plan:
      (1)   Stabilization of denuded areas and stockpiles;
      (2)   Establishment of permanent vegetation;
      (3)   Protection of adjacent areas;
      (4)   Timing and stabilization of sediment trapping measures;
      (5)   Use of sediment basins;
      (6)   Stabilization of cut and fill slopes;
      (7)   Stormwater management for controlling off-site erosion;
      (8)   Stabilization of waterways and outlets;
      (9)   Storm sewer inlet protection;
      (10)   Working in or crossing water bodies;
      (11)   Underground utility construction;
      (12)   Construction access roads;
      (13)   Disposition of all temporary measures; and
      (14)   Maintenance of all temporary and permanent urban conservation
practices.
   (D)   The time schedule accompanying the sedimentation control plan shall
establish deadlines for the implementation and completion of each phase or
element of the sedimentation control plan.
(Prior Code, § 403.210) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.41 MINIMUM PLANNING STANDARD.   
   The Minnesota Construction Site Erosion and Sediment Control Planning
Handbook shall be the minimum planning standard for a sedimentation control
plan. Any other procedures shall be approved by the local unit of government
and the District prior to its use.
(Prior Code, § 403.220) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.42 LOCATION.
   Any conservation practice developed for the sedimentation control plan may
not be located in violation of any existing ordinance the city is currently
enforcing.
(Prior Code, § 403.230) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.43 REVIEW.
   (A)   The city may appoint the Zoning Administrator, Building Inspector, or
City Engineer to review the sedimentation control plan and time schedule.
   (B)   The city shall forward the sedimentation control plan and time
schedule to the appointed reviewer within 7 days of receiving the sedimentation
control plan and time schedule from the land occupier.
   (C)   The appointed reviewer shall review the sedimentation control plan and
time schedule within 21 days of receiving the plan from the city. The city
shall notify the land occupier of its decision after receipt of the comments
from the reviewer and no more than 28 days after receiving the sedimentation
control plan and time schedule from the land occupier.
(Prior Code, § 403.240) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.44 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   If the reviewer determines that the sedimentation control plan and
time schedule will control sedimentation, the city shall issue a permit that
authorizes the development activity contingent upon the implementation and
completion of the sedimentation control plan.
   (B)   If the reviewer determines that the sedimentation control plan and
time schedule do not control sedimentation, the city shall not issue a permit
for the development activity. The sedimentation control plan and time schedule
shall be resubmitted for approval before the development activity begins.
(Prior Code, § 403.250) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.45 NONCOMPLIANCE; CIVIL PENALTY.
   A person engaged in a development activity who does not secure a
sedimentation control plan and time schedule or makes satisfactory progress to
complete the plan and schedule is subject to a civil penalty. The city shall
file the complaint with the County Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 403.260) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.46 ESTABLISHMENT OF COST-SHARE FUNDS.
   (A)   Except for development activity, a land occupier is entitled to apply
for cost-share funds in the amounts set in §§
152.22 and
152.25(B).
   (B)   If cost-share funds are not currently available, the land occupier and
District shall enter into a priority cost-share assistance contract for future
cost-share funds. The priority cost-share assistance contract shall state the
percentage of cost-share funds as set in §§
152.22 and
152.25(B).
   (C)   With the approval of the priority cost-share assistance contract, the
land occupier shall be in compliance with the mediated or court-ordered
agreement.
(Prior Code, § 403.270) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.47 VARIANCE.
   A land occupier may petition the local government for a variance from this
chapter.
   (A)   The land occupier must document in the variance the economic hardship
or technical infeasibility for the petition.
   (B)   Procedures for hearing such a variance petition shall be the same as
are outlined in the city Zoning Regulations set forth in
Chapter 159.
(Prior Code, § 403.280) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.48 MORE RESTRICTIVE STANDARD CONTROLS.
   In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of an erosion control ordinance adopted by the city, the more
restrictive standard prevails.
(Prior Code, § 403.290) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.49 INCORPORATION OF RULES AND DOCUMENTS.
   Minn. Rules, parts 8400.4000 to 8400.4075, as may be amended from time to
time, are incorporated by reference into this chapter. The priority cost-share
assistance contract is incorporated by reference into this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 403.310) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.50 PROVISIONS ARE CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this chapter are cumulative to other laws, ordinances, and
regulations heretofore passed, or which may be passed hereafter, covering any
subject matter in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 403.320) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
RESTRICTIVE SOILS
§ 152.60 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
   (A)   The city finds that certain areas within the city are characterized by
certain soil types, slopes, and water levels which, without proper corrective
action, are unsuitable for development of any type; inappropriate development
in these areas increases the amount of soil materials entering groundwater,
encourages pollution, destroys ecological and natural resources, and requires
expenditures of public funds to correct deficiencies; thereby acting to the
detriment of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Lakeland.
   (B)   Therefore, the purposes of this subchapter are to provide for the
regulation of development on restrictive soils in such a way as to minimize the
risk of environmental damage and to protect private homeowners and governmental
units from incurring high maintenance and capital costs resulting from the
necessity of correcting deficiencies encountered as a result of development on
poorly suited soils.
(Prior Code, § 404.010) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.61 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   This subchapter shall apply to areas within the city which are delineated on
the official soils maps of Washington County as contained in the Washington
County Soil Survey, and have soil types set forth in
Appendix A to this chapter. For purposes of determining the application of this
chapter to any particular parcel of land, the above-referenced map shall be on
file in the office of the City Clerk, and shall be available for inspection and
copying.
(Prior Code, § 404.020) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.62 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON.  An individual or firm, corporation, partnership, association, or
other private body or governmental entity.
   STRUCTURE. Any building which may provide shelter for any person, animal, or
item of property.
(Prior Code, § 404.030) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.63 RESTRICTIVE SOILS DEVELOPMENT PERMIT PROVISION.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as hereinafter provided in this subchapter, no
person shall erect any structure within restrictive soils areas without having
first obtained a written permit from the Building Inspector authorizing the
same.
   (B)   Exceptions. The permit requirements established by this chapter shall
not apply to:
      (1)   Any public agency or its contractor or any person performing work
within a right-of-way of any public agency pursuant to a permit issued by the
public agency;
      (2)   Emergency work necessary to preserve life or property. When
emergency work is performed under this section, the person performing it shall
report the pertinent facts relating to the work to the Building Inspector prior
to the commencement of the work. The Building Inspector shall review the facts
and determine whether any emergency exists and shall, by written memorandum,
authorize the commencement of the emergency exception. The person commencing
emergency work shall, within 10 days following the commencement of that
activity, apply for the issuance of a restrictive soils development permit and
on the issuance thereof may be required to perform such work as is determined
to be reasonably necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter; or
      (3)   Development consisting of the corrective alteration, repair, or
maintenance of any lost full use of land existing on the date of adoption of
this chapter.
   (C)   Application for and process of permit.  A separate application for a
permit shall be made to the Building Inspector for each development for which a
permit is required, except that only 1 application need be made for 2 or more
such acts which are to be done on the same parcel. The application shall
include a map of the site and a delineation of the soils found in the site
along with a plan and cost estimate of the proposed development and such other
engineering data, surveys, and other information and materials as may be
required in order to determine the effects of the development on the affected
land and the suitability of the soils for that development. When proposed work
includes construction or alterations of structures, that work shall be
submitted with the application, along with detailed drawings of any special
foundation structures and/or special provisions for on-site sewage disposal.
   (D)   Issuance of permit. The following standards shall govern the issuance
of permits for development:
      (1)   Development on restrictive soils shall not be permitted until an
investigation and subsequent report has been completed and presented to the
Building Inspector by a professional engineer or soil scientist experienced and
knowledgeable in the practice of soils and soils mechanics, and until the
recommendations thereof have been incorporated into the design plan and
specification. No permit shall be issued for development on soils deemed by
this subchapter to be unsuitable.
      (2)   Located in
Appendix A to this chapter is a grouping of restrictive soils from the Soil
Survey of Washington County which are hereby incorporated and made a part of
this subchapter.
      (3)   The soil symbols set forth in
Appendix A are highly restrictive for residential, commercial, industrial, or
other development due to high water table (3 feet or less), steep slope
conditions (18% slopes or greater), high shrink swell potential, high frost
action potential, or bedrock. No development permit shall be issued unless it
has first been demonstrated by the developer that buildings shall be
constructed in accordance with the standards found in the Minnesota State
Building Code for appropriate soil conditions, and that a soil absorption
disposal system can satisfactorily function in accordance with municipal
regulations. Those standards are hereby incorporated by reference into this
subchapter.
   (E)   Conditions. A special permit may be approved subject to compliance
with conditions reasonable and necessary to ensure compliance with the
requirements contained in this chapter which are specifically set forth in the
permits. Such conditions may, among other matters, limit the size and character
of the proposed development, require the construction of other structures,
including special foundations and soil stabilization structures, establish
required monitoring procedures, require such alterations of the site as may be
necessary, and/or require the conveyance to the city or other public entity of
certain lands or interests therein.
   (F)   Time of permit - extensions, reviews.
      (1)   Extensions. A permittee shall begin the work authorized by the
permit within 60 days from the date of issuance of the permit unless a
different date for the commencement of work is set forth in the permit. The
permittee shall complete the work authorized by the permit which in no event
shall exceed more than 12 months from the date of issuance. The permittee shall
notify the Building Inspector at least 24 hours prior to the commencement of
work. Should the work not be commenced as specified herein, then the permit
shall become void; provided, however, that if prior to the date established for
commencement of work, the permittee makes written request to the Building
Inspector for an extension of time to commence the work, setting forth the
reasons for the required extension, the Building Inspector may grant the
extension. A permit which has become void may be renewed at the discretion of
the Building Inspector upon payment of a renewal fee. A permit for such work
may be granted only upon compliance with the procedures herein established for
any original application.
      (2)   Notice of completion. The permittee shall notify the Building
Inspector in writing of the termination of the work authorized, and no work
shall be deemed to have been completed until approved in writing by the
Building Inspector following this written notification.
      (3)   Inspection. The Building Inspector may cause inspections of the
work to be made periodically during the course thereof by himself or herself or
a member of the Building Inspector staff and shall cause a final inspection to
be made following the completion of the work.
   (G)   Variances and appeals. Variance and appeals for this subchapter shall
be administered pursuant to the city Zoning Ordinance, §
159.022.
(Prior Code, § 404.040) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
§ 152.64 RESPONSIBILITY; EFFECT.
   The issuance of a permit and/or compliance with the conditions thereof, or
with the terms therewith, shall not relieve any person from any responsibility
otherwise imposed by law for damage to persons or property; nor shall the
issuance of any permit hereunder serve to impose any liability on the city or
its officers or agents.
(Prior Code, § 404.050) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
APPENDIX A: SOIL LOSS LIMITS "T" FOR SOILS IN WASHINGTON COUNTY
Map Symbol Soil Name "T" Tons/ac/year
Map Symbol Soil Name                                        "T" Tons/ac/year
2          Ostrander silt loam, 0-2% slopes                 5
2B         Ostrander silt loam, 2-6% slopes                 5
2C         Ostrander silt loam, 6-12% slopes                5
7B         Hubbard loamy sand, 1-6% slopes                  5
7C         Hubbard loamy sand, 6-12% slopes                 5
7D         Hubbard loamy sand, 12-18% slopes                5
8          Sparta loamy sand, 0-2% slopes                   5
8B         Sparta loamy sand, 2-6% slopes                   5
8C         Sparta loamy sand, 6-15% slopes                  5
12C        Emmert loamy coarse sand, 3-15% slopes           2
12D        Emmert gravelly loamy coarse sand, 12-25% slopes 2
49         Antigo silt loam, 0-2% slopes                    4
49B        Antigo silt loam, 2-6% slopes                    4
49C        Antigo silt loam, 6-12% slopes                   4
49D        Antigo silt loam, 12-18% slopes                  4
75         Bluffton loam                                    5
100B       Copaston loam, 0-6% slopes                       2
100C       Copaston loam, 6-12% slopes                      2
113        Webster loam                                     5
120        Brill silt loam                                  4
123        Dundas fine sandy loam                           5
132B       Hayden fine sandy loam, 2-6%                     5
 
Map Symbol Soil Name "T" Tons/ac/year
Map Symbol Soil Name                                "T" Tons/ac/year
132C       Hayden fine sandy loam, 6-12%            5
132D       Hayden fine sandy loam, 12-25%           5
151        Burkhardt sandy loam, 0-3% slopes        3
151B       Burkhardt sandy loam, 3-9% slopes        3
153B       Santiago silt loam, 2-6% slopes          5
153C       Santiago silt loam, 6-15% slopes         5
155B       Chetek sandy loam, 0-6% slopes           3
155C       Chetek sandy loam, 6-12% slopes          3
155D       Chetek sandy loam, 12-25% slopes         3
158B       Zimmerman loamy fine sand, 0-6% slopes   5
158C       Zimmerman loamy fine sand, 6-12% slopes  5
158D       Zimmerman loamy fine sand, 12-25% slopes 5
159        Anoka loamy fine sand, 0-3% slopes       5
159B       Anoka loamy fine sand, 3-9% slopes       5
161        Isanti loamy fine sand                   5
162        Lino loamy fine sand                     5
166        Ronneby fine sandy loam                  5
169B       Brahan loamy fine sand, 1-6% slopes      5
169C       Brahan loamy fine sand, 6-15% slopes     5
170        Blomford loamy fine sand                 5
174C       Gale silt loam, 6-15% slopes             4
174D       Gale silt loam, 25-50%                   4
177B       Gotham loamy sand, 1-6% slopes           5
177C       Gotham loamy sand, 6-12% slopes          5
 
Map Symbol Soil Name "T" Tons/ac/year
Map Symbol Soil Name                           "T" Tons/ac/year
177D       Gotham loamy sand, 12-20% slopes    5
189        Auburndale silt loam                5
225        Nessel fine sandy loam, 1-4% slopes 5
259B       Grays silt loam, 2-6% slopes        5
264        Freeon silt loam, 1-4% slopes       5
265        Soderville loamy fine sand          5
266        Freer silt loam                     5
298        Richwood silt loam, 0-2% slopes     5
298B       Richwood silt loam, 2-6% slopes     5
301B       Lindstrom silt loam, 2-4% slopes    5
302B       Rosholt sandy loam, 1-6% slopes     3
302C       Rosholt sandy loam, 6-15% slopes    3
325        Prebish loam                        5
327        Dickman sandy loam, 0-2% slopes     3
327B       Dickman sandy loam, 2-6% slopes     3
327C       Dickman sandy loam, 6-12% slopes    3
329        Chaska silt loam                    5
340B       Whalen silt loam, 1-6% slopes       4
340C       Whalen silt loam, 6-12% slopes      4
342B       Kingsley sandy loam, 2-6% slopes    5
342C       Kingsley sandy loam, 6-12% slopes   5
342D       Kingsley sandy loam, 12-18% slopes  5
342E       Kingsley sandy loam, 18-30% slopes  5
367B       Campia silt loam, 0-8% slopes       5
 
Map Symbol Soil Name "T" Tons/ac/year
Map Symbol Soil Name                             "T" Tons/ac/year
408        Faxon silt loam                       4
411        Waukegan silt loam, 0-2% slopes       4
411B       Waukegan silt loam, 2-6% slopes       4
411C       Waukegan silt loam, 6-12% slopes      4
449        Crystal lake silt loam, 1-3% slopes   5
452        Comstock silt loam                    5
453B       Demontreville loamy fine sand, 2-6%   5
453C       Demontreville loamy fine sand, 6-12%  5
453D       Demontreville loamy fine sand, 12-25% 5
454B       Mahtomedi loamy sand, 0-6% slopes     5
454C       Mahtomedi loamy sand, 6-12% slopes    5
454D       Mahtomedi loamy sand, 12-25% slopes   5
454F       Mahtomedi loamy sand, 25-40% slopes   5
456        Barronett silt loam                   5
460B       Baytown silt loam, 1-6% slopes        4
460C       Baytown silt loam, 6-12% slopes       4
468        Otter silt loam                       5
472B       Channahon silt loam, 1-6% slopes      2-1
472C       Channahon silt loam, 6-12% slopes     2-1
472D       Channahon silt loam, 12-18% slopes    2-1
481        Kratka fine sandy loam                5
488F       Brodale flaggy loam, 20-50% slopes    2
504B       Duluth silt loam, 1-6 slopes          5
504C       Duluth silt loam, 6-12% slopes        5
 
Map Symbol Soil Name "T" Tons/ac/year
Map Symbol Soil Name                          "T" Tons/ac/year
504D       Duluth silt loam, 12-25% slopes    5
507        Poskin silt loam                   4
529        Ripon silt loam, 1-2% slopes       4
529B       Ripon silt loam, 2-6% slopes       4
529C       Ripon silt loam, 6-12% slopes      4
540        Seelyeville muck                   5
541        Rifle muck                         5
543        Markey muck                        4
544        Cathro muck                        5
552        Kerston muck                       5
852B       UL-Copaston complex, 0-8% slopes   2
857        UL-Waukegan complex, 0-3% slopes   4
857C       UL-Waukegan complex, 3-15% slopes  4
858        UL-Chetek complex, 0-3% slopes     3
858C       UL-Chetek complex, 3-15% slopes    3
859B       UL-Zimmerman complex               5
860C       UL-Hayden Kingsley complex, 3-15%  5
860D       UL-Hayden Kingsley complex, 15-25% 5
861C       UL-Kingsley complex, 3-15% slopes  5
861D       UL-Kingsley complex, 15-25% slopes 5
862        UL-Dundas complex, 1-4% slopes     5
863        UL-Lino complex, 0-3% slopes       5
896C       Mahtomedi-Kingsley complex, 3-12%  5
896D       Mahtomedi-Kingsley complex, 12-25% 5
 
Map Symbol Soil Name "T" Tons/ac/year
Map Symbol Soil Name                                          "T" Tons/ac/year
896F       Mahtomedi-Kingsley complex, 25-40%                 5
1013       Pits, quarry
1027       Udorthents, wet substratum
1029       Pits, gravel
1033       Udifulvents
1039       Urban land
1040       Udorthents
1055       Aquolls and Histosols, ponded
1813B      Lino Variant loamy fine sand, 2-6%                 5
1819F      Dorerton-Rock outcrop complex, 25-65%              2
1820F      Mahtomedi Variant-Rock outcrop complex 25-60%      5
           slopes
1821       Algansee loamy sand                                5
1827       Waukegan Variant silt loam, 0-2% slopes            3
1827B      Waukegan Variant silt loam, 2-9% slopes            3
1847       Barronett silt loam, sandy substratum              5
1848B      Sparta loamy sand, bedrock substratum, 0-6% slopes 5
 
(Prior Code, § 404) (Ord. 7462, passed 10-20-1992)
CHAPTER 153: WATER DRAINAGE
Section
Water Drainage Code
   
153.01   General purposes
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Approval of drainage site plan affecting issuance of building permit
   
153.04   Culverts
   
153.05   Fees required
   
153.06   Appeal from denial of drainage plan approval
   
153.07   Future maintenance of drainage plan on property
   
153.08   Alterations
   
153.09   Incorporated by reference
   
153.10   Violation
WATER DRAINAGE CODE
§ 153.01 GENERAL PURPOSES.
   The general purposes of this subchapter are to provide for the orderly
growth of the city and to preserve, protect, and provide for the public health
and safety and general welfare by fostering and requiring adequate water
drainage from any property to be improved within the City of Lakeland.
(Prior Code, § 507.010) (Ord. 7425, passed 1-20-1981)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The individual appointed by the city to perform building
inspection services.
   DRAINAGE SITE PLAN. The documentation and written plans submitted by any
property owner seeking to obtain a building permit containing all data and
information reasonably required by the City Engineer to demonstrate water
drainage patterns from the affected property; these plans may include aerial
photographs of the affected property and neighboring or adjacent properties,
surveys, soil tests, elevation charts or maps, landscaping plans or drawings,
and any other information reasonably required by the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 507.020) (Ord. 7425, passed 1-20-1981)
§ 153.03 APPROVAL OF DRAINAGE SITE PLAN AFFECTING ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   For all permits required under this code of ordinances, no building
permit shall be issued without the property owner or his or her designated
agent having first obtained approval in writing from the City Engineer with
regard to drainage.
   (B)   The City Engineer may require a drainage site plan prior to issuing
any opinion as to approval or disapproval of drainage from the site proposed to
be developed subject to the following:
      (1)   On a single-family residential lot and any proposed development
therefor, the City Engineer may waive the requirements for a drainage site
plan, provided that he or she finds that the residential lot after improvement
will demonstrate a reasonable plan for water drainage.
      (2)   All plats or plans for subdivision, planned unit developments,
multi-family, business, industrial, and commercial developments shall have an
approved drainage site plan prior to the approval of the plat or plans or
issuance of any building permits therefor.
   (C)   Where required, no drainage site plan shall be approved where it
cannot be demonstrated by the applicant that:
      (1)   The site drainage plan demonstrates a reasonable plan for water
drainage.
      (2)   Volumes of stormwater runoff from the property to be improved do
not exceed the volume of stormwater runoff when the property is in its natural
state, unless provisions for the excess runoff have been made in a local
stormwater retention basin.
   (D)   Stormwater or other water drainage can be accomplished from the area
to be improved without altering established water drainage patterns on abutting
or adjacent properties, or otherwise within the city and without affecting or
altering the drainage of public streets, roads, and alleys.
(Prior Code, § 507.030) (Ord. 7425, passed 1-20-1981)
§ 153.04 CULVERTS.
   Each building site utilizing an access to a public street shall have a
culvert of a diameter and specification to be determined by the City Engineer.
The driveway culverts shall include an apron on each end and be of a length
where the aprons are flush with the side slopes of the driveway. The culvert is
to be placed at an elevation consistent with the drainage plan. The property
owner will be responsible for the proper installation and maintenance of the
driveway culvert.
(Prior Code, § 507.040) (Ord. 7425, passed 1-20-1981; Am. Ord. 7428, passed 10-
20-1981)
§ 153.05 FEES REQUIRED.
   All applicants submitting drainage site plans, in addition to those fees set
forth in §
150.01, shall also pay to the city an amount equal to the fees charged by the
City Engineer for his or her inspection and review of any drainage site plan.
(Prior Code, § 507.050) (Ord. 7425, passed 1-20-1981)
§ 153.06 APPEAL FROM DENIAL OF DRAINAGE PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   Any applicant may appeal to the City Council to review a denial for
the proposed site drainage plan as submitted by the applicant.
   (B)   Appeal may be taken by filing with the City Clerk, within 20 days
after applicant has received a written denial of approval of the applicant's
proposed site drainage plan, the following:
      (1)   A written notice of appeal;
      (2)   Fifteen copies of the proposed drainage site plan; and
      (3)   A verification by the applicant that the engineer's fees for
reviewing the drainage site plan have been paid in full.
   (C)   No fee shall be charged by the City Clerk for the appeal.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall place the matter on the agenda for the next month
next following the filing of the written notice of appeal.
   (E)   The City Council may reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may
modify the decision or determination of the City Engineer and may direct the
issuance of the building permit.
(Prior Code, § 507.060) (Ord. 7425, passed 1-20-1981)
§ 153.07 FUTURE MAINTENANCE OF DRAINAGE PLAN ON PROPERTY.
   Whenever the City Engineer has given written recommendations for any
drainage site plan, the property owner or applicant for the building permit
shall warrant and provide to the city, on a form prescribed and approved by the
City Council, a written agreement of the property owner within the city
guaranteeing that the property owner, his or her successors, heirs, and assigns
shall implement and maintain the drainage site plan as approved by the city and
shall not alter by act, omission, or otherwise the drainage plan without the
prior written consent of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 507.070) (Ord. 7425, passed 1-20-1981)
§ 153.08 ALTERATIONS.
   No person shall make any change, alteration, or otherwise obstruct or
interfere with any drainage ditch or culvert upon private property which has
been approved by the city without first having obtained prior approval of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 507.080) (Ord. 7425, passed 1-20-1981)
§ 153.09 INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions and standards as provided for in the Best Management
Practices for Minnesota protecting water quality in urban areas as promulgated
by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and published October of 1989 as well
as the Nationwide Urban Runoff Program Standards, as originally promulgated by
the Environmental Protection Agency of the United States Government in 1983 are
hereby adopted by reference and shall be reviewed and implemented with regard
to any stormwater drainage program or plan or drainage site plan submitted to
the city for review pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 507.090) (Ord. 7486, passed 2-15-2000)
§ 153.10 VIOLATION.
   Violation of any provision of this subchapter is declared to be a nuisance
affecting the public health, safety, and general welfare and shall be
prohibited as specified in
Chapter 93 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 507.110) (Ord. 7425, passed 1-20-1981)
CHAPTER 154: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Statutory authorization
   
154.02   Findings of fact
   
154.03   Statement of purpose
   
154.04   Lands to which chapter applies
   
154.05   Establishment of official zoning map
   
154.06   Regulatory flood protection elevation
   
154.07   Interpretation
   
154.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.09   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.10   Severability
   
154.11   Definitions
   
154.12   Annexations
District Regulations
   
154.25   Establishment of zoning districts
   
154.26   Floodway District (FW)
   
154.27   Flood Fringe District (FF)
   
154.28   Subdivisions
   
154.29   Public utilities, railroads, roads, and bridges
   
154.30   Recreational vehicles
   
154.31   New mobile home parks
Administration
   
154.45   Zoning Administrator
   
154.46   Permit requirements
   
154.47   Board of Adjustment
   
154.48   Conditional uses
   
154.49   Nonconforming uses
   
154.50   Amendments
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the State of Minnesota has, in M.S. Chs. 103F and 462,
delegated the responsibility to local government units to adopt regulations
designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City Council of Lakeland,
Minnesota does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the City of Lakeland, Minnesota, are subject
to periodic inundation which results in potential loss of life, loss of
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures or flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards.  This chapter is based upon a
reasonable method of analyzing flood hazards which is consistent with the
standards established by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources.
   (C)   National Flood Insurance Program compliance. This chapter is adopted
to comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood Insurance
Program codified as 44 C.F.R. Parts 59-78, as amended, so as to maintain the
community’s eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
154.02(A) by provisions contained herein.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.04 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city
shown on the official Zoning Map and/or the attachments thereto as being
located within the boundaries of the floodway and flood fringe districts.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The official Zoning Map together with all materials attached thereto is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The
attached material shall include the flood insurance study for Washington
County, Minnesota and Incorporated Areas and flood insurance rate map panels
therein numbered 27163C0356E, 27163C0357E, 27163C0358E, 27163C0359E,
27163C0366E and 27163C0367E, all dated February 3, 2010 and prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The official Zoning Map shall be on file
in the Office of the City Clerk and in the Office of the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.06 REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   The regulatory flood protection elevation shall be an elevation no lower
than one foot above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in
flood elevation caused by encroachments on the flood plain that result from
designation of a floodway.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.07 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the City Council and shall not be deemed a limitation or
repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
   (B)   The boundaries of the zoning districts shall be determined by scaling
distances on the official Zoning Map. Where interpretation is needed as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the district as shown on the official
Zoning Map, as for example where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions and there is a formal appeal of the
decision of the Zoning Administrator, the Board of Adjustment shall make the
necessary interpretation. All decisions will be based on elevations on the
regional (100-year) flood profile, the ground elevations that existed on the
site at the time the community adopted its initial floodplain ordinance or on
the date of the first National Flood Insurance Program map showing the area
within the 100-year floodplain if earlier, and other available technical data.
Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Board of Adjustment and to
submit technical evidence.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.08 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby
repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.09 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not imply that areas outside the flood plain districts or
land uses permitted within such districts will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of the
depth of excavation below ground level.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The City Council shall sit as a Board of Adjustment to
review and address any appeal to the provisions of this chapter.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A specific type of structure or land use listed in the
official control that may be allowed but only after an in-depth review
procedure and with appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in the
official zoning controls or building codes and upon a finding that:
      (1)   Certain conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist; and
      (2)   The structure and/or land use conform to the comprehensive land use
plan if one exists and are compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that flood plain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
   FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the stage
of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry areas.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the flood plain outside of the floodway. FLOOD
FRINGE is synonymous with the term “floodway fringe” used in the Flood
Insurance Study for Flood Insurance Study for Washington County, Minnesota and
Incorporated Areas.
   FLOOD PLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOOD PROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes, or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining flood plain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. MANUFACTURED HOME
does not include the term “recreational vehicle.”
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across, or projecting
into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory flood plain which may impede,
retard, or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by
catching or collecting debris carried by such water.
   PRINCIPAL USE OR STRUCTURE. All uses or structures that are not accessory
uses or structures.
   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by a natural or man-made obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge crossings
would most typically constitute a REACH.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. For the
purposes of this chapter, the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall be synonymous
with the term travel trailer/travel vehicle.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term “base flood”
used in a flood insurance study.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. An elevation no lower than one foot
above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation
caused by encroachments on the flood plain that result from designation of a
floodway.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, recreational
vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in §
154.30 and other similar items.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the
“start of construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures that
have incurred “substantial damage,” regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of an “historic structure,” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an
“historic structure.” For the purpose of this chapter, “historic structure”
shall be as defined in 44 C.F.R. Part 59.1.
   VARIANCE. A modification of a specific permitted development standard
required in an official control including this chapter to allow an alternative
development standard not stated as acceptable in the official control, but only
as applied to a particular property for the purpose of alleviating a hardship,
practical difficulty or unique circumstance as defined and elaborated upon in a
community’s respective planning and zoning enabling legislation.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.12 ANNEXATIONS.
   The flood insurance rate map panels adopted by reference into §
154.05 above may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the corporate
boundaries of the city at the time of adoption of this chapter. If any of these
floodplain land areas are annexed into the city after the date of adoption of
this chapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter immediately upon the date of annexation into the
city.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.25 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Districts.
      (1)   Floodway district. For the St. Croix River, the floodway district
shall include those areas designated as Zone AE on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
panels adopted in §
154.05 that are below the ordinary high water level as defined in M.S. §
103G.005, Subd. 14.
      (2)   Flood fringe district. For the St. Croix River, the flood fringe
district shall include those areas designated as Zone AE on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map panels adopted in §
154.05 that are below the 100-year flood elevation but above the ordinary high
water level as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, Subd. 14.
   (B)   Compliance. No new structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be constructed, located, extended, converted, or structurally
altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this
chapter. Within the floodway and flood fringe districts, all uses not listed as
permitted uses or conditional uses in §§
154.26 and
154.27 that follow, respectively, shall be prohibited. In addition, a caution
is provided here that:
      (1)   Certain travel trailers and travel vehicles are subject to the
general provisions of this chapter and specifically §
154.30;
      (2)   Modifications, additions, structural alterations, normal
maintenance and repair, or repair after damage to existing nonconforming
structures and nonconforming uses of structures or land are regulated by the
general provisions of this chapter and specifically §
154.49; and
      (3)   As-built elevations for elevated or flood proofed structures must
be certified by ground surveys and flood proofing techniques must be designed
and certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as specified
in the general provisions of this chapter and specifically as stated in §
154.46.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.26 FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW).
   The permitted and conditional uses listed below are only allowable in the
floodway if not prohibited by any other underlying zoning district
classifications of the city and if not prohibited by any applicable state or
federal law.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   General farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture, and wild crop harvesting.
      (2)   Boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature
preserves, and fishing areas.
      (3)   Residential lawns, gardens and play areas.
   (B)   Standards for floodway permitted uses.
      (1)   The use shall have a low flood damage potential.
      (2)   The use shall be permissible in the underlying zoning district if
one exists.
      (3)   The use shall not obstruct flood flows or increase flood elevations
and shall not involve structures, fill, obstructions, excavations or storage of
materials or equipment.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Extraction and storage of sand, gravel, and other materials.
      (2)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines, and
pipelines.
      (3)   Placement of fill.
   (D)   Standards for floodway conditional uses.
      (1)   All uses.  No fill (including fill for roads and levees), deposit,
obstruction, or other uses may be allowed as a conditional use that will cause
any increase in the stage of the 100-year or regional flood or cause an
increase in flood damages in the reach or reaches affected.
      (2)   All floodway conditional uses shall be subject to the procedures
and standards contained in §
154.48.
      (3)   The conditional use shall be permissible in the underlying zoning
district if one exists.
      (4)   Fill.
         (a)   Fill, dredge spoil, and all other similar materials deposited or
stored in the flood plain shall be protected from erosion by vegetative cover,
mulching, riprap or other acceptable method.
         (b)   Dredge spoil sites and sand and gravel operations shall not be
allowed in the floodway unless a long-term site development plan is submitted
which includes an erosion/sedimentation prevention element to the plan.
         (c)   As an alternative, and consistent with division (D)(4)(b)
immediately above, dredge spoil disposal and sand and gravel operations may
allow temporary, on-site storage of fill or other materials which would have
caused an increase to the stage of the 100-year or regional flood but only
after the City Council has received an appropriate plan which assures the
removal of the materials from the floodway based upon the flood warning time
available. The conditional use permit must be title registered with the
property in the Office of the County Recorder.
      (5)   Storage of materials and equipment. Storage of other materials or
equipment may be allowed if readily removable from the area within the time
available after a flood warning and in accordance with a plan approved by the
City Council. The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited.
      (6)   Community-wide structural works for flood control intended to
remove areas from the regulatory flood plain shall not be allowed in the
floodway.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.27 FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (FF).
   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall be those uses of land or
structures listed as permitted uses in the underlying zoning use district(s).
If no pre-existing, underlying zoning use districts exist, then any residential
or non residential structure or use of a structure or land shall be a permitted
use in the flood fringe district provided such use does not constitute a public
nuisance. All permitted uses shall comply with the standards for flood fringe
district “permitted uses” listed in division (B) of this section and the
“Standards for all Flood Fringe Uses” listed in division (E) of this section.
   (B)   Standards for flood fringe permitted uses.
      (1)   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated on
fill so that the lowest floor including basement floor is at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for
structures shall be no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood
protection elevation and the fill shall extend at such elevation at least 15
feet beyond the outside limits of the structure erected thereon.
      (2)   As an alternative to elevation on fill, accessory structures that
constitute a minimal investment and that do not exceed 500 square feet at its
largest projection may be flood proofed in accordance with the following
standards:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be designed for human habitation;
and
         (b)   Accessory structures shall be elevated on fill or structurally
dry flood proofed in accordance with the FP-1 or FP-2 flood proofing
classifications in the State Building Code. As an alternative, an accessory
structure may be flood proofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 flood proofing
classification in the State Building Code and, for a detached garage, the
detached garage must be used solely for parking of vehicles and limited
storage. Flood proofed accessory structures must meet the following additional
standards:
            1.   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure and shall be designed
to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls;
            2.   Any mechanical and utility equipment in a structure must be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or properly
flood proofed; and
            3.   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure, there
must be a minimum of two “automatic” openings in the outside walls of the
structure having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding. There must be openings on at
least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings must be no
higher than one foot above the lowest adjacent grade to the structure. Using
human intervention to open a garage door prior to flooding will not satisfy
this requirement for automatic openings.
      (3)   The storage of any materials or equipment shall be elevated on fill
to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (4)   The provisions of division (E) of this section shall apply.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Any structure that is not elevated on fill or flood
proofed in accordance with divisions (B)(1) and (2) of this section and/or any
use of land that does not comply with the standards in divisions (B)(3) and (4)
of this section shall only be allowable as a conditional use. An application
for a conditional use shall be subject to the standards and criteria and
evaluation procedures specified in divisions (D) and (E) of this section and §
154.48.
   (D)   Standards for flood fringe conditional uses.
      (1)   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill may be
utilized to elevate a structure’s lowest floor above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. These alternative methods may include the use of stilts,
pilings, parallel walls, and the like, or above-grade, enclosed areas such as
crawl spaces or tuck under garages. The base or floor of an enclosed area shall
be considered above-grade and not a structure’s basement or lowest floor if: 1)
the enclosed area is above-grade on at least one side of the structure; 2) it
is designed to internally flood and is constructed with flood resistant
materials; and 3) it is used solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage. The above-noted alternative elevation methods are subject to the
following additional standards.
         (a)   Design and certification. The structure’s design and as-built
condition must be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
as being in compliance with the general design standards of the State Building
Code and, specifically, that all electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities must be at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation or be designed to prevent flood water
from entering or accumulating within these components during times of flooding.
         (b)   Specific standards for above-grade, enclosed areas. Above-grade,
fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages must be
designed to internally flood and the design plans must stipulate:
            1.   A minimum area of openings in the walls where internal
flooding is to be used as a flood proofing technique. There shall be a minimum
of two openings on at least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all
openings shall be no higher than one-foot above grade. The automatic openings
shall have a minimum net area of not less than one square inch for every square
foot of enclosed area subject to flooding unless a registered professional
engineer or architect certifies that a smaller net area would suffice. The
automatic openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters without any form of human intervention; and
            2.   That the enclosed area will be designed of flood resistant
materials in accordance with the FP-3 or FP-4 classifications in the State
Building Code and shall be used solely for building access, parking of vehicles
or storage.
      (2)   Basements, as defined by §
154.11, shall be subject to the following:
         (a)   Residential basement construction shall not be allowed below the
regulatory flood protection elevation; and
         (b)   Non-residential basements may be allowed below the regulatory
flood protection elevation provided the basement is structurally dry flood
proofed in accordance with§
154.27(D)(3).
      (3)   All areas of non residential structures including basements to be
placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be flood proofed
in accordance with the structurally dry flood proofing classifications in the
State Building Code. Structurally dry flood proofing must meet the FP-1 or FP-
2 flood proofing classification in the State Building Code and this shall
require making the structure watertight with the walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of
buoyancy. Structures flood proofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 classification shall not
be permitted.
      (4)   Storage of materials and equipment.
         (a)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited.
         (b)   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
and in accordance with a plan approved by the City Council.
      (5)   The provisions of §
154.27(E) shall also apply.
   (E)   Standards for all flood fringe uses.
      (1)   Commercial uses. Accessory land uses, such as yards, railroad
tracks, and parking lots may be at elevations lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation. However, a permit for such facilities to be used by the
employees or the general public shall not be granted in the absence of a flood
warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation if the area would be
inundated to a depth and velocity such that when multiplying the depth (in
feet) times velocity (in feet per second) the product number exceeds four upon
occurrence of the regional flood.
      (2)   Manufacturing and industrial uses. Measures shall be taken to
minimize interference with normal plant operations especially along streams
having protracted flood durations. Certain accessory
land uses such as yards and parking lots may be at lower elevations subject to
requirements set out in division (E)(1) of this section. In considering permit
applications, due consideration shall be given to needs of an industry whose
business requires that it be located in flood plain areas.
      (3)   Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes shall be properly
protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable method.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for
removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain structures
properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation - FEMA’s
requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of
special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
      (4)   Flood plain developments shall not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining flood plain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system where a floodway or other encroachment limit has not been
specified on the official Zoning Map.
      (5)   Standards for recreational vehicles are contained in §
154.30.
      (6)   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.28 SUBDIVISIONS.
Note: This section is not intended as a substitute for a comprehensive city or
county subdivision ordinance. It can, however, be used as an interim control
until the comprehensive subdivision ordinance can be amended to include
necessary flood plain management provisions.
   (A)   Review criteria. No land shall be subdivided which is unsuitable for
the reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment
facilities. All lots within the flood plain districts shall be able to contain
a building site outside of the floodway district at or above the regulatory
flood protection elevation. All subdivisions shall have water and sewage
treatment facilities that comply with the provisions of this chapter and have
road access both to the subdivision and to the individual building sites no
lower than two feet below the regulatory flood protection elevation. For all
subdivisions in the flood plain, the floodway and flood fringe district
boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation and the required
elevation of all access roads shall be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
   (B)   Removal of special flood hazard area designation. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for removing the
special flood hazard area designation for certain structures properly elevated
on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s requirements incorporate
specific fill compaction and side slope protection standards for multi-
structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should be investigated
prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of special flood hazard
area designation will be requested.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.29 PUBLIC UTILITIES, RAILROADS, ROADS, AND BRIDGES.
   (A)   Public utilities. All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, sewer, and water supply systems to be located in the flood plain
shall be flood proofed in accordance with the State Building Code or elevated
to above the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (B)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads, and bridges
to be located within the flood plain shall comply with §§
154.26 and
154.27. Elevation to the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be
provided where failure or interruption of these transportation facilities would
result in danger to the public health or safety or where such facilities are
essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or auxiliary roads or
railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where failure or interruption
of transportation services would not endanger the public health or safety.
   (C)   On-site sewage treatment and water supply systems. Where public
utilities are not provided:
      (1)   On-site water supply systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
      (2)   New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into flood waters and they shall not be subject
to impairment or contamination during times of flooding. Any sewage treatment
system designed in accordance with the state’s current statewide standards for
on-site sewage treatment systems shall be determined to be in compliance with
this section.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.30 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the exemption criteria specified in
division (A) below shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter and as
specifically spelled out in divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (A)   Exemption. Recreational vehicles are exempt from the provisions of
this chapter if they are placed in any of the areas listed in division (B)
below and further they meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Have current licenses required for highway use;
      (2)   Are highway ready meaning on wheels or the internal jacking system,
are attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities commonly used
in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks and the recreational vehicle has
no permanent structural type additions attached to it; and
      (3)   The recreational vehicle and associated use must be permissible in
any pre-existing, underlying zoning use district.
   (B)   Areas exempted for placement of recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Individual lots or parcels of record.
      (2)   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds.
      (3)   Existing condominium type associations.
   (C)   Recreational vehicles exempted in division (A) of this section lose
this exemption when development occurs on the parcel exceeding $500 for a
structural addition to the recreational vehicle or exceeding $500 for an
accessory structure such as a garage or storage building. The recreational
vehicle and all additions and accessory structures will then be treated as a
new structure and shall be subject to the elevation/flood proofing requirements
and the use of land restrictions specified in §§
154.26 and
154.27. There shall be no development or improvement on the parcel or
attachment to the recreational vehicle that hinders the removal of the
recreational vehicle to a flood free location should flooding occur.
   (D)   New commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds and new
residential type subdivisions and condominium associations and the expansion of
any existing similar use exceeding five units or dwelling sites shall be
subject to the following:
      (1)   Any new or replacement recreational vehicle will be allowed in the
floodway or flood fringe districts provided said recreational vehicle and its
contents are placed on fill above the regulatory flood protection elevation and
proper elevated road access to the site exists in accordance with §
154.27(E)(1). No fill placed in the floodway to meet the requirements of this
section shall increase flood stages of the 100-year or regional flood; and
      (2)   All new or replacement recreational vehicles not meeting the
criteria of division (D)(1) of this section may, as an alternative, be allowed
as a conditional use if in accordance with the following provisions and the
provisions of §
154.48. The applicant must submit an emergency plan for the safe evacuation of
all vehicles and people during the 100 year flood. The plan shall be prepared
by a registered engineer or other qualified individual, shall demonstrate that
adequate time and personnel exist to carry out the evacuation, and shall
demonstrate the provisions of divisions (A)(1) and (2) of this section will be
met. All attendant sewage and water facilities for new or replacement
recreational vehicles must be protected or constructed so as to not be impaired
or contaminated during times of flooding in accordance with §
154.29(C).
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.31 NEW MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   The floodway and flood fringe districts lie within the St. Croix River
Overlay District and the Shoreland Management Overlay District. Sections
159.046 and
159.047 of the Zoning Regulations refer to
Chapter 155 for permitted uses in the St. Croix River Overlay District and the
Lake and Shoreland Management Overlay District. Mobile home parks are
prohibited in these districts under §
155.029. Accordingly, new mobile home parks are prohibited within the both the
floodway (FW) and flood Fringe (FF) districts.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.45 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   A zoning administrator or other official designated by the City Council
shall administer and enforce this chapter. If the Zoning Administrator finds a
violation of the provisions of this chapter the Zoning Administrator shall
notify the person responsible for such violation in accordance with the
procedures stated in §
154.99.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.46 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter shall be secured prior to the
erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance
and repair), or alteration of any building, structure, or portion thereof;
prior to the use or change of use of a building, structure, or land; prior to
the construction of a dam, fence, or on-site septic system; prior to the change
or extension of a nonconforming use; prior to the repair of a structure that
has been damaged by flood, fire, tornado, or any other source; and prior to the
placement of fill, excavation of materials, or the storage of materials or
equipment within the flood plain.
   (B)   Application for permit. Application for a permit shall be made in
duplicate to the Zoning Administrator on forms furnished by the Zoning
Administrator and shall include the following where applicable: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the lot; existing or proposed structures, fill, or storage of
materials; and the location of the foregoing in relation to the stream channel.
   (C)   State and federal permits. Prior to granting a permit or processing an
application for a conditional use permit or variance, the Zoning Administrator
shall determine that the applicant has obtained all necessary state and federal
permits.
   (D)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered, or nonconforming
use. It shall be unlawful to use, occupy, or permit the use or occupancy of any
building or premises or part thereof hereafter created, erected, changed,
converted, altered, or enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of
zoning compliance shall have been issued by the Zoning Administrator stating
that the use of the building or land conforms to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (E)   Construction and use to be as provided on applications, plans,
permits, variances and certificates of zoning compliance. Permits, conditional
use permits, or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the basis of
approved plans and applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and
construction set forth in such approved plans and applications, and no other
use, arrangement, or construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at
variance with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter, and
punishable as provided by §
154.99.
   (F)   Certification. The applicant shall be required to submit certification
by a registered professional engineer, registered architect, or registered land
surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were accomplished in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Flood proofing measures shall
be certified by a registered professional engineer or registered architect.
   (G)   Record of first floor elevation. The Zoning Administrator shall
maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new structures and alterations or additions to existing structures in the
flood plain. The Zoning Administrator shall also maintain a record of the
elevation to which structures or alterations and additions to structures are
flood proofed.
   (H)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. The Zoning Administrator
shall notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the Commissioner
of the Department of Natural Resources prior to the community authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse. If the applicant has applied for a
permit to work in the beds of public waters pursuant to M.S. Ch. 103G, this
shall suffice as adequate notice to the Commissioner of Natural Resources. A
copy of the notification shall also be submitted to the Chicago Regional Office
of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   (I)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease the
100-year flood elevation.  As soon as is practicable, but not later than six
months after the date such supporting information becomes available, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the changes
by submitting a copy of said technical or scientific data.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.47 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Rules. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for the conduct of
business and may exercise all of the powers conferred on such boards by state
law.
   (B)   Administrative review. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide
appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision,
or determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Variances.  The Board of Adjustment may authorize upon appeal in
specific cases such relief or variance from the terms of this chapter as will
not be contrary to the public interest and only for those circumstances such as
hardship, practical difficulties or circumstances unique to the property under
consideration, as provided for in the respective enabling legislation for
planning and zoning for cities or counties as appropriate. In the granting of
such variance, the Board of Adjustment shall clearly identify in writing the
specific conditions that existed consistent with the criteria specified in this
chapter, any other zoning regulations in the community, and in the respective
enabling legislation that justified the granting of the variance. No variance
shall have the effect of allowing in any district uses prohibited in that
district, permit a lower degree of flood protection than the regulatory flood
protection elevation for the particular area, or permit standards lower than
those required by state law. The following additional variance criteria of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency must be satisfied:
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued by a community within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result;
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued by a community upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances;
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
   (D)   Hearings.  Upon filing with the Board of Adjustment of an appeal from
a decision of the Zoning Administrator, or an application for a variance, the
Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for a hearing and give due
notice to the parties in interest as specified by law. The Board of Adjustment
shall submit by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources a copy of the
application for proposed variances sufficiently in advance so that the
Commissioner will receive at least ten days notice of the hearing.
   (E)   Decisions. The Board of Adjustment shall make a final decision on such
appeal or variance within 60 days. In passing upon an appeal, the Board of
Adjustment may, so long as such action is in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning Administrator or other
public official. It shall make its decision in writing setting forth the
findings of fact and the reasons for its decisions. In granting a variance the
Board of Adjustment may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards such as
those specified in §
154.48(F), which are in conformity with the purposes of this chapter.
Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter punishable under §
154.99. A copy of all decisions granting variances shall be forwarded by mail
to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of such action.
   (F)   Appeals. Appeals from any decision of the Board of Adjustment may be
made, and as specified in this community’s official controls and also by
Minnesota Statutes.
   (G)   Flood insurance notice and record keeping. 
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant for a variance
that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the 100-year or regional flood level
increases risks to life and property.
      (2)    Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all
variance actions. A community shall maintain a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance, and report such variances issued in
its annual or biennial report submitted to the Administrator of the National
Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.48 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The City Council shall hear and decide applications for conditional uses
permissible under this chapter. Applications shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator who shall forward the application to the City Council for review
and final decision.
   (A)   Hearings. Upon filing with the Zoning Administrator an application for
a conditional use permit, the Zoning Administrator shall submit by mail to the
Commissioner of Natural Resources a copy of the application for proposed
conditional use sufficiently in advance so that the Commissioner will receive
at least ten days notice of the hearing.
   (B)   Decisions. The City Council shall make a final decision on a
conditional use within 60 days. In granting a conditional use permit the City
Council shall prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards, in addition to
those specified in division (F) of this section, which are in conformity with
the purposes of this chapter. Violations of such conditions and safeguards,
when made a part of the terms under which the conditional use permit is
granted, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter punishable under §
154.99. A copy of all decisions granting conditional use permits shall be
forwarded by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of
such action.
   (C)   Procedures to be followed by the City Council in passing on
conditional use permit applications within all flood plain districts.
      (1)   Require the applicant to furnish such of the following information
and additional information as deemed necessary by the City Council for
determining the suitability of the particular site for the proposed use:
         (a)   Plans in triplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevation of the lot, existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, flood proofing measures, and the relationship of the
above to the location of the stream channel; and
         (b)   Specifications for building construction and materials, flood
proofing, filling, dredging, grading, channel improvement, storage of
materials, water supply and sanitary facilities.
      (2)   Transmit one copy of the information described in division (C)(1)
of this section to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for
technical assistance, where necessary, in evaluating the proposed project in
relation to flood heights and velocities, the seriousness of flood damage to
the use, the adequacy of the plans for protection, and other technical matters.
      (3)   Based upon the technical evaluation of the designated engineer or
expert, the City Council shall determine the specific flood hazard at the site
and evaluate the suitability of the proposed use in relation to the flood
hazard.
   (D)   Factors upon which the decision of the City Council shall be based. In
passing upon conditional use applications, the City Council shall consider all
relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others or they may block bridges, culverts or other
hydraulic structures;
      (3)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions;
      (4)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (5)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (6)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use;
      (8)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
      (9)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
flood plain management program for the area;
      (10)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
      (11)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site; and
      (12)   Such other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this
chapter.
   (E)   Time for acting on application. The City Council shall act on an
application in the manner described above within 60 days from receiving the
application, except that where additional information is required pursuant to
division (C) of this section. The City Council shall render a written decision
within 60 days from the receipt of such additional information.
   (F)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits.  Upon consideration of
the factors listed above and the purpose of this chapter, the City Council
shall attach such conditions to the granting of conditional use permits as it
deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter. Such conditions may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Modification of waste treatment and water supply facilities;
      (2)   Limitations on period of use, occupancy, and operation;
      (3)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions;
      (4)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees, and other protective measures; and
      (5)   Flood proofing measures, in accordance with the State Building Code
and this chapter. The applicant shall submit a plan or document certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect that the flood proofing measures
are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation and associated
flood factors for the particular area.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.49 NONCONFORMING USES.
   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this chapter but which is not in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions. Historic structures, as defined in §
154.11, shall be subject to the provisions of divisions (A) through (E) of this
section.
   (A)   No such use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged, or altered in a way
that increases its nonconformity.
   (B)   Any structural alteration or addition to a nonconforming structure or
nonconforming use which would result in increasing the flood damage potential
of that structure or use shall be protected to the Regulatory Flood Protection
Elevation in accordance with any of the elevation on fill or flood proofing
techniques (i.e., FP-1 thru FP-4 floodproofing classifications) allowable in
the State Building Code, except as further restricted in divisions (C) and (E)
of this section.
   (C)   If any nonconforming use is discontinued for l2 consecutive months,
any future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The
Assessor shall notify the Zoning Administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses that have been discontinued for a period of l2 months.
   (D)   If any nonconforming use or structure is substantially damaged, as
defined in §
154.11, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter. The applicable provisions for establishing new uses or new
structures in §§
154.26 and
154.27 will apply depending upon whether the use or structure is in the
floodway or flood fringe district, respectively.
   (E)   If a substantial improvement occurs, as defined in §
154.11, from any combination of a building addition to the outside dimensions
of the existing building or a rehabilitation, reconstruction, alteration, or
other improvement to the inside dimensions of an existing nonconforming
building, then the building addition and the existing nonconforming building
must meet the requirements of §
154.26 or §
154.27 for new structures, depending upon whether the structure is in the
floodway or flood fringe district, respectively.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.50 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The flood plain designation on the official Zoning Map shall not be
removed from flood plain areas unless it can be shown that the designation is
in error or that the area has been filled to or above the elevation of the
regulatory flood protection elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the
flood plain. Special exceptions to this rule may be permitted by the
Commissioner of Natural Resources if he or she determines that, through other
measures, lands are adequately protected for the intended use.
   (B)   All amendments to this chapter, including amendments to the official
Zoning Map, must be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of Natural
Resources prior to adoption. Changes in the official Zoning Map must meet the
Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) technical conditions and criteria
and must receive prior FEMA approval before adoption. The Commissioner of
Natural Resources must be given ten days written notice of all hearings to
consider an amendment to this chapter and the notice shall include a draft of
the ordinance amendment or technical study under consideration.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or conditional uses) shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by law.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. Such actions
may include but are not limited to:
      (1)   In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the Zoning
Administrator and local government may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to it including but not limited to prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a
request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The community must act in good faith to
enforce these official controls and to correct ordinance violations to the
extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program;
      (2)   When an ordinance violation is either discovered by or brought to
the attention of the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall
immediately investigate the situation and document the nature and extent of the
violation of the official control. As soon as is reasonably possible, this
information will be submitted to the appropriate Department of Natural
Resources’ and Federal Emergency Management Agency Regional Office along with
the community’s plan of action to correct the violation to the degree possible;
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this chapter and all other official controls and the nature and
extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If the structure and/or
use is under construction or development, the Zoning Administrator may order
the construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted by the community. If the construction or development is
already completed, then the Zoning Administrator may either:
         (a)   Issue an order identifying the corrective actions that must be
made within a specified time period to bring the use or structure into
compliance with the official controls; or
         (b)   Notify the responsible party to apply for an after-the-fact
permit/development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed 30-
days; and
      (4)   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
Zoning Administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day
that lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this chapter and shall
be prosecuted accordingly. The Zoning Administrator shall also upon the lapse
of the specified response period notify the landowner to restore the land to
the condition which existed prior to the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 7518, passed 12-23-2009)
CHAPTER 155: LOWER ST. CROIX RIVER BLUFFLAND AND SHORELAND MANAGEMENT
REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Intent and purpose
   
155.003   Separability: particular property; business license
   
155.004   Definitions
District Provisions
   
155.015   Designation of districts
   
155.016   Minimum district dimensional requirements
Uses Within the St. Croix Riverway
   
155.025   Purpose
   
155.026   Permitted uses
   
155.027   Site preservation
   
155.028   Conditional uses
   
155.029   Prohibited uses
   
155.030   Nonconforming uses
General Regulations
   
155.040   Substandard structures
   
155.041   Substandard lots
   
155.042   Sewage disposal
   
155.043   Color of structures
   
155.044   Marinas
   
155.045   Alterations in public waters
   
155.046   Transmission services
   
155.047   Public roads
Subdivisions
   
155.060   Land suitability
   
155.061   Preliminary plans
   
155.062   Planned cluster developments
Administration
   
155.075   Administrative procedure
   
155.076   Certification by the Commissioner of Natural Resources
   
155.077   Forwarding of a final decision
   
155.078   Permit process
   
155.079   Variances
   
155.080   Requirements of the applicant for a public hearing
   
155.081   Factors to be considered
   
155.082   Enforcement
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the Lower St. Croix
River Bluffland and Shoreland Management Ordinance; except as referred to
herein, where it shall be known as "this chapter."
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 101)
§ 155.002 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of:
   (A)   Designating suitable land use districts along the bluffland and
shoreland of Lower St. Croix River;
   (B)   Regulating the area of a lot, and the length of bluffland and water
frontage suitable for building sites;
   (C)   Regulating the setback of structures and sanitary waste treatment
facilities from blufflines to protect the existing and/or natural scenic
values, vegetation, soils, water, and bedrock from disruption by man-made
structures or facilities;
   (D)   Regulating the setback of structures and sanitary waste treatment
facilities from shorelines to protect the natural scenic value, floodplain, and
water quality;
   (E)   Regulating alterations of the natural vegetation and topography; and
   (F)   Conserving and protecting the natural scenic values and resources of
the river valley and maintaining a high standard of environmental quality to
comply with Minnesota Department of Natural Resources Standards and Criteria
for the Lower St. Croix National Scenic Riverway (NR 2200-2202).
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 202)
§ 155.003 SEPARABILITY: PARTICULAR PROPERTY; BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any portion of this chapter to a particular property, building,
or other structure, that judgment shall not affect the application of the
provision to any other property, building, or structure not specifically
included in the judgment.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 902.03)
   (B)   Nothing contained in this chapter repeals or amends any ordinance
requiring a permit or license to engage in any business or occupation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 902.04)
§ 155.004 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Construction.
      (1)   In the event of conflicting provisions in the text of this chapter,
and/or other ordinances, the more restrictive provision shall apply. The City
Zoning Administrator shall determine which is more "restrictive" and appeals
from such determination may be made in the manner provided herein.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 301.01)
      (2)   Words used in the present tense include the past and future tense;
the singular number includes the plural and the plural includes the singular;
the word "shall" is mandatory, the word "may" is permissive.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 301.02)
      (3)   Unless otherwise specified, all distances shall be measured
horizontally.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 301.03)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use subordinate to and serving the principal use on the
same lot and customarily incidental thereto, such as vegetative cutting and
grading and filling.
      APPURTENANCE. A structure subordinate to and serving the principal
structure on the same lot and customarily incidental thereto such as garages,
decks, essential services, signs, docks, and stairways and lifts, except that
APPURTENANCE does not include private water supply and sewage and waste
disposal systems below the ground.
      BLUFFLINE. A line along the top of a slope connecting the points at which
the slope, proceeding away from the river or adjoining watershed channel,
becomes less than 12% and it only includes slopes greater than 12% visible from
the river or any watercourse tributary to the river. The location of the
BLUFFLINE for any particular property shall be certified by a registered land
surveyor or the Zoning Administrator. More than 1 BLUFFLINE may be encountered
proceeding away from the river or adjoining watershed channel. All setbacks
required herein shall be applicable to each BLUFFLINE.
      BUILDING LINE. A line measured across the width of the lot at the point
where the principal structure is placed in accordance with setback provisions.
      CHANNEL.  A natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent with a
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct flowing water either continuously
or periodically.
      DWELLING UNIT. A residential accommodation which is arranged, designed,
used, or intended for use exclusively as living quarters for 1 family.
      HARBOR. A portion of a body of water along or landward of the natural
shoreline deep enough for recreational watercraft navigation, and so situated
with respect to shoreline features as to provide protection from winds, waves,
ice and currents. NATURAL HARBORS consist of bays and estuaries, while
ARTIFICIAL HARBORS are constructed by dredging.
      MARINA. An area of concentrated small craft mooring, where ancillary
facilities may be provided for some or all of such services as fueling, sewage
pumpout, boat launching, boat repair, and boat storage; except that MARINA does
not mean temporary docks associated with riparian residential development if
the mooring area is of a size not to exceed the resource limitations of the
site and the needs of the residents of the development.
      NONCONFORMING USE. Any use of land which does not conform to the use
restrictions of a particular zoning district. This should not be confused with
substandard dimensions of a conforming use.
      ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK. A mark delineating the highest water level
which has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence
upon the landscape. The ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK is commonly that point where
the natural vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly
terrestrial. In areas where the ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK is not evident,
setback shall be measured from the stream bank of the following water bodies
that have permanent flow or open water: the main channel, adjoining side
channels, backwaters, and sloughs.
      RIVERWAY BOUNDARY. A legally described line delineating the landward
extent of the St. Croix Riverway.
      SCENIC EASEMENT. An interest in land, less than fee title, that limits
the use of the land for the purpose of protecting the scenic, recreational, and
natural characteristics of area in the St. Croix Riverway. Unless otherwise
expressly and specifically provided by mutual agreement of the parties, the
easement shall be: perpetually held for the benefit of the people of Minnesota;
specifically enforceable by its holder or any beneficiary; and binding on the
holder of the servient estate, his or her heirs, successors, or assigns. Unless
specifically provided by the parties, no such easement shall give the holder or
any beneficiary the right to enter on the land except for enforcement of the
easement.
      SCREENING. The presence of vegetation or topography which makes any
structure on any property visually inconspicuous in summer months as viewed
from the river.
      SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between any part of a structure
and the ordinary high water mark or a bluffline. In areas where the ordinary
high water mark is not evident, SETBACKS shall be measured from the stream bank
of the following water bodies that have permanent flow or open water: the main
channel, adjoining side channels, backwaters, and sloughs.
      SLOPE. All lands between the ordinary high water mark and the riverway
boundary having an angle of ascent or descent of more than 12% from the
horizontal.
      ST. CROIX RIVERWAY. All lands and public waters within the riverway
boundary subject to the Standards and Criteria for the Lower St. Croix National
Scenic Riverway in Minnesota.
      STRUCTURE. Any building and appurtenance thereto, except transmission
services.
      SUBSTANDARD STRUCTURE. Any structure which is permitted within a
particular zoning district but does not meet the structure setbacks or other
dimensional standards of city regulations.
      VARIANCE.  Any modification or variation of the dimensional standards of
city regulations where it is determined that, because of hardships, strict
enforcement of the regulations is impractical.
      VISUALLY INCONSPICUOUS.  Difficult to see or not readily noticeable in
summer months as viewed from the river.
      WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either
continuously or intermittently. The term applies to either natural or
artificially constructed channels.
      WETLANDS. Land which is annually subject to periodic or continual
inundation by water and commonly referred to as a bog, swamp, marsh, or slough.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 302.01)
DISTRICT PROVISIONS
§ 155.015 DESIGNATION OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of protecting the natural resources and natural scenic
values of the land within the boundaries of the Lower St. Croix Riverway and
because there is a difference in development patterns, rural and urban
districts shall be established.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 401.01)
   (B)   The boundaries of the Lower St. Croix Riverway and the urban and rural
zoning districts within the Riverway include all of the land riverward of the
legally described boundary line in the official copy of the Lower St. Croix
National Scenic Riverway Master Plan and as shown on the map designated as the
"City of Lakeland, Lower St. Croix Riverway Zoning Map."
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 401.02)
   (C)   The boundaries of the Lower St. Croix Riverway zoning districts on the
map designated as the "City of Lakeland, Lower St. Croix Riverway Zoning Map,"
is made a part of this chapter and is on file with the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 401.03)
§ 155.016 MINIMUM DISTRICT DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following chart sets forth the minimum area, setbacks, and other
requirements of each district:
District Areas Rural District Urban District Urban District with Public Sewer
                                             and Water
                                                                                              Urban
                                                                                              District
                                                                            Rural    Urban    with
District Areas                                                              District District Public
                                                                                              Sewer
                                                                                              and
                                                                                              Water
1.    Minimum lot size above ordinary high water mark                    2-1/     1 acre   20,000
                                                                            2 acres           sq. ft.
2.    Lot width at building setback line                                 200 feet 150 feet 100 feet
3.    Lot width at water line                                            200 feet 150 feet 100 feet
4.    Building setback from ordinary high water mark                     200 feet 100 feet 100 feet
5.    Building setback from bluffline                                    100 feet 40 feet  40 feet
6.    The soil absorption portion of the on-site sewage treatment system 200 feet 100 feet
setback from ordinary high water mark
7.   Sewage tank                                                         30 feet  30 feet
8.    On-site sewage treatment system setback from bluffline             40 feet  40 feet
9.   Maximum structure height                                            35 feet  35 feet  35 feet
                                                                            20% (1/  20%      20%
10.   Maximum total lot area covered by impervious surface               2 acre)  (8,700   (4,000
                                                                                     sq. ft.) sq. ft.)
11.   On slopes less than 12%, the controlled vegetative cutting areas
setback are from:
       - Ordinary high water mark                                    200 feet 100 feet 100 feet
       - Blufflines                                                  40 feet  40 feet  40 feet
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 402.01)
   (B)   No structures shall be placed or grading done on any slopes greater
than 12% (12 feet vertical rise in 100 feet horizontal distance).
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 402.02)
   (C)   No structure shall be placed in any floodway. Structures proposed
within a floodplain shall be consistent with city and state floodplain
ordinances.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 402.03)
   (D)   Exceptions to the minimum dimensional requirement include the
following:
      (1)   In rural districts, structure setback from the bluffline may be
varied to within the 40-foot to 100-foot range from the bluffline only by the
variance procedure of this chapter. In the event that such a variance is
necessary, the following items shall be considered conditions of the variance:
         (a)   The existing drainage patterns shall not be disturbed.
         (b)   All construction and grading excavation or disruption of the
natural ground cover due to the on-site construction shall be sodded or seeded
within 180 days of the date of issuance of the building permit.
         (c)   To the greatest extent possible, vegetation over 6 inches in
diameter shall not be removed.
         (d)   The structure shall be visually inconspicuous as viewed from the
river during summer months.
         (e)   The site shall be capable of supporting a standard septic
treatment system as required in
Chapter 157.
      (2)   Developments which provide service to the public and which by their
nature require a location on or adjacent to the public waters and which also
require approval of the Commissioner of Natural Resources;
      (3)   Temporary or seasonal docks which extend into the water a minimum
distance necessary for the launching or mooring of watercraft;
      (4)   Signs which are necessary for public health and safety or which
designate areas available or not available for public use;
      (5)   Visually inconspicuous stairways and lifts enabling access to the
river from steep slopes; and
      (6)   On a vacant bluffland or shoreland lot which has 2 adjacent lots,
with principal dwelling structure on both the adjacent lots within 200 feet of
the common lot line, any new structure shall be set back the average setback of
the adjacent structures plus 40 feet or the minimum standard setback, whichever
is less.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 402.04)
USES WITHIN THE ST. CROIX RIVERWAY
§ 155.025 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of establishing standards and criteria for uses in the St. Croix
Riverway shall be to protect and preserve existing natural, scenic, and
recreational values, to maintain proper relationships between various land use
types, and to prohibit new residential, commercial, or industrial uses that are
inconsistent with the National Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, and the federal and
state Lower St. Croix River Acts.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 501)
§ 155.026 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Permitted.  All structures associated with the following uses are
permitted in the St. Croix Riverway, subject to the dimensional requirements of
the city.
      (1)   Agriculture; and
      (2)   Single-family residential.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 502.01)
   (B)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses which are incidental to the permitted
primary uses of the property are permitted.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 502.02)
§ 155.027 SITE PRESERVATION.  
   The following standards and criteria are provided to preserve vegetative and
topographical screening, and to retard surface runoff, soil erosion, and
nutrient loss.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 503)
   (A)   Vegetation management definitions. For the purpose of this chapter,
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning:
      BLUFF LINE. A line along the top of a slope connecting the points at
which the slope becomes less than 13%. This applies to those slopes within the
land use district, which are beyond the setback provision from the normal high
water mark.
      DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT. The standard method of expressing the diameter
of the trunk of a standing tree, trunks are measured at 4.5 feet above the
ground - the typical breast height of  an adult, see additional handouts
related to vegetative clearing for additional information on how to measure
diameter at breast height.
      HABITAT RESTORATION. An activity conducted to return a designated area,
to the maximum extent possible, to the ecological condition that existed prior
to settlement, late successional or climax type plant communities including,
mesic or dry oak forest, oak woodland, oak woodland/brushland, maple-basswood
forest, floodplain forest or black ash swamp plant community type should be
selected based on site conditions/characteristics, applicants shall use
guidance from the Minnesota DNR’s Native Plant Communities of Minnesota Field
Guide to the Eastern Broadleaf Forest Province, the Minnesota Land Cover
Classification System Manual or Minnesota’s St. Croix River Valley and Anoka
Sandplain - A Guide to Native Habitats for guidance in restoring the
appropriate plant community.
      HAZARD TREE. A tree possessing the qualities in structure and/or growth
that exceed an unacceptable level of risk to public safety, may be hazardous to
people or property.
      NATIVE VEGETATION. Those species of vegetation that occurred naturally in
presettlement Minnesota.
      NOXIOUS WEEDS. A plant species listed by the Minnesota Department of
Agriculture as a State Prohibited Noxious Weed, a Restricted Noxious Weed, or a
Secondary Noxious Weed, an updated list can be found at: http://
www.mda.state.mn.us/en/plants/badplants/noxiouslist.aspx.
      ORNAMENTAL TREES AND SHRUBS. A tree or shrub planted and grown only for
its ornamental qualities, rather than for its commercial or natural values,
ORNAMENTAL TREES AND SHRUBS are typically grown in a garden setting and display
features including but not limited to attractive flowers or fruits.
      QUALIFIED FORESTRY PROFESSIONAL. An individual who has a Bachelor’s or
higher degree in forest management or a related natural resource field and at
least 3 years of substantial on-the-ground experience.
   (B)   Vegetation management standards have been developed to achieve the
following intents and purposes:
      (1)   To keep in-tact the roles and functions of natural river shoreland
which provide diverse habitat and natural corridors for animal and plant
movement, water quality protection, stable shorelands, reduced flooding
impacts, and the like.
      (2)   To protect the ecologically significant floral and faunal
communities found within the St. Croix Riverway.
      (3)   To prevent land disturbance and clearing in areas prone to erosion
and/or in areas that are highly complicated to restore.
      (4)   To promote the restoration of the appropriate diverse, native plant
community, mainly oak woodland and oak woodland brushland as well as other
forest plant community types.
      (5)   To provide screening of existing and new on-land structures as seen
from the river.
      (6)   To maintain a balance between development and quality views of the
river while protecting the city’s valuable natural resources.
      (7)   To preserve the essential character, quality and density of
existing growth and maintenance of continuous canopy cover.
   (C)   Vegetative management standards apply to all land within any of the
following areas in the St. Croix Riverway District in the City of Lakeland,
meeting at least 1 of the criteria outlined below.
      (1)   Land within 40 feet landward of the river bluff line.
      (2)   Slope preservation zones.
      (3)   Land within 100 feet of the St. Croix River ordinary high water
mark in urban areas.
      (4)   Land within 200 feet of the St. Croix River ordinary high water
mark in rural areas.
   (D)   Vegetation management permit requirements.
      (1)   The following activities are allowed without a vegetative removal
permit, provided the essential character, quality and density of existing
growth is preserved and the canopy is maintained as seen from the river during
the growing season:
         (a)   Mowing of existing lawn.
         (b)   Clearing for validly permitted structures within the
construction limits outlined in the permit documents.
         (c)   Maintenance pruning to maintain the health of ornamental trees
and shrubs.
      (2)   The following activities may be allowed with a vegetative removal
permit issued by the City Zoning Administrator:
         (a)   The removal of trees less than 6 inches in diameter measured at
4.5 feet above the ground provided such removal involves vegetation which does
not reasonably affect the screening of structures on a property from a view of
the property as taken from the river during the growing season.
         (b)   The removal of dead trees and branches.
         (c)   The removal of diseased or hazard trees.
         (d)   The removal of vegetation for transportation or utility rights-
of-way.
      (3)   The following activities may be allowed with a vegetative removal
permit and restoration and management plan approved by the City Zoning
Administrator:
         (a)   The removal or killing of noxious trees and shrubs exceeding 6
inches in diameter measured at 4.5 feet above the ground.
         (b)   The removal or killing of noxious tree or shrubs species, which
provide screening, for the purpose of habitat restoration.
      (4)   Any removal or killing of vegetation not listed in divisions (D)(1)
through (3) must meet the following conditions:
         (a)   A report from the City Arborist detailing the proposed work and
why work is required must be submitted to the City Zoning Administrator along
with a vegetative removal permit application. The applicant must assume all
fees associated with the City Arborist.
         (b)   The City Council must approve the City Arborist’s report prior
to starting work.
         (c)   Project may require the submittal of a restoration and
management plan.
   (E)   Vegetation management standards.
      (1)   The following vegetation management standards apply whenever a
vegetative removal permit is required:
         (a)   Vegetation may not be disturbed or removed if screening an
existing or proposed structure to make it visually inconspicuous; however,
noxious weeds that provide screening may be removed if outlined in an approved
restoration and management plan.
         (b)   Trees and/or shrubs may not be removed to expand areas
maintained as lawn.
         (c)   Should herbicide treatment be necessary, it shall be applied
directly to cut stumps to prevent regrowth of noxious weed species, or as
directed in an approved restoration and management plan.
         (d)   Native plant species shall be used for replacement plantings or
for restoration activities, proposed replacement species shall be documented in
an approved restoration and management plan.
   (F)   Permit and plan submittal requirements.
      (1)   Permit and plan submittal requirements for activities outlined in
division (D)(2):
         (a)   The submitted application for a vegetative removal permit must
include:
            1.   A written description of proposed cutting, trimming, killing
or removal activities.
            2.   A site plan or sketch indicating the location, size, and
species of all vegetation to be removed, and all proposed replacement
vegetation.
            3.   “Before” photos of the site taken from the same location on
the property approximately 10 to 40 feet from the bluff line toward the river.
      (2)   Permit and plan submittal requirements for activities defined in
division (D)(3):
         (a)   A written description of proposed removal activities signed by a
qualified forestry professional.
         (b)   A restoration and management plan prepared and signed by an
approved forestry professional.
         (c)   “Before” and “after” photos of the site taken from the same
location on the property approximately 10 to 40 feet from the bluff line toward
the river.
      (3)   The submitted restoration and management plan must:
         (a)   Be prepared and signed by a qualified forestry professional.
         (b)   Include locations of noxious trees and shrubs over 6 inches in
diameter measured at 4.5 feet above the ground.
         (c)   Include a drawing of areas of proposed noxious shrub or
herbaceous species removal.
         (d)   Include a site plan showing the location, size, and species of
all other vegetation to be removed.
         (e)   Include photos of the site to be cleared taken from several
locations within the project area.
         (f)   Include a planting schedule for the replacement of cut or
removed vegetation.
         (g)   Include a planting schedule that indicates planting density and
proposed plant species to be added to the site. The following replacement
standard must be followed:
 
Diameter at Breast Height (DBH)  Number of Replacement Trees
of Existing Tree Removed         (2 inches DH minimum)
Less than 6 inches               1
Between 6 and 12 inches          3
Between 12 and 18 inches         4
Between 18 and 24 inches         5
Greater than 18 to 24 inches     7
Note: Smaller replacement trees may be used in areas sensitive to disturbance
and prone to erosion as deemed necessary and approved by the City Zoning
Administrator.
 
         (h)   Include a maintenance plan extending at least 3 years.
   (G)   Penalties related to vegetation management.
      (1)   Non-compliance may result in fines, required restoration or other
city action.
      (2)   A replacement plan must be prepared in accordance with the
requirements for a restoration and management plan, and must be approved by the
City Zoning Administrator.
   (H)   Grading and filling. Grading, filling, excavating, or otherwise
changing the topography landward of the ordinary high water mark shall not be
conducted without a grading permit from the City Zoning Administrator. A
grading permit may be issued only if:
      (1)   Slopes greater than 12% (12 feet vertical rise in 100 horizontal
feet) are preserved to the greatest extent possible;
      (2)   Earthmoving, erosion, vegetative cutting, draining or filling of
wetlands and the destruction of natural amenities is minimized;
      (3)   The smallest amount of ground is exposed for as short a time as
feasible;
      (4)   During construction, temporary ground cover, such as mulch, is used
and permanent ground cover, such as sod, is planted upon completion;
      (5)   Methods to prevent erosion and trap sediment are employed; and
      (6)   Fill is stabilized to accepted engineering standards.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 503.03)
   (I)   Grading and filling permit. A separate grading and filling permit is
not required for grading, filling, or excavating the minimum area necessary for
a structure, sewage disposal system, and private road and parking area
undertaken pursuant to a validly issued building permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 503.04) (Am. Ord. 7526, passed 6-21-2011)
§ 155.028 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Definition.  CONDITIONAL USES are uses which normally are not
permitted in the urban or rural districts of the St. Croix Riverway unless it
is determined by the City Council, after a public hearing, that the proposed
use shall:
      (1)   Preserve the scenic and recreational resources of the St. Croix
Riverway, especially in regard to the view from and use of the river;
      (2)   Maintain safe and healthful conditions; and
      (3)   Limit erosion potential of the site based on degree and direction
of slope, soil type, and vegetative cover.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 504.01)
   (B)   Urban district conditional uses.  In urban districts of this chapter,
existing zoning districts in effect and uses permitted on May 1, 1974 by the
city may again be permitted, provided the use has been listed in this chapter
by the City Council and has been approved in writing by the Commissioner of
Natural Resources.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 504.02)
   (C)   Rural district conditional uses. In the rural districts of this
chapter, the following uses may be permitted as conditional uses.
      (1)   Government resource management and interpretive activities;
      (2)   Marina between the Boomsite Highway wayside and the northern
boundary of Stillwater; and
      (3)   Governmental highway waysides, rest areas, information areas, and
scenic overlooks.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 504.03)
§ 155.029 PROHIBITED USES.
   In all districts within the St. Croix Riverway, the following uses or
expansion of existing uses shall be prohibited:
   (A)   Sand and gravel operations;
   (B)   Junk yards;
   (C)   Mobile home parks;
   (D)   Downhill ski areas;
   (E)   Marinas upstream from the Boomsite Highway wayside and downstream from
Stillwater in rural districts; and
   (F)   All uses not authorized in the local zoning ordinances.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 505.01)
§ 155.030 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Uses which are prohibited by this chapter but which are in existence prior
to the effective date of this chapter shall be nonconforming uses and may
continue as lawful, nonconforming uses. Such uses shall not be intensified,
enlarged, or expanded beyond the permitted or delineated boundaries of the use,
activity, or reclamation plan as stipulated in the most current permit issued
prior to the adoption of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 506.01)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 155.040 SUBSTANDARD STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All structures in existence prior to the adoption date of this chapter
which do not meet the structure setbacks and other dimensional standards of
this chapter shall be considered substandard structures.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 601.01)
   (B)   Any extension, enlargement, or alteration of an existing substandard
structure or sanitary facility shall meet the setback standards of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 601.02)
   (C)   The following exceptions to the setback standards contained in this
chapter for substandard structures are allowed, provided in no instance shall
the extent to which any structure or sanitary facility violating a setback
standard be increased.
      (1)   An extension, enlargement, or alteration of an existing substandard
structure or sanitary facility may be permitted on the side of the structure or
facility facing away from the river and/or bluffline.
      (2)   A lateral improvement to an existing substandard structure or
facility is allowed so long as all of the following conditions are met, subject
to the general conditions of this division (C). For the purpose of this
section, the term STRUCTURE shall not include decks, porches, garages, or other
non-year-round living spaces.
         (a)   A minimum undisturbed setback of 30 feet from all blufflines and
50 feet from the ordinary high water mark of the river shall be maintained.
         (b)   The maximum width of the improvement shall not exceed 50% of the
lateral width of the river facing profile of the existing structure. For the
purpose of this section, the LATERAL PROFILE WIDTH shall exclude decks porches,
garages, or other non-year-round living spaces, and shall be based on the date
the structure became a substandard structure.
         (c)   The improvement to the structure must be visually inconspicuous
as viewed from the river during summer months.
         (d)   An inspection by the Zoning Administrator and Soil and Water
Conservation District must include a finding that tree survival/growth and
integrity and inherent stability of the existing landscape will be maintained
if the improvement is built.
         (e)   The improvement shall meet all other standards contained in the
ordinance, including those contained in §§
155.016 and
155.041.
         (f)   The height of the improvement shall not exceed the height of the
roof line of the existing structure.
      (3)   Exterior decks attached to the structure which do not extend any
roof or foundation, may be permitted to extend laterally (parallel to the river
or bluffline) at the same setback as the substandard structure if the deck is
visually inconspicuous in summer months as viewed from the river, and provided
the deck has no roof or building foundation.
      (4)   Substandard structures which do not meet the bluffland and/or
shoreland setbacks shall not be raised in elevation or roofline, except in
floodplain areas and then only to protect the structure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 601.03)
   (D)   If a substandard structure needs replacing due to destruction,
deterioration, or obsolescence, the replacement shall comply with the
dimensional standards of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 601.04)
§ 155.041 SUBSTANDARD LOTS.
   (A)   A lot or parcel of land for which a deed has been recorded in the
office of the Washington County Recorder on or prior to May 1, 1974 shall be
deemed a buildable lot, provided it has frontage on a maintained public right-
of-way, maintained by the city or other unit of government, or frontage on a
private road established and of record in the office of the Washington County
Recorder prior to May 1, 1974, and it can be demonstrated that a proper and
adequate sewage disposal system can be installed; and a proposed structure can
meet the sideyard setbacks of
Chapter 159, and the pre-existing lot area dimensions meet or exceed 60% of the
requirement for a new lot in the same district.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 602.01)
   (B)   If in a group of contiguous platted lots under a single ownership, any
individual lot does not meet the minimum requirements of this chapter, the
individual lot cannot be considered as a separate parcel of land for purposes
of sale or development, but must be combined with adjacent lots under the same
ownership, so that the combination of lots will equal 1 or more parcels of land
each meeting the full minimum requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 602.02)
§ 155.042 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Any premises intended for human occupancy must be provided with an
adequate method of sewage disposal. Public or municipal collection and
treatment facilities must be used where available and where feasible. Where
public or municipal facilities are not available, all on-site individual sewer
disposal systems shall conform to the minimum standard as set forth in
Chapter 157 and §§
155.015 and
155.016. A septic tank/drainfield system shall be the only acceptable system
for installation unless it can be demonstrated that this system is not feasible
on the particular lot in question, and it can be demonstrated that the system
being proposed as an alternate will not cause a pollution problem.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 603.01)
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall install, alter, repair, or
extend any individual sewer disposal system without first obtaining a permit
therefor from the authority having jurisdiction for the specific installation,
alteration, repair, or extension.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 603.02) (Am. Ord. 7555, passed 6-21-2016)
§ 155.043 COLOR OF STRUCTURES.
   The exterior color of new or renovated structures, including roofs, shall be
of earth or summer vegetation tones, unless completely screened from the river.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 604.01)
§ 155.044 MARINAS.
   (A)   New and/or expanded marinas may only be allowed:
      (1)   Between the Boomsite Highway wayside and the City of Stillwater;
and
      (2)   Downstream from the northern city limits of Stillwater in urban
districts.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 605.01)
   (B)   New marinas shall meet the design standards of Natural Resources
Regulations including NR 2201(f(2)).
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 605.02)
   (C)   No construction or development associated with a marina shall begin
until all of the following authorizations have been obtained by the applicant.
      (1)   Marinas shall be a conditional use in this chapter; and
      (2)   For uses and structure above the ordinary high water mark
associated with a marina, a public hearing shall be held by the City Council to
consider a marina as a conditional use in accordance with Department of Natural
Resources Regulations including NR 2202(d(2)). The City Council may approve or
deny the marina and the standards of the Department of Natural Resources. If
the City Council approves the marina, final issuance of the local permit shall
be conditioned upon granting of all state and federal permits required in
Department of Natural Resources Regulations including NR 2201(f).
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 605.03)
§ 155.045 ALTERATIONS IN PUBLIC WATERS.
   Changing the course, current, or cross section of public waters shall
require state and federal permits as specified in (g) of NR 2201 before any
local permits may be issued.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 606.01)
§ 155.046 TRANSMISSION SERVICES.
   A permit from the Commissioner of Natural Resources is required pursuant to
M.S. § 84.415, as it may be amended from time to time, before transmission
services may cross state-owned lands or public waters and shall be in
accordance with Natural Resources Regulations including NR 2201(h).
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 607.01)
§ 155.047 PUBLIC ROADS.
   A permit from the Commissioner of Natural Resources is required before
construction, reconstruction, removal, or abandonment of any road or railroad
crossing of public waters within the Riverway. The permit shall be in
accordance with the Natural Resources Regulations including NR 2201(i).
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 608.01)
SUBDIVISIONS
§ 155.060 LAND SUITABILITY.
   No land shall be subdivided which is found by the City Council to be
unsuitable for reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, soil and rock formation
with severe limitations for development, severe erosion potential, unfavorable
topography, inadequate water supply or sewer disposal capabilities or any other
feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety, or welfare of the future
residents of the proposed subdivision or the city. The City Council in applying
the provisions of this section shall in writing cite the particular features
upon which it bases its conclusions that the land is not suitable for the
proposed use and afford the subdivider an opportunity to present evidence
regarding such suitability at a public hearing. Therefore, the City Council may
affirm, modify, or withdraw its determination of unsuitability.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 701.01)
§ 155.061 PRELIMINARY PLANS.
   (A)   Preliminary plans for all plats, including planned cluster
developments, shall be approved by the Commissioner of Natural Resources or his
or her agent in writing prior to preliminary approval by the City Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 702.01)
   (B)   All subdivisions shall comply with the applicable provisions of the
city Subdivision Regulations,
Chapter 158.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 702.02)
§ 155.062 PLANNED CLUSTER DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   A pattern of subdivision development which places dwelling units into
compact groupings may be allowed when the proposed clustering provides a better
means of preserving agricultural land, open space, woods, scenic views,
wetlands, and other features of the natural environment than traditional
subdivision development.
   (B)   Except for minimum setbacks and heights limits, altered dimensional
standards may be allowed as exceptions to this chapter for planned cluster
developments, provided:
      (1)   In rural districts of this chapter the number of dwelling units
allowed shall not exceed the total number of dwelling units allowed if the
development was based on the minimum lot size requirements for a single-family
residential subdivision.
      (2)   In urban districts of this chapter and only where public sewer and
water will be installed in the proposed cluster development, the number of
dwelling units shall not exceed 50% more than the total number of dwelling
units allowed if the development was based on the minimum lot size requirements
for single-family residential subdivision.
      (3)   Open space shall be preserved. At least 50% of the length of
shoreland or bluffland frontage as viewed from the river shall be kept in its
natural state.
      (4)   Temporary docks, if allowed, shall be centralized and of a size not
to exceed the needs of the residents of the development.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 703.01)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.075 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In addition to the applicable administrative procedures set forth in
the local Zoning Ordinance, the following procedures shall be implemented with
respect to land, subject to this chapter.
      (1)   A public hearing shall be held by the local authority for all
zoning district amendments, conditional use permits, subdivision, and
variances; and
      (2)   No less than 20 days prior to the public hearing, the local Zoning
Administrator shall send notice and copies of the applicant's information as
specified in §
155.077 to the following agencies for review and comments:
         (a)   Department of Natural Resources;
         (b)   County and City Planning Commission; and
         (c)   Minnesota/Wisconsin Boundary Area Commission.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 801.01)
   (B)   The applicant for any permit requiring a public hearing shall submit
to the City Council, at least 30 days prior to the hearing, an abstractor's
certificate showing the names and addresses of all property owners within 500
feet of the affected property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 801.02)
   (C)   Notice of the purpose, time, and place of any such public hearing
shall be mailed to all property owners listed in division (B) above by the
Zoning Administrator at least 10 days prior to the date of the hearing.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 801.03)
   (D)   Notice of the purpose, time, and place of any such public hearing
shall be published in the official newspaper of the city at least 10 days prior
to the date of the hearing.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 801.04)
§ 155.076 CERTIFICATION BY THE COMMISSIONER OF NATURAL RESOURCES.
   Before any zoning district or ordinance amendment is deemed finally approved
by the city, the City Council shall forward the decision to the Commissioner of
Natural Resources. The Commissioner of Natural Resources shall, within 30 days
of receiving the notice, communicate to the city either certification of
approval, with or without conditions; or notice of nonapproval in accordance
with Minn. Rules part 6015.0540.
(Ord. 7532, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 155.077 FORWARDING OF A FINAL DECISION.
   The City Council shall forward decisions within 10 days of final action on
all conditional use permits and subdivisions to the Commissioner of Natural
Resources.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 803.01)
§ 155.078 PERMIT PROCESS.
St. Croix Riverway Permits Urban District Rural District
St. Croix Riverway Permits     Urban District Rural District
Amendments to district         PH - CC        PH - CC
boundary
Amendments to ordinance        PH - CC        PH - CC
Building permits               LP             LP
Conditional use permits        PH - FD        PH - FD
Grading permits                LP             LP
Plats and cluster developments PH - WA - FD   PH - WA - FD
Septic permits                 LP             LP
Tree cutting permits           LP             LP
Variance                       PH - CC        PH - CC
LP   Permit issued by the local authority in accordance with this chapter and
all other local permits
CC   Certification by the Commissioner of Natural Resources prior to final
local approval
PH   Public hearing necessary by the local authority given 20 days' notice of
meeting to the Commissioner of Natural Resources and other agencies listed in §
155.075(A)
FD   Local authority forwards any decisions to the Commissioner of Natural
Resources within 10 days after taking final action
WA   The Commissioner of Natural Resources shall submit, after notice of public
hearing and before the local authority gives preliminary approval, a written
review and approval of the project
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 804)
§ 155.079 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be granted where there are particular hardships
which make the strict enforcement of this chapter impractical. HARDSHIP means
the proposed use of the property and associated structures in question cannot
be established under the conditions allowed by this chapter; the plight of the
landowner is due to circumstances unique to his or her property, not created by
the landowner after May 1, 1974; and the variance, if granted, will not alter
the essential character of the locality. Economic considerations alone shall
not constitute a hardship for the reasonable use of the property and associated
structures under the conditions allowed by this chapter. In addition, no
variance shall be granted that would permit any use that is prohibited in this
chapter in which the subject property is located. Conditions may be imposed in
the granting of a variance to ensure compliance and to protect the adjacent
properties and the public interest, especially in regard to the view from the
river.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 805.01)
   (B)   The formal public hearing for a variance shall be held by the City
Council as set forth in the Zoning Ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 805.02)
§ 155.080 REQUIREMENTS OF THE APPLICANT FOR A PUBLIC HEARING.
   The applicant shall submit sufficient copies of the following information
and additional information as requested to the local authority 30 days prior to
the public hearing on the application for a conditional use, variance, or
subdivision:
   (A)   Plat or survey showing the property location, boundaries, dimensions,
elevations, blufflines, utility and roadway corridors, the ordinary high water
mark, floodway, and floodplain;
   (B)   The most recent photographs of the property (including aerial
photographs) if requested by the local authority or the Department of Natural
Resources;
   (C)   Location of existing and proposed structures, including height and
setback dimensions;
   (D)   Location of existing and proposed alterations of vegetation and
topography;
   (E)   Adjoining water-oriented uses;
   (F)   Suitability of the area for on-site waste disposal. Type, size, and
location of the system shall be indicated. If a public or municipal wastewater
collection and treatment system is to be utilized, the applicant must submit a
written agreement from the municipality or sanitary authority indicating the
system has the capacity to handle the development;
   (G)   Water supply system; and
   (H)   An estimate of permanent and transient residents.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 806.01) (Am. Ord. 7426, passed 2-17-1981)
§ 155.081 FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.
   When considering a proposal or zoning amendments within the St. Croix River
District, the City Council shall address the following items in making its
decision:
   (A)   Preserving the scenic and recreational resources of the St. Croix
Riverway, especially in regard to the view from and use of the river;
   (B)   The maintenance of safe and healthful conditions;
   (C)   The prevention and control of water pollution, including
sedimentation;
   (D)   The location of the site with respect to floodways, floodplains,
slopes, and blufflines;
   (E)   The erosion potential of the site based on degree and direction of
slope, soil type, and vegetative cover;
   (F)   Potential impact on game and fish habitat;
   (G)   Location of the site with respect to existing or future access roads;
   (H)   The amount of wastes to be generated and the adequacy of the proposed
disposal systems;
   (I)   The anticipated demand for police, fire, medical, and school services
and facilities; and
   (J)   The compatibility of the proposed development with uses on adjacent
land.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 807.01)
§ 155.082 ENFORCEMENT.
   In the event of a violation or a threatened violation of this chapter, the
City Council, or the Commissioner of Natural Resources, in addition to other
remedies, may institute appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent,
restrain, correct, or abate such violations or threatened violations and it is
the duty of the Attorney to institute such action.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 901.02)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   It is declared unlawful for any person to violate any of the terms and
provisions of this chapter. Violation thereof shall be a misdemeanor. Each day
that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. All
misdemeanor violations shall be punishable to the extent specified in §§
10.98 and
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, Ch. 302 § 901.01)
CHAPTER 156: MINING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Title, intent and purpose
   
156.02   Scope and applicability
   
156.03   Insurance, financial guarantees, fees, and inspections
   
156.04   Separability; particular property
   
156.05   Definitions
Permits and Operation
   
156.15   General provisions
   
156.16   Permit application
   
156.17   Operating conditions
   
156.18   Reclamation
   
156.19   Termination of permit
   
156.20   Inspections; violations
 
   
156.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 TITLE, INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Short title. This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the
city Mining Ordinance; except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as
"this chapter." This mining regulation is adopted pursuant to the authorization
and policies contained in M.S. Chapter 394, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 1.1)
   (B)   Purpose.  This chapter is adopted for the purpose of:
      (1)   Providing for the economic availability and removal of sand,
gravel, rock, soil and other materials vital to the continued growth of the
city;
      (2)   Establishing regulations, safeguards, and controls in the city
regarding noise, dust, traffic, drainage, groundwater quality, and other
factors which will minimize the environmental aesthetic impacts on mined or
adjacent property;
      (3)   Reducing the potential for pollution caused by wind, soil erosion,
and sedimentation;
      (4)   Establishing locations, orderly approval process and operating
conditions under which mining operations will be allowed in the city and to
establish conditions which ensure the restoration of mined areas consistent
with the existing and planned land use patterns;
      (5)   Ensuring compliance with the regulations established in this
chapter on those mining operations presently operating in the city; and
      (6)   Distinguishing between operations operating with a permit prior to
the effective date of this chapter and operators who do not have a permit prior
to the effective date of this chapter. Those operators with a permit shall be
allowed to continue according to the terms and conditions of their pre-existing
permit. Those operators without permits shall be allowed to continue, subject
to obtaining a preliminary permit and shall be allowed to expand or continue
their operation only if they comply with the terms and conditions of this
chapter. The purpose of the preliminary permit is to bring operators without a
permit into compliance with the performance standards of this chapter and
established a time frame within which they must apply for a conditional use
permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 1.2)
§ 156.02 SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY.
   There is hereby adopted, for purposes of regulating the removal and
processing of sand, gravel, rock, soil, or other deposits, the city Mining
Ordinance. This chapter applies to all lands within the city. It is not
intended by this chapter to repeal, amend, or in any way impair or interfere
with existing provisions of other laws or ordinances except those specifically
repealed by or in conflict with this chapter, or with private restrictions
placed upon property by deed, covenant, or other private agreement, or with
restrictive covenants governing the land. Where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon the land than is imposed or required by such existing
provisions of law, ordinance, contract, or deed, the provisions of this chapter
shall control. In the event of conflicting provisions in the text of this
chapter, or any other city ordinance, the most restrictive shall apply.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 2.1)
§ 156.03 INSURANCE, FINANCIAL GUARANTEE, FEES, AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Insurance. The operator shall provide proof of bodily injury, property
damage, and public liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 for any
occurrence, including blasting insurance if blasting is allowed as part of the
permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 8.1)
   (B)   Fees. Permit fees will be charged based on resolution of the City
Council. Fees shall cover all administrative costs associated with the permit
application, annual review, and costs of inspections.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 8.3)
   (C)   Inspections. As a condition of approval of a mining permit, city
staff/representative has the right to go on the subject property after
providing reasonable notice to the operator.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 8.4)
§ 156.04 SEPARABILITY; PARTICULAR PROPERTY.
   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the application
of any portion of this chapter to a particular property, building, or other
structure, the judgment shall not affect the application of the provision to
any other property, building, or structure not specifically included in the
judgment.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 11.1)
§ 156.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOND. Any form of security including cash deposit, surety bond, collateral,
or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory to the city. All
BONDS shall be approved by the city wherever a BOND is required by these
regulations.
   CITY.  The City of Lakeland.
   CONDITIONAL USE.  A land use or development as defined by ordinance that may
not be appropriate generally, but may be allowed with appropriate restrictions
as provided by official controls upon a finding that:
      (1)   Certain conditions as detailed in the Zoning Ordinance exist;
      (2)   The use or development conforms to city zoning regulations; and
      (3)   Is compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   CONFINED AQUIFER. An aquifer overlain by a confining layer of impermeable
material.
   CONTOUR MAP. A map on which irregularities of land surface are shown by
lines connecting points of equal elevations. Contour interval is the vertical
height between contour lines.
   COUNTY. Washington County.
   FENCE. A partition, structure, wall, or gate erected as a dividing marker,
visual or physical barrier or enclosure.
   GRADING.  The removal, depositing, or moving of more than 50 cubic yards of
sand, gravel, rock, soil, clay, or other deposits in less than a 1-year period
on any parcel.
   HOLIDAY. New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
   LOCAL GOVERNING BODY. The City of Lakeland City Council.
   MINING.  
      (1)   The excavation, removal, storage, or processing of sand, gravel,
rock, soil, clay, or other deposits.
      (2)   MINING shall not include the excavation, removal, or storage of
rock, sand, dirt, gravel, clay, or other material for the following purposes:
         (a)   Excavation for the foundation, cellar, or basement of some
pending structure for which a permit has been issued and which is to be erected
immediately following the excavation, removal, or storage;
         (b)   On-site construction of approved roads, sewer lines, storm
sewers, water mains, surface water drainage approved by the city, agriculture
or conservation purposes, sod removal, or other public utilities;
         (c)   Landscaping purposes on a lot used or to be used as a building
site; or
         (d)   Grading/excavation of less than 1 acre of land in conjunction
with improvement of a site for lot development, providing activities will be
completed in 1 year.
   OPERATOR. The person, partnership, company, corporation, or other business
entity engaged in or proposing to engage in a mining operation. In the event
the OPERATOR is not the fee owner of the land to be mined, then the fee owner's
consent shall be required.
   OVERBURDEN.  Those materials which lie between the surface of the earth and
the mineral deposit to be mined.
   OWNER. An individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust, estate, lessee, or any other legal entity having sufficient
proprietary interest in the land sought to be mined to commence and maintain
proceeding to mine the same under these regulations.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS. Those standards, operating conditions, reclamation
standards, and other requirements contained in §§
156.03,
156.17, and
156.18.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate or partnership,
corporation, trust, estate, or any other legal entity.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The City Planning Commission.
   PROCESSING.  Any activity which may include the crushing, washing,
stockpiling, compounding, mixing, or treatment of sand, gravels, rocks, or
similar mineral products into consumable products such as construction grade
sand, gravel, concrete, asphalt, and other similar products.
   RECLAMATION, RESTORATION, REHABILITATION. To renew land to a self-
sustaining, long-term use which is compatible with contiguous land uses and
which process shall include the reestablishment of vegetation, soil stability
and establishment of safe conditions appropriate to the intended use of land in
accordance with the city's Comprehensive Plan and the conditional use permit
conditions allowing for excavation and/or processing on the site.
   STOCKPILING.  Storage of processed or raw materials on the site of the sand,
gravel, or rock operation.
   SURVEY, LAND. The process of determining boundaries and areas of tracts of
land.
   TOPSOIL.  That portion of the overburden which lies within the "A" and "B"
horizon of soil closest to the surface and which supports the growth of
vegetation.
   UNCONFINED AQUIFER. An aquifer not naturally protected by a confining bed,
also known as the WATER TABLE AQUIFER.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 4.1)
PERMITS AND OPERATION
§ 156.15 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Pre-permitted uses. Mining operations operating with a valid
conditional use permit issued by the city and in compliance with the terms and
conditions of the conditional use permit shall be permitted to continue subject
to the following: The uses shall not be permitted to expand, either in size or
use, beyond the limits set forth in the conditional use permit without first
obtaining a new conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 3.1)
   (B)   Permit required.  A mining permit is required for all mining
operations and is subject to the following:
      (1)   The operation of a mining operation without a valid conditional use
permit is declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful for any person,
partnership, company, or corporation to engage in mining in violation of this
section, or for any property owner to permit a person to mine his or her
property in violation of this section.
      (2)   The information contained in the preliminary permit shall be used
by the Zoning Administrator to prioritize existing mining operations as to
their potential aesthetic and environmental impacts. The impacts shall be the
basis on which the Zoning Administrator provides notification to existing
operations of the need for a conditional use permit. Existing operations must
apply for a conditional use permit within 90 days of being notified by the
Zoning Administrator of the need for a permit. If no permit is applied for and/
or subsequently issued, all mining operations shall cease and the property
restored in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   The conditional use permit issued by city shall be valid for a
maximum of 1 year. If the operator seeks to continue beyond expiration, an
application for a new permit must be applied for at least 90 days prior to the
expiration of the current permit. An annual permit issued by the city is
required each year as specified below.
      (4)   (a)   In order for the city to grant a conditional use permit for a
new mining operation or the expansion or change in use of an existing
operation, whether under permit or not, all of the following criteria must be
met:
            1.   The subject property is in an A-1 Zoning District;
            2.   The property is at least 40 acres in size;
            3.   All other standards for approval of a conditional use permit
as contained in §
159.149 of the city Zoning Regulations are met;
            4.   The operation is consistent with the City Comprehensive Plan;
and
            5.   Compliance with all provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   Provided, however, that for operations existing on the effective
date of this chapter, who are not pre-permitted uses and who do not seek to
expand their operation beyond the standards set forth in their preliminary
permit, need only comply with performance standards contained in this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 3.2)
   (C)   Annual permit. The City Council shall issue an annual permit as
required by this chapter subject to the following: Prior to the issuance of the
annual permit, a copy thereof shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator
who will review it to see that it complies with the requirements of this
chapter and the city permit issued. If the permit conforms to the requirements
of this chapter and any more restrictive conditions set forth by the city, the
annual permit may be issued. If it does not conform to the city permit, the
Zoning Administrator shall refer it to the City Council for review.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 3.3)
§ 156.16 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for a conditional use permit for a mining operation
must be filed with the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall
follow procedures prescribed in §
159.024 of the City Zoning Regulations. Applications for renewal for a permit
must be made 90 days prior to the termination of the previous permit. The
application must be made in the name(s) of the operator of the mine and owner
of the land to be mined.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 5.1)
   (B)   The application shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the operator and owner of land;
      (2)   An accurate legal description of the property where the mining
shall occur;
      (3)   Names of the adjacent landowners including all those within a 500-
foot radius of the property;
      (4)   Survey indicating property boundaries;
      (5)   A map of the property where the mining is to occur that clearly
indicates the property lines and the limits of the proposed excavation.
Topographic data, including contours at 2-foot vertical intervals;
watercourses, marshes, wooded areas, rock outcrops, power transmission poles
and lines, and other significant features shall also be shown. U.S.G.S. datum
shall be used for all topographic mapping. Existing operations which previously
had topographic data completed at 4-foot intervals are acceptable, provided
they were done utilizing aerial photography or actual field investigation.
Interpolated data from U.S.G.S. quadrangle maps is not permitted;
      (6)   A narrative outlining the type of material to be excavated, mode of
operation, an estimate of amount of material to be removed, plans for blasting,
and other pertinent information to explain the request in detail;
      (7)   A fee as established by ordinance of the City Council;
      (8)   A general location map showing the proposed mining site in relation
to the city;
      (9)   A map showing access routes between the property and the nearest
arterial road;
      (10)   Roads or streets: show name, right-of-way width and traveled
portion width;
      (11)   Easements: show widths and identify utility or other purposes;
      (12)   Natural land features: show location of watercourses and drainage
ways, flood of record, wetlands, sinks, basins, and wooded areas;
      (13)   Man-made features: show buildings and other structures, dams,
dikes, and impoundments of water;
      (14)   Adjacent land features: all of the standards above shall apply to
delineation of the area within 300 feet of the perimeter of the mined area. In
addition, show all platted subdivision lots, metes and bounds parcels, and all
homes within 1/4 mile of the property boundaries;
      (15)   Groundwater: a plan for groundwater quality protection shall be
submitted with the application. The plan shall include a minimum of 3 borings
showing depth to groundwater. If groundwater is not encountered at a depth of
15 feet below the bottom of the proposed pit floor, the applicant need not
extend borings any further;
      (16)   Cross-section: a minimum of 3 cross-sections showing the extent of
overburden, extent of sand and gravel deposits, the water table, and any
evidence of the water table in the past. The Planning Commission reserves the
right to require additional borings if necessary;
      (17)   Processing areas shall be identified and boundaries shown to
scale;
      (18)   Access road to processing and mining areas shown to scale;
      (19)   Sequences of operation showing approximate areas involved shall be
shown to scale and serially numbered with a description of each;
      (20)   Location of screening berms shall be shown to scale, and notes
shall be provided indicating when they will be used as reclamation material. In
the same manner overburden storage areas shall be identified and noted;
      (21)   Fences and gates shall be shown on the site map, and their type or
construction shall be described;
      (22)   Proposed location of principal service or processing buildings or
enclosures shall be shown, as well as location of settling basins and process
water ponds;
      (23)   Site drainage features shall also be shown and flow directions
indicated;
      (24)   Lighting: set forth the planned lighting of the area and any other
equipment or structures that will be installed or built;
      (25)   Reclamation plan in conformance with §
156.18;
      (26)   The operator must indicate if blasting is proposed as part of the
mining operation and frequency of blasting; and
      (27)   Any other information or reports the Planning Commission deems
necessary for purposes of evaluating environmental or aesthetic impacts.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 5.2)
   (C)   A mandatory Environmental Assessment Worksheet (EAW) shall be required
for development of a facility for the extraction or mining of sand, gravel,
stone, or other nonmetallic minerals which will excavate 40 or more acres of
land to a mean depth of 10 feet or more during its existence. The city will be
responsible for the hiring of a firm to prepare an Environmental Assessment
Worksheet. Costs associated with the preparation of an Environmental Assessment
Worksheet shall be borne by the applicant.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 5.3)
   (D)   A mandatory Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) shall be required for
the development of a facility for the extraction or mining of sand, gravel,
stone, or other nonmetallic minerals, which will excavate 160 acres of land or
more to a depth of 10 feet or more during its existence. The city will be
responsible for the hiring of a firm to prepare an Environmental Assessment
Worksheet. Costs associated with the preparation of an Environmental Assessment
Worksheet shall be borne by the applicant.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 5.4)
   (E)   (1)   The maximum depth of excavation shall be established so that
groundwater quality is protected. This depth of excavation shall be established
by the Planning Commission and will be based, in part, upon soil
characteristics, depth of water table, nature of mining proposed and local use
of the aquifer. Mining shall not occur in confined aquifers. Excavation into
unconfined aquifers must be closely monitored and conducted according to the
conditions of the permit.
      (2)   No extraction operations shall be conducted in such a manner as to
permanently lower the water table of surrounding inhabited properties or any
other water body. An Environmental Assessment Worksheet shall be required for
any operation in which mining is proposed below the groundwater level.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 5.5)
   (F)   All provisions of the Minnesota Environmental Quality Board (EQB)
Environmental Review Program must be complied with.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 5.6)
   (G)   Permits from the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency may be required
for a mining operation in relation to air and water quality. An air quality
permit may be necessary for smoke stack discharges from processing plants or
fugitive dust from operating areas. If the mining operation discharges water
(from pit de-watering and/or gravel washing), a state disposal system permit or
a national pollution discharge elimination permit may be necessary from the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency. As a condition of any permit issued
pursuant to this chapter, no mining will be allowed until evidence is shown the
operator has obtained these permits or none are necessary.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 5.7)
   (H)   Permits from the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources may be
required in the event any type of work is proposed in public waters or if there
is a need for de-watering the pit to gain access to sand, gravel, and rock. A
permit may also be needed for a well in connection with a washing facility. As
a condition of any permit issued pursuant to this chapter, no mining will be
allowed until evidence is shown the operator has obtained these permits or none
are necessary.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 5.8)
   (I)   A mining permit must be secured from the city in which the property to
be mined is located or the applicant must present evidence a permit is not
needed.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 5.9)
   (J)   Any mining operation having access from a state or county highway must
obtain an access permit from the respective agency. A turn lane and/or bypass
lane may be required by the respective agency to reduce the risk of traffic
safety hazards. The cost of construction of a turn or bypass lane shall be the
sole expense of the operator.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 5.10)
   (K)   As part of the original application for a mining permit and any
subsequent renewals, the applicant shall submit grading plans and phased
rehabilitation plans to the Washington County Soil and Water Conservation
District and the appropriate Watershed District or Water Management
Organization for approval. Their approval shall be made prior to the
recommendation of the Planning Commission or City Council approval.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 5.11)
   (L)   Abandoned wells must be sealed in accordance with state, county, and
city requirements.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 5.12)
§ 156.17 OPERATING CONDITIONS.
   The following operating conditions and standards must be met for all mining
operations.
   (A)   Setbacks. No mining, stockpiling, or land disturbance shall take
place:
      (1)   Within 50 feet of adjoining property lines;
      (2)   Within 200 feet of any existing occupied structures not owned by
the operator or owner;
      (3)   Within 100 feet of any contiguous property subdivided into
residential lots;
      (4)   Within 100 feet of any road right-of-way of any existing or platted
street, except the amount of material stockpiled on the effective date of this
chapter may continue but not be expanded. Mining may be allowed up to 50 feet
of the road right-of-way so long as the property is restored to 100 feet within
1 mining season period, as set forth in the approved reclamation plans; and
      (5)   If 2 or more mining operations are contiguous to one another, the
common boundary may be mined if the Planning Commission approved the respective
restoration plans.
   (B)   Fencing. Where deemed necessary by the Planning Commission/City
Council for the protection of the general public, a fence shall be constructed
prior to the commencement of the operation, enclosing the area authorized by
the permit to be mined. Where fencing is required by the Planning Commission/
City Council, the fence shall be, at a minimum, a 3-strand wire fence, and the
fence shall be posted with warning signs. The Planning Commission/City Council
reserves the right to require alternative fencing standards if conditions
warrant. The fence shall be maintained and shall remain until reclamation is
determined to be complete.
   (C)   Hours of operation.  
      (1)   Those portions of the mining operation consisting of excavating,
stockpiling, processing, or hauling shall be conducted only between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, unless other hours or days
of operation are specifically authorized by the local City Council. No such
operations shall be allowed on holidays unless approved by the local City
Council.
      (2)   Retail sales of product are allowed on Saturdays between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. unless otherwise prohibited by the local City
Council.  RETAIL SALES for the purposes of this section shall mean the sale of
product to individuals for personal use and shall exclude commercial hauling.
      (3)   Blasting shall only take place between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Blasting is not permitted on holidays.
   (D)   Screening.  
      (1)   Where deemed necessary by the Planning Commission/City Council,
extracting and processing operations shall be screened or located in such a
manner so as to minimize their visual impact on surrounding properties. To
minimize their visual impact on surrounding properties, a continuous screen
shall be installed and maintained, either along the street or along the
perimeter of the visible portion of the area being operated.
      (2)   The following shall serve as the minimum performance standards and
may be varied as determined by the Planning Advisory Commission: The screen
shall have a total height of not less than 6 feet and shall consist of the
following types:
         (a)   Walls.  A wall shall consist of concrete, stone, brick, tile, or
similar type of solid masonry material a minimum of 4 inches thick.
         (b)   Berms. A berm shall be constructed of earthen materials, and it
shall be landscaped.
         (c)   Fences, solid. A solid fence shall be constructed of wood and
shall form a continuous screen.
         (d)   Fences, open. An open weave or mesh-type fence, when not used in
combination with a berm, shall be combined with plant materials to form a
continuous screen.
         (e)   Planting.  
            1.   Plant materials, when used as a screen, shall consist of dense
evergreen plants or a majority of dense evergreen plant materials combined with
deciduous plants, provided a continuous screen is established. They shall be of
a kind or used in such a manner so as to provide a continuous screen 24 months
after commencement of operation in the area to be screened. Plant materials
shall not be limited to a maximum height. The design shall be prepared by a
licensed landscape contractor or an architect.
            2.   The city shall require that either division (D)(2)(a), (b), or
(c) above shall be installed if, after 24 months after commencement of
operations in the area to be screened, plant materials have not formed an
opaque screen, or if an opaque screen is not maintained.
         (f)   Required screening.
            1.   Required screening shall be set back at least 20 feet from the
point of intersection of:
               a.   A vehicular access way or driveway and a street.
               b.   A vehicular access way or driveway and a sidewalk; and
               c.   Two or more vehicular access ways, driveways, or streets.
            2.   Required screening shall be installed prior to commencement of
operations.
   (E)   Dust control. The owner must construct, maintain and operate all
equipment in such a manner as to minimize on-site and off-site dust conditions.
All operations shall meet the standards of the State Pollution Control Agency.
The driveway access to the sand and gravel operation must be set back at least
25 feet from neighboring property lines. The operator shall maintain all ways
and roads within the site in a dust-free condition, providing the surfacing or
other treatment as may be deemed necessary by the Planning Commission/City
Council; provided that the treatment produces no potential pollution hazards to
the ground and surface waters of the area. All gravel pit access roads shall be
provided and maintained with a dustless non-oiled surface not less than 22 feet
wide from the connection to a public road to a point within 100 feet of the
loading area. Access roads shall also be constructed and maintained in such a
manner that the deposit of earth materials on public roads is minimized. The
Planning Commission/City Council may require a blacktopped road if deemed
necessary.
   (F)   Noise. All equipment and other sources of noise must operate so as to
be in accordance with federal, state, and county noise standards.
   (G)   Depth of excavation. The maximum depth of excavation may be regulated
based on groundwater protection and/or the ability to restore the property.
   (H)   Site clearance. All stumps and other debris resulting from the
excavation or related activities should be disposed of by approved methods.
   (I)   Appearance/condition. The operator must maintain buildings and plants
in a neat condition. Weeds and other unsightly or noxious vegetation shall be
controlled as necessary to preserve the appearance of the landscaped area.
Existing trees and topsoil along existing public right-of-way shall be
preserved, maintained and supplemented for the depth of the setback or as
stipulated in the conditional use permit or excavation permit.
   (J)   Sewer. The operator shall provide for adequate drainage to sanitary
sewer and storm sewer including lift stations, if necessary.
   (K)   Waste disposal.  Any waste generated from the mining operation,
including waste from vehicle or equipment maintenance, shall be disposed of in
accordance with federal, state, and county requirements.
   (L)   Water quality monitoring. Water quality monitoring when required shall
conform to the following standards: Water from monitoring wells and water
collected or discharged from the mining area shall be analyzed until 1 year
after reclamation is completed. Samples from monitoring wells shall be taken
and testing results submitted prior to the annual permit renewal. More frequent
monitoring may be required by the Planning Commission/City Council. Sampling
and testing shall be done by an independent testing laboratory or an agency
chosen by the Planning Commission/City Council. Monitoring wells shall be
sealed 1 year after reclamation efforts are complete if the site is determined
to be uncontaminated. Water samples shall be analyzed to determine the level of
nitrates, pesticides, herbicides, and volatile organic compounds specified by
the city.
   (M)   Added provisions. The operator must comply with such other
requirements that the city, from time to time, may find necessary to adopt for
protection of the health, safety, welfare, and prevention of nuisances in the
area.
   (N)   Processing. Any mining operation in which processing is proposed must
meet the following performance standards:
      (1)   A conditional use permit is required for any new or existing mining
operation which desires to add processing equipment on-site.
      (2)   The application must include the nature of the processing and
equipment, location of the plant, source of water, disposal of water, and reuse
of water.
      (3)   Operators who wish to have processing equipment on a temporary
basis (processing to be done no more than 15 working days a calendar year,
excluding time for assembly and disassembly) shall meet the following criteria:
         (a)   Only materials removed on site are allowed to be processed. No
materials may be hauled onto the property for processing, unless all material
can be processed during the 15-day time period.
         (b)   Setbacks as outlined in division (A) of this section must be
met.
         (c)   All federal, state, and local air, water, and noise standards
must be met.
         (d)   Operator must notify the city 1 week in advance and obtain a
certificate of compliance/city permit from the Zoning Administrator.
         (e)   Processing shall not take place more than 15 working days per
year.
         (f)   Crushing equipment must be placed in the bottom of the pit area
if practical, otherwise located in such a manner as to have the least
environmental and aesthetic impact.
      (4)   Operators desiring to have permanent processing equipment (more
than 15 days per year) on site must meet the following standards:
         (a)   All federal, state, and local air, water, and noise quality
standards must be met.
         (b)   Mining operations established after the effective date of this
chapter must encompass at least 40 acres of land area under permit.
         (c)   Processing equipment must be screened from view from property
lines and the road.
         (d)   Machinery must be buffered and all noise standards of the state
and county must be met.
         (e)   Crushing equipment must be placed in the bottom of the pit if
practical, otherwise located in such a manner as to have the least
environmental and aesthetic impact.
         (f)   Setback requirements as set forth in division (A) of this
section must be met.
      (5)   A temporary processing plant in conjunction with a specific road
project, located in the right-of-way or very close proximity to the subject
road, will be allowed subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   All federal, state, and local air, water, and noise quality
standards must be met.
         (b)   A certificate of compliance/city permit must be obtained from
the City Zoning Administrator.
         (c)   The processing equipment must be located so as to minimize the
effect on surrounding property owners.
         (d)   Site selection shall not have a negative effect on the public
health, safety, and welfare.
         (e)   The City Council must approve the request.
         (f)   The processing plant shall not be on the property for more than
120 calendar days.
         (g)   No materials, outside of the designated right-of-way, may be
excavated or removed from the site without a conditional use permit for mining.
         (h)   A bond, in an amount determined by the Zoning Administrator,
must be posted to assure restoration of the site.
   (O)   Recycling. The crushing/processing of used aggregate, concrete and
asphalt will be permitted subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Recycling in conjunction with a specific road project and within
the right-of-way or in very close proximity to the subject road shall be
permitted for a maximum of 120 days subject to the following standards:
         (a)   A certificate of compliance/city permit is obtained from the
City Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The processing equipment must be located so as to minimize the
effect on surrounding property owners.
         (c)   Site selection shall not have a negative effect on the public
health, safety, and welfare.
         (d)   The City Council must approve the request.
         (e)   If the Zoning Administrator denies the certificate of
compliance/city permit, appeal of this decision may be made to the City
Council.
         (f)   All federal, state, and local air, water, and noise standards
must be met.
      (2)   Recycling in conjunction with an approved mining permit shall be
allowed subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Standards contained in division (N) of this section must be met.
         (b)   An estimate of the amount of material to be processed must be
submitted. The pile of material to be recycled shall be limited to the amount
that can reasonably be processed in 2 consecutive mining seasons.
         (c)   City Planning Commission/City Council approves the recycling as
part of the mining permit.
   (P)   Trucking operations.  All new mining operations must have access to
the pit area from a 9-ton blacktop road unless the applicant demonstrates to
the Planning Commission/City Council that conditions are such in a particular
area that access to a gravel road will not adversely affect the public health,
safety or welfare. The operator shall ensure all loads leaving any pit
regulated by this chapter are loaded so as to comply with state law.
   (Q)   Asphalt plants and concrete ready mix plants.  A conditional use
permit shall be required for any new or existing mining operation that wishes
to have a permanent asphalt plant and/or a concrete ready mix plant. These
plants are intended to manufacture only bituminous asphalt mix and concrete mix
for distribution off-site. No retail sales of the product are allowed on-site.
Temporary asphalt plants and concrete ready mix platens may be allowed if the
following conditions are met.
      (1)   Operators desiring to have a temporary asphalt plant and/or a
concrete ready mix plant must meet the following standards:
         (a)   Asphalt plants and concrete ready mix plants must not be on the
property for more than 15 days per year.
         (b)   All setbacks as set forth in division (A) of this section must
be met.
         (c)   All federal, state, and local air, water, and noise quality
standards must be met. An air quality permit must be obtained from the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
         (d)   In the absence of a definitive plan to prevent surface and
groundwater contamination, asphalt plants must be equipped with a bag house so
there is no water discharge from the unit.
         (e)   Equipment must be located in such a manner so as to have the
least environmental and aesthetic impact.
         (f)   Must have approval of the City Council.
         (g)   A certificate of compliance/city permit is obtained from the
Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Operators desiring to have a permanent asphalt plant and/or a
concrete ready mix plant (more than 15 days per year) must meet the following
standards:
         (a)   Asphalt operations and concrete ready mix plants established
after the effective date of this chapter must encompass at least 40 acres under
permit.
         (b)   All setbacks as set forth in division (A) of this section must
be met unless it was in existence as a permanent asphalt plant on the effective
date of this chapter; in which case, it cannot expand unless it complies with
the setbacks set forth in division (A).
         (c)   All federal, state, and local air, water, and noise quality
standards must be met. An air quality permit and/or a stormwater permit must be
obtained from the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
         (d)   In the absence of a definitive plan to prevent surface and
groundwater contamination, asphalt plants must be equipped with a bag house so
there is no water discharge from the unit.
         (e)   Equipment must be screened and located in such a manner so as to
have the least environmental and aesthetic impact.
      (3)   A temporary asphalt plant in conjunction with a specific road
project will be allowed subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   All federal, state, and local air, water, and noise quality
standards must be met. An air quality permit must be obtained from the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
         (b)   A certificate of compliance/city permit must be obtained from
the Zoning Administrator.
         (c)   The processing equipment must be located in such a manner so as
to have the least environmental and aesthetic impact.
         (d)   Site selection shall not have a negative effect on the public
health, safety, and welfare.
         (e)   The City Council must approve the request.
         (f)   The asphalt plant shall not be on the property for more than 120
days.
         (g)   In the absence of a definitive plan to prevent surface and
groundwater contamination, asphalt plants must be equipped with a bag house so
there is no water discharge from the unit.
         (h)   No materials, outside of the designated right-of-way, may be
excavated or removed from the site without a conditional use permit for mining.
         (i)   A bond, in an amount determined by the Zoning Administrator,
must be posted to assure restoration of the site.
   (R)   Fuel storage.  All on-site storage of fuel must meet federal, state,
and local standards.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 6.1)
§ 156.18 RECLAMATION.
   (A)   Reclamation plan.  The applicant must submit a reclamation plan
consisting of graphic representation as required in §
156.16 along with written text. The plan must contain the following elements:
      (1)   Intent of reclamation;
      (2)   Methods and processes of reclamation;
      (3)   Initial condition of mining site;
      (4)   Limits of various operational areas;
      (5)   Phasing and timing of operation and reclamation, including areas to
be stripped of overburden;
      (6)   Final condition of site, including proposed contours and potential
development plan;
      (7)   Relation of final site condition to adjoining land forms and
drainage features;
      (8)   Relation of reclaimed site to planned or established uses of
surrounding land;
      (9)   A plan for maintenance of reclaimed area; and
      (10)   A detailed cost estimate of reclamation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 7.1)
   (B)   Timing. Restoration should proceed in a continuous manner and must be
subject to review and approval at each annual inspection and at the end of the
permit period.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 7.2)
   (C)   Excavations; water accumulation areas. Excavations resulting in the
accumulation of substantial water areas after rehabilitation must meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   The water depth must not be less than 3 feet measured from the low
water mark, unless a plan for creation of a wetland or marsh has been approved.
      (2)   All banks shall be sloped to the water line at a slope which shall
not be steeper than 4 feet horizontal to 1 foot vertical.
      (3)   All banks shall be surfaced with soil of a quality at least equal
to the topsoil of land areas immediately surrounding and to a depth of at least
4 inches; sodding or seeding and mulching is also required. Mulch must be
properly anchored.
      (4)   Topsoil as required by division (C)(3) above shall be planted with
trees, shrubs, legumes, or grasses;
      (5)   Slopes on reclaimed areas shall not be steeper than 4 feet
horizontal to 1 foot vertical, except in cases where non-erosion conditions are
present and the City Council approves the reclamation plan.
      (6)   In man-made groundwater lakes, the bottom contour shall be
gradually sloping from the shoreline to the deepest portion of the water body,
a maximum slope of 6 feet horizontal to 1 foot vertical for at least 100 feet
from the proposed shoreline toward the center of the water body. Beyond 100
feet in horizontal distance, the slope of the bottom contours may be no steeper
than 3:1.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 7.3)
   (D)   Excavations; grading or backfill.  Excavations not resulting in water
areas after rehabilitation but which must be graded or backfilled, shall meet
the following requirements:
      (1)   Fill shall be inspected and certified as being clean (free from
volatile organic compounds and heavy metals) before being used for reclamation.
Organic soil shall be used only for topsoil;
      (2)   The grading or backfilling shall be made with non-noxious,
nonflammable, noncombustible solids;
      (3)   The graded or backfilled area shall not collect or permit stagnant
water to remain therein;
      (4)   The peaks and depressions of the area shall be reduced to a gently
rolling topography in substantial conformity to the land area immediately
surround and which will minimize erosion due to rainfall;
      (5)   The graded or backfilled area shall be surfaced with soil of a
quality at least equal to the topsoil of land areas immediately surrounding,
and to a depth at least 4 inches;
      (6)   The topsoil as required by division (C) above shall be planted with
trees, shrubs, legumes, or grasses;
      (7)   Slopes on reclaimed areas shall not be steeper than 4 feet
horizontal to 1 foot vertical, except in cases where non-erodible conditions
are present and the Planning Commission/City Council approves the reclamation
plan; and
      (8)   All rehabilitation areas which are planned for building purposes
shall have a final elevation at least 10 feet above the normal ordinary
groundwater level. If public sewer is not available, plans for on-site septic
systems must be considered. If area is backfilled for purposes of future
development, the soil must be compacted, and subsequently tested by a
registered soils engineer and approved.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 7.4)
   (E)   Drainage. Reclamation shall proceed in such a way that natural and
storm drainage, where it enters and leaves the premises, shall be altered only
to the least degree necessary to carry out excavation and related activities.
Any alteration of natural and storm drainage shall not adversely affect public
roads or neighboring uses.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 7.5)
   (F)   Cover and planting. The reclamation area shall be planted with grass,
trees, shrubs, or other vegetation to prevent erosion and provide for screening
and natural beauty. Technical assistance and soils data should be obtained from
the County Agricultural Agent, appropriate state and federal officials,
Conservation Districts, and the nearest Soil Conservation Service office.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 7.6)
   (G)   Topsoil.  When topsoil is stripped or removed, it must be set aside on
the site for re-spreading over the excavated area. These overburden stockpiles
must be used to minimize the effects of erosion of wind or water upon public
roads, streams, or adjacent land uses and shall not be sold or removed from the
property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 7.7)
   (H)   Removal of structures. Within a period of 6 months after the
termination of a mining operation, or within 6 months after abandonment of the
operation for a period of 6 months, or within 6 months after expiration of a
sand and gravel pit, all building and other structures not otherwise allowed
under the Zoning Regulations must be removed from the property and the property
restored in conformance with the reclamation plan.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 7.8)
§ 156.19 TERMINATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any permit granted pursuant to this chapter may be revoked for a
violation of any provisions of this chapter or any conditions of the permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 10.1)
   (B)   Revocation shall not occur earlier than 10 city working days from the
time written notice of revocation is served upon the permittee or if a hearing
is requested, until written notice of the Planning Commission/City Council
action has been served on the permittee. Notice to the permittee shall be
served personally or by registered or certified mail at the address designed in
the permit application. The written notice of revocation shall contain the
effective date of the revocation, the facts which support nature of the
violation or violations constituting the basis of the revocation, the facts
which support the conclusion that a violation or violations have occurred, and
a statement that if the permittee desires to appeal, he or she must, within 10
working days, exclusive of the day of service, file a request for a hearing.
The hearing request shall be in writing, stating the grounds for appeal and
served personally or by registered or certified mail on the Zoning
Administrator by midnight of the tenth city working day following service.
Following the receipt of a request for hearing, the Zoning Administrator shall
set a time and place for the hearing, which hearing shall be conducted in
accordance with the procedures set forth in §
159.023.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 10.2)
§ 156.20 INSPECTIONS; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In the event of a violation or threatened violation of any of the
terms of this chapter, the city may take appropriate action to enforce this
chapter, including application for injunctive relief, action to compel
performance or other appropriate action to court if necessary to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate the violations or threatened violations. Upon
motion, the court may award costs, disbursements and reasonable attorney's fees
and witness fees, which costs and fees can be assessed against the land.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 9.2)
   (B)   Whenever necessary to enforce any of the provisions of this chapter or
whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that a violation of this chapter
has occurred or is about to occur, an authorized agent of the city may enter
any building or upon any premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same
or to perform any duties imposed by this chapter, provided that if the building
or premises be occupied, the authorized agent shall first present proper
credentials and demand entry and if the building or premises be unoccupied,
shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons
having charge or control of the building or premises and demand entry. If such
entry is refused, the city shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law
to secure entry, including administrative and judicial search warrants.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 9.3)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Any firm, person or corporation who violates any of the provisions of these
regulations shall be guilty of a full misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be subject to a fine and/or imprisonment as provided by law. Each day
that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 901 § 9.1)
CHAPTER 157: INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
157.01   Intent and purpose; authorization
   
157.02   Administration
   
157.03   Enforcement
   
157.04   Separability; particular property
   
157.05   Definitions
Planning and General Regulations
   
157.15   General requirements
   
157.16   Prohibitions
   
157.17   Permits
   
157.18   Inspections
   
157.19   Site evaluation
   
157.20   Soil testing
   
157.21   Sewage flow determination
Construction Requirements
   
157.35   Sewage tanks
   
157.36   Distribution of effluent
   
157.37   Dosing of effluent
   
157.38   Final treatment and disposal
   
157.39   Alternative systems
   
157.40   Experimental systems
   
157.41   Maintenance
   
157.42   System abandonment
 
   
157.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE; AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall regulate the location, design, installation, use,
and maintenance of individual sewage treatment systems in all areas of the
city. This chapter is authorized under M.S. §§ 115.55 and 115.56 and M.S.
Chapter 145A, as they may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
      (1)   To protect the public health and safety of the residents of the
city;
      (2)   To regulate the location, design, installation, use, and
maintenance of individual sewage treatment systems so as to prevent
contamination of the surface and groundwater within the city;
      (3)   To protect individual water supply wells of the city from
contamination by inadequate, improperly designed, located, installed, or
maintained individual sewage treatment systems; and
      (4)   To provide for the orderly development of areas of the city which
are not served by central public waste treatment systems and to reduce the need
to install central public systems in areas where they are not now currently
planned.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 1.2)
§ 157.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply and be in effect in all areas of the city
which has adopted ordinances that comply with M.S. § 115.55, as it may be
amended from time to time, and are as strict as this chapter. The City Building
Department shall be the Administrator of these regulations.
      (1)   The Department or its agent shall be qualified and certified by the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency as competent in the design, evaluation, and
inspection of individual sewage treatment systems.
      (2)   If the Department finds that, by reason of exceptional
circumstances, the strict enforcement of any provisions of this chapter would
cause undue hardship or that strict conformity with the standard would be
unreasonable, impractical, or not feasible under the circumstances, the
Department may permit modifications in individual cases based on conditions it
may prescribe for prevention, control, or abatement of pollution.
      (3)   Consistent with city regulations, the Lakeland Planning Commission/
City Council shall hear and decide appeals of any order, decision, or
determination made by the Department regarding the enforcement of this chapter.
Appeals of any administrative decisions or determination may be filed by any
person.
      (4)   Consistent with city regulations, the Lakeland Planning Commission/
City Council shall hear and decide all requests for variance to the
requirements of this chapter. Pursuant to Minn. Rules 7080.0305, as it may be
amended from time to time, variance to decrease the 3-foot to vertical
separation required beneath the distribution medium and the saturated soil to
bedrock must be approved by the Commissioner of the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency in accordance with Minn. Rules 7080.0030, Subp. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 3.1)
   (B)   The standards in this chapter are not intended to cover water systems
treating industrial or animal waste or other waste that may contain hazardous
materials.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 3.2)
   (C)   All individual sewage treatment system installed subsequent to the
adoption of this chapter and all alterations, extensions, modifications, or
repairs to existing systems irrespective of the date of original installation
shall be regulated in accordance with all requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 3.3)
   (D)   Any existing system which is a cesspool or leaching pit or which shows
evidence of sewage discharge to surface water, sewage discharge to ground
surface, sewage backup, or any other situation with the potential to
immediately and adversely affect or threaten public health or safety is hereby
declared to be a public health nuisance and shall be considered an imminent
threat to public health and safety and shall be repaired, upgraded, replaced,
or its use discontinued within 30 days of notice and order to comply by the
Department. Any further discharge of effluent must be stopped immediately (by
such methods as reducing or stopping all water use or pumping the tank as
necessary) until such time as the system is corrected.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 3.4)
   (E)   Any individual sewage treatment system or component thereof,
irrespective of the date of original installation, which is not located,
constructed, installed, or maintained in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter shall be replaced or otherwise brought into compliance within 90 days
of notice and order to comply by the Department. An existing system that is not
otherwise considered an imminent threat to public health and which was
constructed under a permit need not be upgraded, repaired, replaced, or its use
discontinued notwithstanding the fact that, at the time of a compliance
inspection, there appears to be less than the required 3-foot separation
between the system bottom and mottled soil.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 3.5)
   (F)   Individual sewage treatment systems serving other establishments or
facilities licensed or otherwise regulated by the city shall conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 3.6)
   (G)   Industrial wastewater systems and individual sewage treatment system
serving more than 20 persons (1,200 gallons per day) are regulated by the State
Environmental Protection Agency as Class V. injection wells under C.F.R. Title
40 Part 144.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 3.7)
   (H)   When a single individual sewage treatment system, or group of
individual sewage treatment systems, is located on adjacent properties and
under single ownership, the owner or owners shall make application for and
obtain a state disposal system permit from Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
if the individual sewage treatment system or group of systems is designed to
treat an average design flow greater than 10,000 gallons per day.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 3.8)
   (I)   Any new or existing system which discharges to surface waters or the
ground surface must obtain either an NPDES or an SDS permit from the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency and shall comply with all NPDES or SDS requirements.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 3.9)
   (J)   Any individual sewage treatment system requiring approval of the State
of Minnesota shall also comply with this chapter and all local codes and
ordinances.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 3.10)
   (K)   Where work requiring a permit under this chapter has commenced without
first having obtained a permit, work shall be ordered to stop until all permit
requirements have been met and a permit for installation of a system has been
approved.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 3.11)
   (L)   To enforce this chapter, the Department or its authorized agent may
enter a building, property, or a place where there is reason to suspect a
system is failing to properly treat or dispose of sewage.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 3.12)
   (M)   Fees for permits, inspections, or other services rendered under this
chapter shall be established by the City Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 3.13)
§ 157.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In the event of a violation or threatened violation of this chapter,
the Department, in addition to other remedies, may request appropriate actions
or proceeding to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate the violations or
threatened violations. In addition, written notice in the form of a license
complaint may be made to the Commissioner of the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 19.2)
   (B)   In cases where a public health nuisance has been determined to exist,
the Department may institute enforcement action under the Local Public Health
Act, M.S. § 145A, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 19.3)
§ 157.04 SEPARABILITY; PARTICULAR PROPERTY.
   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the application
of any provisions of this regulation to a particular property, building, or
structure, the judgment shall not affect the application of the provisions to
any other property, building, or structure not specifically included in the
judgment.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 20.1)
§ 157.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABSORPTION AREA. The areas below a mound that is designed to absorb sewage
tank effluent.
   ADDITIVE, INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A product which is added to
the wastewater or to the system to improve the performance of an individual
sewage treatment system.
   AEROBIC TANK.  Any sewage tank which uses the principle of oxidation to
decompose sewage by introducing air into the sewage.
   ALTERNATIVE SITE. The portion of real property that is designated by a
licensed individual sewage treatment system (ISTS) professional and approved by
the city to be protected from all vehicular traffic, construction, and other
disturbances. The site must be maintained in its original, natural soil
condition so a future individual sewage treatment system or device may be
constructed which meets all requirements when the original ISTS malfunctions,
becomes nonrepairable, or when it fails to comply with the regulations.
   ALTERNATIVE SYSTEM. An individual sewage treatment system employing the
methods and devices presented in §
157.39.
   AS-BUILT. Drawings and documentation specifying the final in-place location,
size, and type of all system components. These records identify the results of
materials testing and describe the conditions during construction. AS-BUILT
also contains a certified statement.
   AT-GRADE SYSTEMS. A pressurized soil treatment system where sewage tank
effluent is dosed to a drainfield rock bed which is constructed on original
soil at the ground surface and covered by loamy soil materials.
   BAFFLE. A device installed in a septic tank for proper operation of the tank
and to provide maximum retention of solids, and includes vented sanitary tees
and submerged pipes in addition to those devices that are normally called
BAFFLES.
   BEDROCK. The layer of parent material which is consolidated and unweathered.
BEDROCK also includes layers of which greater than 50% by volume consists of
unweathered in-place consolidated BEDROCK fragments.
   BEDROOM. Any room or unfinished area within a dwelling that might reasonably
be used as a sleeping room.
   BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof and
used or built for the shelter or enclosure of any person, animal, or property
of any kind. For purpose of this chapter, BUILDING includes any structure whose
foundation could be damaged and structural integrity jeopardized by the seepage
of sewage or sewage tank effluent.
   BUILDING DRAIN.  The part of the lowest piping of the draining system which
receives the sewage discharge inside the walls of the building and conveys it
to the building sewer beginning at least 1 foot outside the building footings.
   BUILDING SEWER.  The part of the drainage system which extends from the end
of the building drain and conveys its discharge to an individual sewage
treatment system.
   CERTIFIED STATEMENT. A statement signed by a licensed installer or qualified
employee certifying that work was completed in accordance with applicable
requirements.
   CESSPOOL.  An underground pit or seepage tank into which raw household
sewage or other untreated liquid waste is discharged and from which the liquid
seeps into the surrounding soil, bedrock, or other soil materials.
   CHAMBERED SYSTEM. A soil treatment system where sewage tank effluent is
discharged to a buried structure creating an enclosed open space with the
original solid surface to act as a surface for the infiltration of sewage tank
effluent.
   CLEAN SAND.  A soil texture composed of weight of at least 25% very coarse,
coarse, and medium sand varying in size from 2.00 millimeters (sieve size 10)
to 0.25 millimeters (sieve size 60), less than 40% fine or very fine sand
ranging in size between 0.25 millimeters and 0.05 millimeter (sieve size 270),
and no more than 10% smaller than 0.05 millimeters and no larger than 2.00
millimeters. CLEAN SAND also means a soil texture which meets American Society
for Testing and Materials (ASTM) specifications C-33 (Fine Aggregate for
Concrete) or Minnesota Department of Transportation (MNDOT) specification 3126
(Fine Aggregate for Portland Cement Concrete). The ASTM specification is found
in the 1994 Annual Book of ASTM Standards, volume 4.02, which is incorporated
by reference. This document is provided by the American Society for Testing and
Materials located at 100 Bar Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959.
The MNDOT specifications is found in the MNDOT Standard Specifications for
Construction, 1988 edition, and the May 2, 1994, Supplemental Specifications
which are incorporated by reference. These documents are provided by the
Minnesota Department of Transportation located at 395 John Ireland Boulevard,
St. Paul, MN 55155. All references can be found at the Minnesota State Law
Library, Judicial Center, 25 Constitution Avenue, St. Paul, MN 55155. These
documents are not subject to frequent change.
   COMPLIANCE INSPECTION. Any evaluation, investigation, inspection, or other
such process to make conclusions, recommendations, or statements regarding an
individual sewage treatment system to reasonably assure an individual sewage
treatment system is in compliance with regulations.
   DEPARTMENT. The City Building Department.
   DISCLOSURE. Any conclusions or statements regarding an ISTS made by the
owner of a property with or served by an ISTS to fulfill the requirements of
M.S. § 115.55, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time.
   DISTRIBUTION BOX.  A device designed to concurrently and equally distribute
sewage tank effluent by gravity to a soil treatment system.
   DISTRIBUTION DEVICE. A device used to receive and transfer effluent from a
supply pipe to distribution pipes or down slope supply pipes, or both. These
devices may also be known as drop boxes, valve boxes, distribution boxes, or
manifolds.
   DISTRIBUTION MEDIUM. The material used to distribute the sewage tank
effluent within a soil treatment system. This medium includes drainfield rock,
gravel-less drainfield pipe in a geotextile wrap or a chambered system.
   DISTRIBUTION PIPES. Perforated pipes that are used to distribute sewage tank
effluent into a distribution medium.
   DNR. The Minnesota Department of Natural Resources.
   DOMESTIC WASTE. See definition of Sewage.
   DOSING CHAMBER or PUMP PIT or WET WELL. A tank or separate compartment
following the sewage tank which serves as a reservoir for the dosing device.
   DOSING DEVICE. A pump, siphon, or other device that discharges sewage tank
effluent from the dosing chamber to the soil treatment system.
   DRAINFIELD ROCK. Igneous rock, or similar insoluble, durable, and decay-
resistant material between 3/4 inch and 2-1/2 inches in size with no more than
5% by weight passing a 3/4-inch sieve and no more than 1% by weight passing a
number 200 sieve. Materials greater than 2-1/2 inches in size shall not exceed
5% by weight.
   DROP BOX.  A distribution device used for the serial gravity application of
sewage tank effluent to a soil treatment system.
   DWELLING.  Any building or place used or intended to be used by human
occupants as single- family or 2-family residence.
   EXPERIMENTAL SYSTEM. Any system which is considered new technology with
limited data on reliability.
   FAILING SYSTEM. Any system that discharges sewage to a seepage pit,
cesspool, drywell, or leaching pit and any system with less than 3 feet of soil
or sand between the bottom of the distribution medium and the saturated soil
level or bedrock. In addition, any system posing an imminent threat to public
health or safety shall be considered FAILING.
   GAS DEFLECTING BAFFLE. An obstructing device on the septic tank outlet that
limits the escape of solids that are carried by septic tank gases.
   GRAVEL-LESS DRAINFIELD PIPE. A distribution medium consisting of a
corrugated distribution pipe encased in a geotextile wrap installed in a
trench.
   GREY WATER.  Sewage that does not contain toilet waste. Liquid waste from a
dwelling or other establishment produced by bathing, laundry, culinary
operation, and from floor drains associated with these sources is considered
GREY WATER.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any substance which, when discarded, meets the definition
of hazardous waste in Minn. Rules Chapter 7045, as it may be amended from time
to time.
   HOLDING TANK. A watertight tank for storage of sewage until it can be
transported to a point of approved treatment and disposal.
   IMMINENT THREAT TO PUBLIC HEALTH OR SAFETY. Situations with the potential to
immediately and adversely impact or threaten public health or safety. At a
minimum, cesspools, ground surface or surface water discharges and systems
causing sewage backup into a dwelling or other establishment shall constitute
an IMMINENT THREAT.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A sewage treatment system, or part
thereof, serving a dwelling or other establishment, or group thereof, and using
sewage tanks or advanced treatment followed by soil treatment and disposal.
   INVERT. The lowest point of a channel inside a pipe.
   LIQUID CAPACITY. The liquid volume of a sewage tank below the invert of the
outlet pipe.
   MOTTLING. A zone of chemical and reduction activity, appearing as splotchy
patches of red, brown, or gray in the soil. In subsoils with a color value of 4
or more, the term MOTTLING also includes soils having matrix colors with a
chroma of 2 or less as described in Keys to Soil Taxonomy, 5th Edition, 1992
Soil Management Support Services, Technical Monograph No. 19, which is
incorporated by reference. This document is provided by the Agency for
International Development, United States Department of Agriculture Soil
Conservation Service, and Soil Management Support Services. The document was
printed by Pocahontas Press, Inc., P.O. Drawer F, Blacksburg, Virginia 24063-
1020. It can be found at the Minnesota State Law Library, Judicial Center, 25
Constitution Avenue, St. Paul, MN 55155. This document is not subject to
frequent change.
   MOUND SYSTEM.  A system where the soil treatment area is built above the
natural elevation of the soil to overcome limits imposed by proximity to
saturated soil or bedrock, or by rapidly or slowly permeable soils.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Installing or constructing a new individual sewage
treatment system in its entirety; or altering, extending, or adding capacity to
an existing individual sewage treatment system.
   NOTICE OF NONCOMPLIANCE. A document written and signed by a qualified
employee or licensee after a compliance inspection which gives notice that an
individual sewage treatment system is not in compliance with these regulations.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL. The boundary of water basins, watercourses,
public waters and wetlands, and:
      (1)   An elevation delineating the highest water level that has been
maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly the point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial;
      (2)   For watercourses, the elevation of the top of the bank of the
channel; and
      (3)   For reservoirs and flowage, the operating elevation of the normal
summer pool.
   ORIGINAL SOIL. Naturally occurring, inorganic soil that has not been moved,
smeared, compacted, nor manipulated with construction equipment.
   OTHER ESTABLISHMENT. Any public or private structure other than a dwelling
which generates sewage.
   OWNER. Any person having possession of, control over, or title to property
with an individual sewage treatment system.
   PERCOLATION RATE. The time rate of drop of a water surface in a test hole as
specified in §
157.20(I).
   PERMITS.  A building, construction, sanitary, planning, zoning, or other
such PERMIT issued for new construction, replacement, repair, alteration, or
extension of an individual sewage treatment system. PERMIT also means a permit
issued for the addition of a bedroom or bathroom on property served by an
individual sewage treatment system.
   PERMITTEE. Any person who is named on a permit issued pursuant to these
regulations.
   PERMITTING AUTHORITY.  Any unit of government, state agency, or any
authorized representative who administers or enforces these regulations through
permitting.
   PLASTIC LIMIT. A soil moisture content below which the soil may be
manipulated for purposes of installing a soil treatment system, and above which
manipulation will cause compaction and puddling. The soil moisture content at
the PLASTIC LIMIT can be measured by American Society for Testing and Materials
(ASTM) Test Number D4318-84.
   PREVIOUSLY DEVELOPED SITE. Land already containing a dwelling or other
establishment.
   PRIVY. An above-ground structure with an underground cavity meeting the
requirements of §
157.39(E), which is used for the storage or treatment and disposal of toilet
waste, specifically excluding water for flushing and grey water.
   PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE. Any activity or failure to act that adversely
affects the public health.
   PUBLIC WATER. Any PUBLIC WATERS or wetlands as defined in M.S. § 103G.005,
Subds. 15 and 19, as it may be amended from time to time, or identified as
PUBLIC WATERS or wetlands by the inventory prepared pursuant to M.S. §
103G.201, as it may be amended from time to time.
   QUALIFIED EMPLOYEE. An employee of the Department who meets the minimum
criteria for employment as an ISTS professional and who conducts site
evaluations or inspects individual sewage treatment system as part of
employment duties.
   REPLACEMENT. The replacement of an existing sewage tank, holding tank,
dosing chamber, artificial drainage, privy, collector system, or soil treatment
system.
   REQUIRED ABSORPTION WIDTH. The width, measured in the direction of the
original land slope and perpendicular to the original contours, which is
required for the sewage tank effluent in infiltrate into the original soil
according to the allowable loading rates in §
157.38,
Table V.
   RESTAURANTS. Any place where food is prepared and intended for individual
portion service, regardless of whether consumption is on or off the premises or
whether there is a charge for the food. This definition does not include
private homes.
   SATURATED SOIL.  The highest elevation in the soil where periodically
depleted oxygen levels occur because of soil void being filled with water.
SATURATED SOIL is evidenced by presence of soil mottling or other information.
   SEEPAGE BED. An excavated area larger than 36 inches in width which contains
drainfield rock and has more than 1 distribution pipe.
   SEEPAGE PIT or LEACHING PIT or DRY WELL. An underground pit into which
sewage tank discharges effluent and from which the liquid seeps into the
surrounding soils.
   SEPTAGE. Solids and liquids removed during periods maintenance of an
individual sewage treatment system, or solids and liquids which are removed
from toilet waste treatment devices or a holding tank.
   SEPTIC TANK.  Any watertight, covered receptacle designed and constructed to
receive the discharge of sewage from a building sewer, separate solids from
liquids, digest organic matter, and store liquids through a period of
detention, and allow the clarified liquids to discharge to a soil treatment
system.
   SEWAGE. Any water-carried domestic waste, exclusive of footing and roof
drainage and chemically treated hot tub or pool water, from any industrial,
agricultural, or commercial establishment, or any dwelling or other structure.
Domestic waste includes liquid waste produced by toilets, bathing, laundry,
culinary operations, and the floor drains associated with these sources. Animal
waste and commercial or industrial waste are not considered domestic waste.
   SEWAGE FLOW. Flow as determined by measurement of actual water use or, if
actual measurements are not available, by the best available data provided.
   SEWAGE TANK. A watertight tank used in the treatment of sewage and includes
but is not limited to septic tanks and aerobic tanks.
   SEWAGE TANK EFFLUENT. The liquid which flows from a septic or aerobic tank
under normal operation.
   SHORELAND.  Land located within the following distance from public waters:
1,000 feet from the ordinary high water mark of a lake, pond, or flowage; and
300 feet from a river or stream or the landward extent of a floodplain
designated by ordinance on the river or streams, whichever is greater.
   SITE. The area bounded by the dimensions required for the property location
of the soil treatment system.
   SLOPE. The ratio of the vertical rise or fall to horizontal distance.
   SOIL CHARACTERISTICS, LIMITING. Those soil characteristics which preclude
the installation of a standard system, including evidence of water table or
bedrock and percolation rates faster than 1/10 or slower than 60 minutes per
inch.
   SOIL TEXTURAL CLASSIFICATION. Soil particle sizes or textural
classifications as specified in the Soil Survey Manual, Handbook No. 18, United
States Department of Agriculture, 1993, incorporated by reference.
   SOIL TREATMENT AREA. The area of trench, at-grade rock bed, or seepage bed
bottoms which is in direct contact with the distribution medium of the soil
treatment system. For mounds, that area to the edges of the required absorption
widths and extending 5 feet beyond the ends of the rock layer.
   SOIL TREATMENT SYSTEM. A system where sewage tank effluent is treated and
disposed of into the soil by percolation and filtration, and includes trenches,
seepage beds, drainfields, at-grade systems, and mound systems.
   ST. CROIX RIVER LAND USE DISTRICT.  Those lands designated by the
Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources as the protected land
corridor along the St. Croix River.
   STANDARD SYSTEM. An individual sewage treatment system employing a building
sewer, sewage tank, and the soil treatment system consisting of trenches,
seepage beds, or mounds.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any nonperforated pipe whose purpose is the transport of sewage
tank effluent. SUPPLY PIPES must meet or exceed the requirements established in
these regulations.
   SURFACE WATER FLOODING.  The 100-year floodplain along rivers and streams as
defined by the DNR, or in the absence of such data, as defined by the largest
flood of record; on lakes, high water levels as determined or recorded by the
DNR or, in the case of no DNR record, by local records or experience. Other
SURFACE WATER FLOODING or high water areas will be determined based on local
information.
   TEN-YEAR FLOOD. The flood which can be expected to occur, on an average, of
once in 10 years; or the elevation to which floodwaters have a 10% change of
rising in any given year.
   TOILET WASTE. Waste commonly disposed of in toilets including fecal matter,
urine, toilet paper, and any water used for flushing, and specifically
excluding sanitary napkins, tampons, and disposable diapers.
   TOILET WASTE TREATMENT DEVICES. Privies and other devices including
incinerating, composting, biological, chemical, recirculating, or holding
toilets.
   TRENCH. An area excavated from 18 to 36 inches in width which contains
drainfield rock or other distribution medium.
   VALVE BOX. A watertight structure designed for alternate distribution of
effluent to a soil treatment system.
   WATER TABLE. The highest elevations in the soil where all voids are filled
with water, as evidenced by presence of water or soil mottling or other
information.
   WATERTIGHT. A device constructed so that no water can get into or out of the
device except through designed inlets and outlets.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 2.1)
PLANNING AND GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 157.15 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An individual sewage treatment system, or systems, shall be designed
to receive all sewage from the dwelling, building, or other establishment
served.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 7.1)
   (B)   A sewage treatment system and each component thereof shall be located
and installed to ensure that, with proper maintenance, it will function in a
sanitary manner and will not create a nuisance nor contaminate any domestic
water supply well. Location shall consider lot size and configuration, proposed
structures and other improvements, topography, surface drainage, soil
conditions, depth to groundwater, geology, existing and proposed water supply
wells, accessibility for maintenance, and potential expansion or replacement of
the system.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 7.2)
   (C)   The design, construction, and location of and the materials for use in
building sewers shall be in accordance with the Minnesota State Building Code,
Minn. Rules Chapter 1300, which incorporates by reference portions of the
Minnesota Plumbing Code, Minn. Rules Chapter 4715, and specific provisions of
the Minnesota Rules relating to wells and borings, Minn. Rules Chapter 4725, as
they may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 7.3)
   (D)   An individual sewage treatment system defined as a collector, an
alternative system, or a system intended to serve other establishments shall
not be installed unless a water meter is provided to measure the flow to the
treatment system. For metered systems that have sewage tank effluent pumped to
a soil treatment area, an electrical event counter must also be installed.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 7.4)
§ 157.16 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Sewage, sewage tank effluent, or seepage from a soil treatment system
shall not be discharged into any well or boring as defined in Minn. Rules
Chapter 4725, as it may be amended from time to time, or any other excavation
in the ground.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 4.1)
   (B)   Footing or roof drainage and chemically treated hot tub and pool water
shall not enter any part of the system.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 4.2)
   (C)   Products containing hazardous waste and hazardous substances must not
be discharged to a system other than in normal amounts of household products
and cleaners designed for household use. Substances not intended for use in
household cleaning, including solvents, pesticides, flammables, photo finishing
chemicals, and dry cleaning chemicals must not be discharged to the system.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 4.3)
   (D)   Unless specifically permitted by the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency, sewage, sewage tank effluent or seepage from a soil treatment system
shall not be discharged to the ground surface or surface water.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 4.4)
   (E)   Uncontaminated clear water waste from geothermal heat pump
installations shall not be introduced into individual sewage treatment system.
This waste may be discharged to the ground surface or to a body of water;
however, in no case shall surface discharge be permitted where the discharge
encroaches on adjoining property or public way. Where subsurface disposal is
provided, the installation shall be separated from the required sewage
treatment site and shall be designed and sized as prescribed for a standard
soil treatment system.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 4.5)
   (F)   Cesspools, seepage pits, dry wells, and leeching pits shall not be
installed and shall not remain in operation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 4.6)
   (G)   Installation of systems in low swampy areas, drainage swales, or areas
subject to recurrent flooding is prohibited.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 4.7)
   (H)   Systems shall not be located within utility or drainage easements nor
within dedicated public or private right-of-way without proper approvals.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 4.8)
§ 157.17 PERMITS.
   (A)   No construction shall be allowed until the permit required for the
individual sewage treatment system has been issued.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 5.1)
   (B)   No additions, enlargements, improvements, or remodeling involving 50%
or more of the structure, or alterations that would affect the water use, such
as bedrooms, bathrooms, or additions to living space (excluding such areas as
screen porches, entry ways, decks, attics, patios, non-habitable storage space)
shall be allowed until the sewage treatment system has been determined to be
both adequate and conforming or a permit for a new treatment system has first
been issued.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 5.2)
   (C)   Permits shall be required for individual sewage treatment systems as
follows:
      (1)   All new installations of sewage tanks, treatment systems, and
components thereof;
      (2)   All repair, extension, replacement, or modification of existing
systems and components; and
      (3)   Any change in use of a facility served by an existing sewage
treatment system.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 5.3)
   (D)   Permits shall not be required for normal routine inspection and
maintenance of approved individual sewage treatment systems.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 5.4)
   (E)   Permit applications shall be made in writing on forms provided by the
Department and shall contain data, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Correct legal description of the property on which the proposed
work is to take place;
      (2)   Site plan, drawn to scale, showing the location of all proposed and
existing structures, property lines, water supply wells within 100 feet,
terrain feature such as blufflines, water bodies or water ways, buried
utilities, easements, and other unique features of the site;
      (3)   Soil test date, including soil boring logs, percolation test data
with field notes (where required) and location and identification of test area;
      (4)   Plans and details of proposed installation of work, including
engineering data and final design;
      (5)   Building plans showing existing and proposed room arrangements and
uses;
      (6)   For other than dwellings, calculated or measured water use rates,
occupancy and occupant load;
      (7)   In certain cases, a property survey may be required identifying
property characteristics and including such items as elevations, contour lines,
normal high water marks, and 10-year and 100-year flood elevations; and
      (8)   Evidence of compliance with state or other jurisdictions
regulations where applicable.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 5.5)
   (F)   No permit will be issued until a detailed system design is submitted
for the current proposed construction, including site plan and at least 1
current soil boring if there is reason to believe soil conditions have been
altered since the original soil testing.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 5.6)
   (G)   Permits shall be valid upon issuance and shall continue for a period
of 1 year. After 1 year, the permit may be renewed if no changes are proposed.
The renewal shall require reapplication and payment of the established fee.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 5.7)
   (H)   Permits issued under this chapter may be revoked upon written notice
by the Department when the permit has been issued based on erroneous or
inaccurate data supplied by the applicant or erroneous interpretation of the
law by a building official.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 5.8)
§ 157.18 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspection as required to determine compliance with this chapter shall
be performed by the Department or its authorized agent under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   Site inspections to verify and evaluate soil and site conditions
and to determine the suitability of soils and system design;
      (2)   Necessary investigation to determine compliance of existing systems
at the time of remodeling, alteration, or additions;
      (3)   For all new ISTS construction or replacement; and
      (4)   Mound systems require a minimum of 3 construction inspections:
         (a)   When the original soil under the mound has been roughened, but
prior to placement of the sand fill. Enough of the proposed sand fill must be
present to be viewed;
         (b)   After placement of rock and piping, but prior to cover; and
         (c)   When job is completed.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 6.1)
   (B)   Installation inspections shall be made prior to any work having been
covered by backfill.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 6.2)
   (C)   The licensed installer shall be responsible to notify the Department a
minimum of 24 hours prior to the time work is ready for inspection or
reinspection.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 6.3)
   (D)   Work which is backfilled prior to required inspection may be ordered
to be uncovered whenever necessary to determine compliance.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 6.4)
   (E)   If upon inspection any part of the system is determined not to be in
compliance with this chapter, written notice shall be provided by the
Department indicating the deficiency and the required corrections. Noted
deficiencies shall be properly corrected and reinspected before any work on the
project is continued.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 6.5)
   (F)   No system shall be placed or replaced in service until final
inspection has been completed and the system installation has been approved.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 6.6)
   (G)   The owner or occupant of a property shall be responsible to provide
access at reasonable time to the Department or its agent for the purpose of
performing inspections required under this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 6.7)
   (H)   The contractor, upon completion of installation, shall file with the
Department as-built drawings indicating the location of system components
dimensioned from a permanent reference point.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 6.8)
   (I)   If an inspection is conducted as a part of preparation of the
disclosure required by M.S. § 115.55, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time
to time, and the inspection is conducted by a party who is not the property
owner, the party must be licensed in accordance with MPCA rules and regulations
and the notice of compliance or noncompliance provided to the property owner
must also be provided to the city within 30 days of the inspection.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 6.9)
§ 157.19 SITE EVALUATION.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit for new construction,
remodeling, or alterations that would affect water use, such as bedrooms,
bathrooms, or additions to living space; or the issuance of a permit to
install, upgrade, repair, or alter an individual sewage treatment system; or
approval for subdivision of land, a site evaluation shall be made of all
proposed sites for sewage treatment systems shall be completed by the applicant
and reviewed and approved by the Department. The site evaluation shall consist
of a preliminary and field evaluation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 8.1)
   (B)   A preliminary evaluation shall consist of:
      (1)   Flow determination for the dwelling or other establishment;
      (2)   The investigation of the proposed or existing location of water
supply wells within 100 feet of the proposed ISTS, existing and proposed
building on the lot, and existing and proposed buried water pipes within 50
feet of the proposed system;
      (3)   Easements on the lot;
      (4)   Ordinary high water level of public waters;
      (5)   Ten-year floodplain designation and flooding elevation from
published data as available or from data which is acceptable to and approved by
the permitting authority or the DNR;
      (6)   Property lines;
      (7)   All required setbacks from the system;
      (8)   The soils map unit, applicable soil characteristics, and soil
suitability as determined by soil borings and percolation tests for each
proposed site or installation;
      (9)   Legal description and lot dimensions; and
      (10)   Name of property owners.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 8.2)
   (C)   A field evaluation shall consist of:
      (1)   Identifying lot lines, lot improvements, and easements;
      (2)   A description of the percent and direction of the slope at the
proposed system location, vegetation type, and evidence of disturbed or
compacted soil or flooding or run-on potential and landscape position;
      (3)   Depth to the highest known or calculated groundwater table or
bedrock;
      (4)   The existence of lowlands, local surface depressions, and rock
outcrops; and
      (5)   All legal setback requirements from existing and proposed
buildings; property lines; sewage tanks; soil treatment systems; water supply
wells; buried water pipes and utility lines; the ordinary high water level of
public waters; and the location of all soil treatment systems and water supply
wells on adjoining lots within 100 feet of the proposed soil treatment system,
sewage tank, and water supply well.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 8.3)
   (D)   A written report on the site evaluation shall be prepared covering, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   All of divisions (B) and (C) above;
      (2)   Dates of preliminary and field evaluations;
      (3)   A map drawn to scale or dimension, with a north arrow, and
including the following:
         (a)   A horizontal and vertical reference point of soil observation
and percolation tests and distance to all required setbacks, lot improvements,
easements, ordinary high water mark of public waters, property lines, direction
and percent slope;
         (b)   The location of any unsuitable, disturbed/compacted areas; and
         (c)   The access route for tank maintenance.
      (4)   Estimated depth of seasonally saturated layer, bedrock, or flood
elevation, if appropriate;
      (5)   Proposed elevation of the bottom of the soil treatment system;
      (6)   Final soil sizing factor;
      (7)    Anticipated construction-related issues; and
      (8)   Name, address, telephone number, and signature of the individual
conducting the evaluation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 8.4)
§ 157.20 SOIL TESTING.
   (A)   Applicants for sewage treatment system permits, site, or subdivision
approval will be required to submit soil test data derived from soil borings
and percolation tests for each proposed site or installation. The minimum
testing shall be that necessary to verify suitable conditions for 2 complete
soil treatment systems. Large systems designed for 1,200 gallons per day or
more shall require a hydrogeologic investigation in accordance with §
157.39(G)(3).
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 9.1)
   (B)   All testing shall be conducted in accordance with the requirement of
this chapter and shall be done by qualified personnel, certified under the MPCA
training and certification program and licensed by the MPCA.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 9.2)
   (C)   All proposed sites for sewage treatment systems shall be protected by
fence or other methods as necessary to avoid excavations, construction
equipment, or other traffic that could affect the soil conditions.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 9.3)
   (D)   For subdivision testing, enough soil borings must be done to assure
that suitable soils exist for each lot for long-term sewage treatment.
Percolation tests are not required unless the permeability cannot be estimated
or there is reason to believe the soil is not original or has been compacted.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 9.4)
   (E)   Complete testing on each individual lot will be required prior to
permit issuance independent of any prior approved subdivision testing. A
minimum of 4 satisfactory soil borings outlining an area of 5,000 square feet
are required. Larger areas may be required where conditions of use, soils,
topography, or vegetation require.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 9.5)
   (F)   Where soil tests require a mound, testing and design must clearly show
suitable area for installation of 2 complete mounds. Where site conditions are
such that the only backup mound will likely be disturbed, the Department at its
discretion, may require both mounds to be constructed at once.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 9.6)
   (G)   Soil borings shall be made as follows:
      (1)   Borings shall be by auger or excavation and shall be staked and
protected until notification that the field evaluation has been completed.
Flite augers which are continuous or disturb extracted soil samples are not
allowed. Borings shall be made to a depth of at least 3 feet deeper than the
bottom of the proposed system or until bedrock or water table is encountered,
whichever is less.
      (2)   Any evidence of disturbed or compacted soil must be disclosed and
may result in the prohibition of utilizing that test area.
      (3)   Particular effort shall be made to determine the highest known
water table by recording the first occurrence of mottling observed in the hole,
or if mottling is not encountered, the open holes in clay or loam soils shall
be observed after standing undisturbed a minimum of 16 hours, and depth to
standing water, if present, shall be measured.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 9.7)
   (H)   A soil description shall be written for each soil observation at the
proposed site. Soils should be evaluated under adequate light conditions with
the soil in a moist state and including the following:
      (1)   The depth of each soil horizon measured from the ground surface.
Soil horizons are differentiated by changes in soil structure, soil texture,
soil color, mottling, bedrock, or any other characteristic which may affect
water percolation or treatment of effluent.
      (2)   The soil matrix and mottled color described per horizon by the
Munsell Soil Color Charts, 1992 revised edition, which is incorporated by
reference. This document is available from Macbeth Division, Kollmorgan
Instruments Corporation, Munsell Color, PO Box 230, Newburgh, New York 12551-
0230. It can be found at the Minnesota State Law Library, Judicial Center, 25
Constitution Avenue, St. Paul, MN 55155. This document is not subject to
frequent change.
      (3)   The soil texture described using the United States Department of
Agriculture (USDA) soil classification system as modified here:
Clay          = Clay, sand clay, silty clay
Clay loam     = Clay loam, sandy clay loam, silty clay loam
Loam          = Loam
Sandy loam    = Sand loam
Silt loam     = Silt loam, silt
Loamy sand    = loamy sand
Coarse sand   = coarse sand
(Medium) sand = (Medium) sand
Fine sand     = Fine and very fine sand
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 9.8)
   (I)   After soil borings have outlined the minimum area suitable soils,
percolation tests shall be made. The only exception to this requirement is for
sand soils clearly in the 5 MPI range. The design for sizing of systems in such
soils shall be 1.27 square feet per gallon. The requirements for percolation
tests are:
      (1)   Each test hole shall be 6 to 8 inches in diameter, have vertical
sides, and be bored or dug to a depth of the bottom of the proposed individual
sewage treatment system. Soil texture description shall be recorded noting
depths where texture changes occur.
      (2)   The bottom and sides of the hole shall be carefully scratched to
remove any smearing and to provide a natural soil surface into which water may
penetrate.
      (3)   All loose material shall be removed from the bottom of the test
hole and 2 inches of 1/4-inch to 3/4-inch gravel shall be added to protect the
bottom from scouring.
      (4)   The hole shall be carefully filled with clear water to minimum
depth of 12 inches over the soil at the bottom of the test hole and maintained
for no less than 4 hours. Failure to adequately saturate the test hole may
result in rejection of the test.
      (5)   The soil shall then be allowed to swell for at least 16 but no more
than 30 hours. In sandy soils, the saturation and swelling procedure shall not
be required and the test may proceed if 1 filling of the hole has seeped away
in less than 10 minutes.
      (6)   Measure the percolation rate as follows:
         (a)   In sandy soils, adjust the water depth to 8 inches over the soil
at the bottom of the test hole. From a fixed reference point, a drop in water
level shall be measured in inches to the nearest 1/16-inch at approximately 10-
minute intervals. Measurement can also be made by determining the time it takes
for the water level to drop 1 inch from an 8-inch reference point. If 8 inches
of water seeps away in less than 10 minutes, a shorter interval between
measurements shall be used, but in no case shall the water depth exceed 8
inches. The test shall continue until 3 consecutive percolation rate
measurements vary by a range of no more than 10%.
         (b)   In other soils, adjust the water depth to 8 inches over the soil
at the bottom of the test hole. From a fixed reference point, the drop in water
level shall be measured in inches to the nearest 1/16 inch at approximately 30-
minute intervals, refilling between measurements to maintain an 8-inch starting
head. The test shall continue until 3 consecutive percolation rate measurements
vary by a range of no more than 10%. The percolation rate can also be made by
observing the time it takes the water level to drop 1 inch from an 8-inch
reference point if a constant water depth has been maintained for a least 4
hours prior to the measurement.
      (7)   Calculate the percolation rate by dividing the time interval by the
drop in water level to obtain the percolation rate in minutes per inch. The
percolation rates which are within the 10% provision determined for each test
hole shall be averaged to determine the final percolation rate for that hole.
      (8)   The slower final percolation rate for all holes within the soil
treatment area shall be used for design.
      (9)   A percolation test shall not be run where frost exists below the
depth of the proposed soil treatment system.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 9.9)
§ 157.21 SEWAGE FLOW DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Where the construction of additional bedrooms, the installation of
mechanical equipment, or other factors likely to affect the operation of the
system can be reasonably anticipated, the installation of a system for the
anticipated need shall be required.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 10.1)
   (B)   For dwellings, the average daily sewage flow and the measured
percolation rate of the soil shall be used to size the soil treatment system.
Acceptable methods for estimating sewage flow are given in
Table I. The minimum daily sewage flow estimated for any dwelling shall provide
for at least 2 bedrooms. For multiple residential units, the estimated daily
sewage flow shall consist of the sum of the flows of each individual unit. If a
grey water system is employed, estimated sewage flow shall equal 60% of the
amount provided in
Table I.
 
Table I
Number of Bedrooms Gallons per Day
2                  300
3                  450
4                  600
5                  750
6                  900
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 10.2)
   (C)   For other establishments, average design flow shall be used to size
soil treatment systems. Maximum design flow shall be used to size sewage tanks.
Design flows shall be calculated using estimated or measured values for other
establishments according to the following:
      (1)   Estimated average and maximum design flows: the best available data
as provided by the Department shall be used if estimating the average and
maximum design flows.
      (2)   Measured average and maximum design flows:
         (a)   The average design flow shall be determined by averaging the
measured daily flows for a consecutive 7-day period in which the establishment
is at maximum capacity or use; and
         (b)   The maximum design flow shall be the anticipated peak daily
flow.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 10.3)
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 157.35 SEWAGE TANKS.
   (A)   All tanks, regardless of material or method of construction must:
      (1)   Be watertight;
      (2)   Be designed and constructed to withstand all lateral earth
pressures under saturated soil conditions with the tank empty;
      (3)   Be designed and constructed with adequate tensile and compressive
strength to withstand a minimum of 7 feet of saturated earth cover above the
tank top and manhole cover;
      (4)   Not be subject to corrosion or decay;
      (5)   Have the manufacturer's name, model number, and tank capacity in
gallons permanently displayed on the tank above the outlet pipe;
      (6)   Not be constructed on-site when saturated soil conditions during
construction are closer than 3 inches to the bottom of the excavation;
      (7)   Be protected against flotation under high water table conditions;
and
      (8)   Have a written and graphic label affixed to maintenance hole covers
of sewage tanks warning of the hazardous conditions inside the tanks.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 11.1)
   (B)   All tanks, regardless of material or method of construction, shall
conform to the following criteria:
      (1)   The liquid depth of any septic tank or compartment thereof shall
not be less than 24 inches.
      (2)   No tank or compartment thereof shall have an inside horizontal
dimension less than 24 inches.
      (3)   Baffles shall be installed at each inlet and outlet of the tank and
each compartment.
      (4)   The space in the tank between the liquid surface and the top of the
inlet and outlet baffles shall be not less than 20% of the total required
liquid capacity, except that in horizontal cylindrical tanks, this space shall
be not less than 15% of the total required liquid capacity.
      (5)   Inlet and outlet baffles shall be constructed of acid-resistant
concrete, acid-resistant fiberglass or plastic not subject to corrosion or
decay.
      (6)   Baffles must be integrally cast with the tank, affixed with a
permanent waterproof adhesive, or affixed with stainless steel connectors, top
and bottom. Sanitary tees, which are used as baffles, shall be affixed to the
inlet or outlet pipes with a permanent waterproof adhesive.
      (7)   The inlet baffle shall extend at least 6 inches but not more than
20% of the total liquid depth below the liquid surface and at least 1 inch
above the crown of the inlet sewer.
      (8)   The outlet baffle and the baffles between compartments shall extend
below the liquid surface a distance equal to 40% of the liquid depth except
that the penetration of the indicated baffles or sanitary tees for horizontal
cylindrical tanks shall be 35% of the total liquid depth. They also shall
extend above the liquid surface as required in division (B)(4) of this section.
In no case shall they extend less than 6 inches above the liquid surface. Gas
deflecting baffles shall be installed on the outlet of the final septic tank
which services an establishment.
      (9)   The top of the inlet baffle may extend through the top of the tank
or maintenance hole cover. The cap must be easily accessible.
      (10)   In a single compartmented tank, the inlet invert shall be at least
2 inches above the outlet invert.
      (11)   The inlet and outlet shall be located opposite each other along
the axis of maximum dimension. The horizontal distance between the nearest
points of the inlet and outlet baffles shall be a least 4 feet.
      (12)   Inlet baffles, other than sanitary tees, shall be no less than 6
inches or no more than 12 inches from the end of the inlet pipe to the nearest
point on the baffle. Outlet baffles, other than sanitary tees, shall be 6
inches measured from beginning of the outlet pipe to the nearest point on the
baffle. Sanitary tees used as inlet or outlet baffles shall be at least 4
inches in diameter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 11.2)
   (C)   Access to a septic tank shall be as follows:
      (1)   There shall be 1 or more manholes, at a minimum of 20 inches least
dimension, and located within 6 feet of all walls of the tank. The manhole
shall extend through the tank cover to a point within 6 inches of finished
grade. If the manhole is covered with less than 6 inches of soil, the cover
must be secured to prevent unauthorized access.
      (2)   There shall be an inspection pipe of at least 4 inches in diameter
over both the inlet and outlet baffles. The inspection pipe shall extend
through the tank cover or the maintenance hole cover, be secured, and be capped
flush with or above the finished grade. A downward projection of the centerline
of the inspection pipe shall be directed in line with the centerline of the
inlet or outlet device.
      (3)   An inspection pipe at least 4 inches in diameter must be located
between the inlet and outlet baffles for the purpose of evaluating the scum and
sludge accumulations. The inspection pipe must extend through either the tank
cover or manhole cover and must be capped flush with or above finished grade.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 11.3)
   (D)   A septic tank larger than 3,000 gallons shall be divided into 2 or
more compartments.
      (1)   When a septic tank is divided into 2 compartments, the volume of
the first compartment shall be between 1/2 and 2/3 of the total tank volume.
      (2)   When a septic tank is divided into 3 or more compartments, 1/2 of
the total volume shall be in the first compartment and the other half equally
divided in the other compartments.
      (3)   Connections between compartments shall be baffled to obtain
effective retention of scum and sludge. The submergence of the inlet and outlet
baffles of each compartment must be as specified in division (B)(7) and (8).
      (4)   Adequate venting shall be provided between compartments by baffles
or by an opening of at least 50 square inches near the top of the compartment
wall.
      (5)   Adequate access to each compartment shall be provided by 1 or more
maintenance holes, at least 20 inches in dimension, and located within 6 feet
of all walls of the tank. The maintenance hole shall extend through the top of
the tank compartment cover to a point between 0 and a 6-inch depth below
finished grade. If the maintenance hole is between 0 and 6 inches below
finished grade, the maintenance hole cover must be secured to prevent
unauthorized access.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 11.4)
   (E)   Where more than 1 tank is used to obtain the required liquid volume,
the tanks shall be connected in series. No more than 4 tanks in series can be
used to obtain the required liquid volume. The first tank shall be equal to or
larger than any subsequent tank in the series.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 11.5)
   (F)   The outlet pipe extending from the septic tank must not be of cast
iron, but must be of sound and durable construction, not subject to corrosion
or decay. The outlet pipe must meet the strength requirements of American
Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), Schedule 40 plastic pipe and must be
supported in a manner that there is no deflection during the backfilling and
subsequent settling of the soil between the edge of the septic tank and the
edge of the excavation. The soil around the pipe must be compacted to at least
the original density for a length of 3 feet beyond the edge of the tank
excavation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 11.6)
   (G)   Any liquid depth which is greater than 78 inches shall not be used
when calculating the septic tank capacity. Liquid capacity of septic tanks is
described as follows:
      (1)   For dwellings there shall be 2 septic tanks in series with the
liquid capacity based on the number of bedrooms contemplated in the dwelling;
such tanks shall be at least as large as the capacities in
Table II. The only exception to this requirement is for the upgrade of an
existing conforming system if the primary tank capacity is met and there is no
garbage disposal or sewage pump. System replacement shall require 2 tanks in
series.
Table II
Number of Bedrooms Tank Liquid Capacities (Gallons)
Table II
Number of Bedrooms                    Tank Liquid Capacities (Gallons)
2 or less                             1,000 and 500
3 or 4                                1,000 and 1,000
5 or 6                                1,500 and 1,000
7, 8, and 9                           2,000 and 1,000
                                      Septic tank shall be sized as an other
10 or more                            establishment with the second tank in
                                      series at least 50% of the capacity of
                                      the first tank
Multiple-family dwelling containing 2 Size shall be the sum of the individual
or more units                         dwelling unit requirements
 
      (2)   The liquid capacity of septic tanks serving other establishments
shall be sufficient to provide a sewage detention period of not less than 36
hours in the tank for maximum design flows of less than 1,500 gallons per day,
but in no instance shall the liquid capacity be less than 750 gallons. For
maximum design flows greater than 1,500 gallons per day, the minimum liquid
capacity shall equal 1,125 gallons per day plus 75% of the maximum design flow.
         (a)   For restaurants and laundromats, twice the liquid capacity
detailed above must be provided.
         (b)   For laundromats, the outlet baffle of the septic tank must be
submerged to a depth of 50%.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 11.7)
   (H)   A sewage pump must not deliver sewage to a 1-tank system if the pump
cycle delivers more than 1% of the liquid capacity of the tank. For systems
with multiple tanks, at least 2 tanks in series must be used, each having at
least the liquid capacity specified in this section. The volume of sewage
delivered in each pump cycle must not exceed 5% of the liquid capacity of the
first tank.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 11.8)
   (I)   The sewage tank shall be placed so that it is easily accessible for
the removal of liquids and accumulated solids. The soil cover over a tank shall
not exceed 5 feet. The sewage tank shall be placed on firm and settled soil
capable of bearing the weight of the tank and its contents. Sewage tanks shall
be set back as specified in
Table III, below. Sewage tanks shall not be placed in areas subject to flooding
or in floodplains delineated by local regulations adopted in compliance with
Minn. Rules, Chapter 6120, as it may be amended from time to time, or in areas
for which regional flood information is available from the DNR, except that in
areas where 10-year flood information is available from and/or approved by the
DNR, sewage tanks may be installed as an alternative system in accordance with
all provisions of §
157.39(C).
Table III
Minimum Setback Distances (Feet)
Feature Sewage Tank Soil Treatment Area
Table III
Minimum Setback Distances (Feet)
Feature                                         Sewage Tank Soil Treatment Area
Water supply well less than 50 feet deep and
not encountering at least 10 feet of impervious 50          100
material
Any other water supply well or buried water     50          50
suction pipe
Buried pipe distributing water under pressure   10          10
Occupied buildings and buildings with basements 10          20
or crawl spaces
Non-occupied structures                         5           10
Property lines                                  10*         10*
Above-ground swimming pools                     10          10
In-ground swimming pools                        10          10
The Ordinary High Water Mark of:
   Natural environment lakes and streams     150*        150*
   Recreation development lakes and streams  75*         75*
   General development lakes and streams     75*         75*
   All unclassified waters                   75*         75*
   St. Croix River Rural Districts           150*        150*
   St. Croix River Urban Districts           100*        100*
Blufflines:
   St. Croix River blufflines                40*         40*
   Shoreland and blufflines                  20*         20*
* These standards may be modified through the variance process.
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 11.9) (Am. Ord. 7489, passed 5-16-2000)
   (J)   Aerobic tank treatment systems shall comply with the general
requirements for sewage tanks set forth in this chapter, and with the
following:
      (1)   The treatment system including each individual unit or compartment
shall be easily accessible for inspection and maintenance and shall be provided
with secured covers.
      (2)   Aerobic tanks shall comply with National Sanitation Foundation
(NSF) Standard No. 40 (November 1990) which is incorporated by reference.
Effluent quality shall meet or exceed NSF Class II standards.
      (3)   No additional reduction in soil treatment or absorption area shall
be allowed with the use of an aerobic tank.
      (4)   An effective maintenance contract, approval by the permitting
authority, shall be maintained at all times.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 11.10)
§ 157.36 DISTRIBUTION OF EFFLUENT.
   (A)   Frost protection. Supply pipes must be protected from freezing where
the pipe passes under driveways, sidewalks, roadways, or other areas where deep
frost penetration is expected.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 12.1)
   (B)   Gravity distribution.
      (1)   Serial distribution must be used to distribute effluent to
individual trenches in a soil treatment system unless the necessary elevation
differences between trenches for drop boxes cannot be achieved by natural
topography or by varying the excavation depths, in which case parallel
distribution shall be used. If drop boxes are used, they must meet the
following standards:
         (a)   The drop box shall be watertight and constructed of durable
materials not subject to corrosion or decay.
         (b)   The invert of the inlet pipe shall be at least 1 inch higher
than the invert of the outlet pipe to the next drop box.
         (c)   The invert of the outlet pipe to the next trench shall be no
greater than 2 inches higher than the crown of the outlet pipe of the trench in
which the box is located.
         (d)   When sewage tank effluent is delivered to the drop box by a
pump, the pump discharge shall be directed against a wall or side of the box on
which there is no outlet.
         (e)   The drop box shall be covered by a minimum of 6 inches of soil
and it shall be placed on firm and settled soil.
         (f)   An inspection pipe at least 4 inches in diameter must be
provided and capped flush with or above finished grade.
      (2)   Systems using valve boxes shall comply with the following
requirements:
         (a)   The valve boxes shall be watertight and constructed of durable
materials not subject to corrosion or decay.
         (b)   The invert of the inlet pipe shall be at least 1 inch higher
than the inverts of the outlet pipes to the trenches.
         (c)   When sewage tank effluent is pumped to a valve box, either a
baffle wall must be installed in the valve box or the pump discharge must be
directed against a wall or side of the box on which there is no outlet. The
baffle must be secured to the box and extend at least 1 inch above the crown of
the inlet pipe.
         (d)   The valve box shall be covered by a minimum of 6 inches of soil
and it shall be placed on firm and settled soil.
         (e)   An inspection pipe at least 4 inches in diameter must be
provided and capped flush with or above the finished grade.
      (3)   Distribution boxes must meet the following standards:
         (a)   The box must be watertight and must be constructed of durable
materials not subject to corrosion or decay.
         (b)   The distribution box shall be covered by a minimum of 6 inches
of soils and it shall be placed on firm and settled soil. An inspection pipe
must be provided and capped flush with or above the finished grade.
         (c)   The inverts of all outlets must be set and maintained at the
same elevation.
         (d)   The inlet invert must be either at least 1 inch above the outlet
inverts or be sloped such that an equivalent elevation above the outlet invert
is obtained within the last 8 feet of the inlet pipe.
         (e)   Each drainfield trench line must be connected separately to the
distribution box and must not be subdivided. Distribution boxes must be
connected to one another if each box has distribution pipes.
         (f)   When sewage tank effluent is delivered by pump, either a baffle
wall must be installed in the distribution box or the pump discharge must be
directed against a wall or side of the box on which there is no outlet. The
baffle must be secured to the box and must extend at least 1 inch above the
crown of the inlet pipe.
      (4)   (a)   Distribution pipes used in trenches or beds for gravity
distribution must be at least 4 inches in diameter and must be constructed of
sound and durable material not subject to corrosion or decay or to loss of
strength under continuously wet conditions. Distribution pipes must have a load
bearing capacity of not less than 1,000 pounds per lineal foot.
         (b)   Distribution pipes used for gravity distribution must have 1 or
more rows of holes of no less than 1/2 inch in diameter spaced no more than 40
inches apart. Holes must be spaced to prevent failure due to loads.
         (c)   The distribution pipe for gravity distribution must be laid
level or on a uniform slope away from the distribution device of no more than 4
inches per 100 feet.
         (d)   Gravity distribution pipes in seepage beds must be uniformly
spaced no more than 5 feet apart and not more than 30 inches from the side
walls of the seepage bed.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 12.2)
   (C)   Pressure distribution.
      (1)   Pressure distribution must be used for the following soil treatment
systems:
         (a)   All mound systems;
         (b)   All at-grade systems; and
         (c)   Systems where the soil percolation rate is 0.1 to 5 minutes per
inch if the effluent is pumped to a seepage bed or to trenches that are all at
the same elevation.
      (2)   Distribution pipes used for pressure distribution must be
constructed of sound and durable material not subject to corrosion or decay or
to loss of strength under continuously wet conditions.
      (3)   All pipes and associated fittings used for pressure distribution
must be properly joined together. The pipe and connections must be able to
withstand a pressure of at least 40 pounds per square inch.
      (4)   Perforations must be no smaller than 3/16-inch diameter and no
larger than 1/4-inch diameter. The number of perforations, perforation spacing
and pipe size for pressure distribution laterals must be as shown in
Table IV. The friction loss in any individual perforated lateral must not
exceed 20% of the average head pressure on the perforations.
Table IV
Maximum Allowable Number of 1/4-Inch Diameter, or Smaller Perforations per
Lateral
Perforation Spacing in Feet Pipe Diameter - Normal and Inside
Table IV
Maximum Allowable Number of 1/4-Inch Diameter, or Smaller Perforations per
Lateral
                            Pipe Diameter - Normal and Inside
Perforation Spacing in Feet 1 inch 1-1/4 inch 1-1/2 inch 2 inches
                            1.049  1.380      1.610      2.067
2.5                         8      14         18         28
3                           8      13         17         26
3.3                         7      12         16         25
4                           7      11         15         23
5                           6      10         14         22
 
      (5)   Perforation holes must be drilled straight into the pipe and not at
an angle. The perforated pipe laterals must be installed level with the
perforations downward. Perforation holes must be free of burrs.
      (6)   Laterals must be spaced no further than 60 inches apart in seepage
beds and mound rock beds and must be spaced no further than a horizontal
distance of 30 inches from the outside edge of a drainfield rock layer.
      (7)   Laterals must be connected to a header or manifold pipe that is of
a diameter such that the friction loss in the header or manifold will be no
greater than 5% of the average head at the perforations. The header or manifold
pipe must be connected to the supply pipe from the pump.
      (8)   Perforated laterals must be designed and installed in such a way
that no perforations are located closer than 12 inches from the edge of the
drainfield rock.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 12.3)
§ 157.37 DOSING OF EFFLUENT.
   (A)   General requirements. A dosing device is not necessary in all
situations but, where used, shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   The dosing chamber shall be watertight and constructed of sound and
durable materials not subject to excessive corrosion or decay, vented, and must
be designed and constructed to withstand lateral pressures when the tank is
empty.
      (2)   There shall be 1 or more maintenance holes, at least 20 inches
least dimension and located directly above the dosing device. The maintenance
hole shall extend through the dosing chamber cover to final grade and shall be
so constructed as to prevent unauthorized entry.
      (3)   The dosing chamber shall either include an alternating 2-pump
system or have a minimum capacity of 500 gallons or 100% of the average design
flow, whichever is greater.
      (4)   A dosing device must employ an alarm device to warn of failure.
      (5)   Pumps shall be elevated from the bottom of the dosing chamber to
protect the pump from settled solids. The pump, pump controls, and pump
discharge line shall be installed so as to be accessible for servicing without
entering the dosing chamber.
      (6)   Electrical installations shall comply with applicable laws and
ordinances including the latest codes, rules, and regulations of public
authorities having jurisdiction and with
   (B)   Dosing device for gravity distribution.
      (1)   Where a dosing device is employed, a pump or siphon shall deliver
the dose to the soil treatment system for gravity distribution over the soil
treatment area.
      (2)   For dwellings, the dosing device shall discharge at least 600
gallons per hour, but no more than 2,700 gallons per hour.
      (3)   For other establishments, the dosing device should discharge at a
rate at least 10% greater than the water supply flow rate but no faster than
the rate at which effluent will flow out of the distribution device.
      (4)   If the dosing device is a siphon, a maintenance inspection shall be
made every 6 months by the owner or the owner's agent. The siphon shall be
maintained in proper operating condition.
      (5)   If the dosing device is a pump, it shall be cast iron or bronze
fitted and with stainless steel screws or constructed of other sound, durable,
and corrosion-resistant materials.
      (6)   Where the soil treatment area is at a higher elevation than the
pump, sufficient dynamic head shall be provided for both the elevation
difference and friction loss.
      (7)   Where the dosing device is a pump, an alarm device shall be
installed to warn of pump failure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 13.2)
   (C)   Dosing devices for pressure distribution.
      (1)   The dosing device shall be a pump which is cast iron or bronze
fitted and with stainless steel screws or constructed of sound, durable, and
corrosion-resistant materials.
      (2)   The pump discharge capacity shall be based upon the perforation
discharges for an average head of 1.0 foot for dwellings and 2.0 feet for other
establishments. Perforation discharge will be determined by the following
formula:
      q = 19.65 cd ²[https://export.amlegal.com/media/
822285d5bf476d98a954f62d4527cef5bda008ba/IMAGES/0-0-0-1356.jpg] h
   where: q = discharge in gallons per minutes;
      c = 0.60 = co-efficient of discharge;
      d = perforation diameter in inches; and
      h = head in feet
      (3)   The pump discharge head shall be a least 5 feet greater than the
head required to overcome pipe friction losses and the elevation difference
between the pump and the distribution device.
      (4)   The quantity of effluent delivered for each pump cycle shall be no
greater than 25% of the average design flow.
      (5)   A siphon will not be allowed as a dosing device to deliver effluent
to a pressure distribution system.
      (6)   An alarm device shall be installed to warn of pump failure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 13.3)
§ 157.38 FINAL TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Final treatment and disposal of all sewage tank effluent shall be by
discharge into the soil treatment system. The required soil treatment area
shall be determined by the daily sewage flow and measured percolation rate of
the soil.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 14.1)
   (B)   Acceptable methods for estimating sewage flow for dwellings are given
in §
157.21(B),
Table I. Methods for measuring percolation rate of the soil are given in §
157.20(I). The required soil treatment area size is determined in accordance
with division (F) below,
Table V.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 14.2)
   (C)   Distribution shall be made in accordance with §
157.36.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 14.3)
   (D)   Location of trenches and seepage beds:
      (1)   On slopes greater than 12%, the soil profile shall be carefully
evaluated in the location of the proposed soil treatment system and down slope
to identify the presence of layers with different permabilities that may cause
side hill seepage. In no case shall a trench be located within 15 feet of where
such a layer surfaces on the down slope.
      (2)   Seepage bed construction shall be limited to areas having natural
slopes of less than 6%. Beds shall not be placed in soils with percolation
rates slower than 60 minutes per inch or in floodplain areas.
      (3)   Soil treatment systems shall be located in accordance with setbacks
established in §
157.35(I),
Table III.
      (4)   Soil treatment areas shall not be placed in areas subject to
flooding or in floodplains delineated by local ordinances adopted in compliance
with the Statewide Standards and Criteria for Management of Floodplain Areas of
Minnesota, Chapter 6120, or in areas for which regional flood information is
available from the DNR, except that in areas where 10-year flood information is
available from and/or approved by the DNR, soil treatment systems may be
installed in accordance with the provisions of §
157.39(C).
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 14.4)
   (E)   Distribution medium for trenches and seepage beds.
      (1)   Distribution medium shall consist of drainfield rock, gravel-less
drainfield pipe or chambered systems.
         (a)   Drainfield rock shall meet the requirements of its definition in
§
157.05. There shall be a layer of at least 12 inches but no more than 24 inches
of drainfield rock below the distribution pipe. The drainfield rock shall
completely encase the top and sides of the distribution pipes to a depth of at
least 2 inches. The total thickness of rock-filled trenches shall not exceed 30
inches.
         (b)   Gravel-less drainfield pipe including appurtenances shall be:
            1.   Of commercially fabricated corrugated pipe completely encased
by the manufacturer in a geotextile wrap specific to this purpose;
            2.   An 8-inch or 10-inch nominal ID pipe that conforms to the
requirements of this section and meets the requirements of American Society of
Testing Materials (ASTM) F667, which is incorporated by reference. Requirements
under this section also include the following:
               a.   The pipes must be marked with an alignment stripe visible
through the geotextile wrap and installed with this stripe at top center; and
               b.   The pipes shall contain a row or rows of cleanly cut 3/8-
inch to 1-inch diameter holes located in such a manner to provide storage of
solids. Each row shall contain a hole in every other corrugation valley,
staggered such that every corrugation valley contains 1 hole.
            3.   Geotextile wraps specifically designed and tested for use with
gravel-less pipe and for installation and use in individual sewage treatment
system and designed to transmit sewage at a long-term acceptance rate which
corresponds to the sizing factor as prescribed in division (F)(2) below; and
            4.   Protected from heat and ultraviolet rays prior to
installation.
         (c)   Chamber media including all piping appurtenances shall be
constructed:
            1.   Of commercially fabricated materials specific to this purpose;
            2.   Of materials resistant to sewage tank effluent;
            3.   With an open bottom;
            4.   To support the load of overburden and sidewall soil;
            5.   With slotted or perforated sides to allow sewage to move
laterally into the soil and prevent soil penetration into the chamber;
            6.   No greater than 3 feet in width; and
            7.   With vertical outside dimensions less than 30 inches.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 14.5)
   (F)   Sizing of trenches and seepage beds.
      (1)   Drainfield rock media.  
Table V gives the required trench bottom assuming 12 inches below the
distribution pipe. The required bottom area may be reduced, for trenches only,
by the following percentages: 20% for 18 inches of drainfield rock below the
distribution pipe; 34% for 24 inches. Unless pressure distribution is used, all
seepage bed bottom areas must be 1.7 times the soil treatment area required in
Table V. With pressure distribution, the bottom area must be 1.2 times the soil
treatment area required in
Table V.
      (2)   Gravel-less drainfield pipe media. Sizing shall be based on a
factor of 1.2 times the soil treatment area required in
Table V, except that no reduction shall be given as specified in division (E)
(1)(a) above). An 8-inch ID pipe shall be equivalent to a 2-foot wide rock-
filled trench with 6 inches of drainfield rock below the distribution pipe and
a 10-inch ID pipe shall be equivalent to a 3-foot wide rock filled trench with
6 inches of drainfield rock below the distribution pipe.
      (3)   Chambered media. Sizing shall be based on
Table V, with the depth of slated sidewalls being equivalent to the
corresponding depth of rock below the distribution pipe.
Table V
Percolation Rate (Minutes per Inch)          0.1-5 6-15 16-30 31-45 46-60
Number of Bedrooms Tank Size Gallons Per Day Square Feet
Table V
Percolation Rate (Minutes per Inch)              0.1-5 6-15  16-30 31-45 46-60
Number of Bedrooms Tank Size     Gallons Per Day Square Feet
2                  1,000 + 500   300             250   380   500   600   660
3                  1,000 + 1,000 450             380   570   750   900   990
4                  1,000 + 1,000 600             500   760   1,000 1,200 1,320
5                  1,500 + 1,000 750             630   950   1,250 1,500 1,650
6                  1,500 + 1,000 900             750   1,140 1,500 1,800 1,980
7                  2,000 + 1,000 1,050           870   1,330 1,750 2,100 2,310
8                  2,000 + 1,000 1,200           990   1,520 2,000 2,400 2,640
Square Feet Per Gallon                           .83   1.27  1.67  2     2.20
 
Percolation Rate in    Soil Texture Square Feet Per Gallon Gallons Per Day Per
Minutes per Inch (MPI)              Per Day                Square Foot
Percolation Rate in    Soil Texture Square Feet Per Gallon Gallons Per Day Per
Minutes per Inch (MPI)              Per Day                Square Foot
Faster than 0.1*       Coarse Sand  -----                  -----
0.1 to 5**             Sand         0.83                   1.20
0.1 to 5               Fine Sand*** 1.67                   0.60
6 to 15                Sandy Loam   1.27                   0.79
16 to 30               Loam         1.67                   0.60
31 to 45               Silt Loam    2.00                   0.50
46 to 60               Clay Loam    2.20                   0.45
Slower than 60****     Clay         -----                  -----
Notes:
*   Soil too coarse for sewage treatment
**   Distribution of sewage effluent shall be by pressure flow over the
treatment area or by dividing treatment area into a minimum of 4 equal parts
connected serially, by means of drop boxes
***   For soils having more than 50% of very fine sand by weight, plus fine
sand having a particle size range of 0.05 millimeters (sieve size 270) to 0.25
millimeters (sieve size 60), the required soil treatment area is 1.67 square
feet per gallon of sewage flow per day
****   Soil with too high a percentage of clay for installation of an in-
ground standard system
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 14.6)
   (G)   Design and construction of trenches and seepage beds.
      (1)   The bottom and sides of trenches and beds shall be in original
soils at least 3 feet above the saturated soil or bedrock. In no case shall the
bottom of the distribution medium be deeper than 42 inches from the final
grade.
      (2)   The trenches shall not be less than 18 inches nor more than 36
inches wide. Any excavation wider than 36 inches shall be considered a bed. No
bed may be wider than 25 feet and parallel beds must be at least 10 feet apart.
The width of the excavation for gravel-less drainfield pipe and chambered
systems shall be installed per manufacturer's recommendation.
      (3)   Drainfield rock must be used as the distribution medium in seepage
beds.
      (4)   There shall be a layer of at least 12 inches but no more than 24
inches of drainfield rock in the bottom of the trenches. The drainfield rock
shall completely encase the top and sides of the distribution pipes to a depth
of at least 2 inches. The top of the drainfield rock in trenches, beds, and
mounds must be level in all directions.
      (5)   The bottom and side of the soil treatment system to the top of the
distribution medium shall be excavated in such a manner as to expose the
original soil structure in an unsmeared and uncompacted condition. Excavation
into the soil treatment area shall be made only when the soil moisture content
is at or less than the plastic limit.
      (6)   Excavation equipment or other vehicles shall not be driven on the
soil treatment area. Once the trench or seepage bed is excavated, it shall not
be exposed to rainfall prior to placement of the final backfill.
      (7)   A vertical inspection pipe at least 1-1/2 inches in diameter shall
be installed and secured in the distribution medium of every trench or seepage
bed. The inspection pipe must be located at an end opposite from where the
sewage tank effluent enters the medium. The inspection pipe must have 3/8-inch
or larger perforations spaced vertically no more than 6 inches apart. At least
2 perforations must be located in the distribution medium. No perforations
shall be located above the geotextile cover or wrap. The inspection pipe must
extend to the bottom of the distribution medium and must be capped flush with
or above finished grade.
      (8)   The top and bottom of the distribution medium shall be level in all
directions.
      (9)   Drainfield rock must be covered by a durable nonwoven geotextile
cover specific to this purpose. The cover must be of sufficient strength to
undergo installation without rupture. In addition, the cover must permit
passage of water without allowing the passage of overlying soil material into
drainfield rock.
      (10)   The minimum depth of cover over the distribution medium shall be
at least 6 inches. The maximum depth of cover over the distribution pipes shall
be no more than 24 inches.
      (11)   The trenches or beds shall be backfilled and crowned above
finished grade to allow for settling. The top 6 inches of soil shall have the
same texture as the adjacent soil.
      (12)   A vegetative cover shall be established over the soil treatment
system. The soil treatment system shall be protected until a vegetative cover
is established. The vegetative cover shall not interfere with the hydraulic
performance of the system and shall provide adequate frost and erosion
protection.
      (13)   All joints for gravel-less drainfield pipes or chambered systems
must be secured as recommended by the manufacturer.
      (14)   Backfilling for gravel-less drainfield pipe and chambered systems
shall not crush or damage the medium.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 14.7)
   (H)   Dual field systems.
      (1)   Dual field systems shall be used only where the percolation rate is
slower than 5 minutes per inch unless a liner or pressure distribution system
is employed as specified in §
157.37(C).
      (2)   Dual field systems shall be sized, designed, and constructed as set
forth above for standard systems except as follows:
         (a)   The soil treatment area shall be divided into 2 or more parts.
         (b)   Alternating soil treatment areas shall each be connected to a
valve box outlet.
      (3)   A part of the soil treatment area shall be used no more than 1 year
unless the effluent level indicates that a longer duration can be used.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 14.8)
   (I)   Rapidly permeable soils.  Soil treatment systems placed in soils with
a soil sizing factor of 0.83 gallons per day per square foot must provide at
least 1 of the following treatment techniques:
      (1)   Distribute the sewage tank effluent by pressure flow over the
treatment area as specified in §
157.37(C); and/or
      (2)   Divide the total soil treatment area into at least 4 parts with no
part larger than 25% of the area required by division (F) of this section and
the parts constructed for serial application.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 14.9)
   (J)   Mounds.
      (1)   Location of mounds.
         (a)   Mounds must be constructed on original soils so that there is at
least 36 inches of separation between the drainfield rock layer and limiting
soil characteristics as defined in §
157.05.
         (b)   There must be at least 18 inches of original soil with a
percolation rate faster than 60 minutes per inch above the limiting soil
characteristics as defined in §
157.05.
         (c)   Exceptions are provided to divisions (J)(1)(a) and (b) for
previously developed sites: a depth of 12 inches of original soil may be used
and a 61 to 120 minutes per inch percolation rate may be used.
         (d)   If original soil conditions do not exist on a site proposed for
a mound, as defined in §
157.05, the site is deemed unsuitable for a mound.
         (e)   Setbacks for mounds shall be as established in
Table III and shall be measured from the absorption area.
         (f)   Absorption areas shall not be placed in areas subject to
flooding as described in §
157.39(C)(4).
         (g)   On slopes of 1% or greater, and where the percolation rate in
the top foot of original soil is in the 61 to 120 minutes-per-inch range,
mounds shall not be located where the ground surface contour lines directly
below the long axis of the rock bed represent a swale or draw, unless the
contour lines have a radius of curvature greater than 100 feet. Mounds must
never be located in swales or draws where the radius of curvature of the
contour lines is less than 50 feet. In no case shall mounds be placed on slopes
greater than 12%.
      (2)   Design of mounds. Drainfield rock must be used as the distribution
of medium in mounds.
         (a)   The bottom area of the rock bed shall be calculated by
multiplying the average design flow by 1.0 square feet per gallon per day.
         (b)   The width of a single rock bed must not exceed 10 feet.
         (c)   A minimum of 12 inches of clean sand must be placed where the
rock bed is located.
         (d)   The required absorption width is calculated by multiplying the
rock bed width by the absorption ratio. The absorption ratio shall be
determined according to
Table VI, using percolation rate of the upper 12 inches of soil in the proposed
absorption area.
Table VI
Percolation Rate of Original Soil Under Sand Layer (Minutes Absorption Ratio
per Inch)
Table VI
Percolation Rate of Original Soil Under Sand Layer (Minutes Absorption Ratio
per Inch)
Faster than 5                                               1.00
6 to 15                                                     1.50
16 to 30                                                    2.00
31 to 45                                                    2.40
46 to 60                                                    2.67
61 to 120                                                   5.00
 
         (e)   The required absorption width for mounds constructed on slopes
from 0 to 1% shall be centered under the rock bed width. The required
absorption width for mounds constructed on slopes greater than 1% shall be
measured down slope from the down slope edge of the rock bed width and measured
in the direction of the original land slope and perpendicular to the original
contours.
         (f)   The side slopes on the mound must not be steeper than 3
horizontal united to 1 vertical unit and shall extend beyond the required
absorption area, if necessary.
         (g)   On slopes of 1% or greater, the upslope edge of the level
drainfield rock must be placed on the contour.
         (h)   Whenever mounds are located on slopes greater than 1%, a
diversion must be constructed immediately upslope from the mound to intercept
and direct runoff.
         (i)   A maximum of 2 ten-foot wide beds may be installed side by side
in a single mound if the original soil percolation rate is between 5 and 60
minutes per inch to a depth of at least 24 inches below the sand layer. The
beds must be separated by at least 4 feet of clean sand.
         (j)   Distribution of effluent over the rock bed must be by level
perforated pipe under pressure. A pump must be used as specified in §
157.37(C).
         (k)   The rock bed shall completely encase the top and side of the
distribution pipes to a depth of at least 2 inches above the pipe. The rock
shall extend 9 inches below the pipe.
         (l)   A vertical inspection pipe at least 1-1/2 inches in diameter
shall be installed and secured at each rock bed/sand interface of every mound.
The inspection pipe must have 3/8-inch or larger perforations spaced vertically
no more than 6 inches apart. At least 2 perforations must be located in the
rock bed. No perforations shall be located above the permeable synthetic
fabric. The inspection pipe must extend to the bottom of the rock bed and must
be capped flush with or above finished grade.
         (m)   The rock bed must be covered with a durable nonwoven geotextile
cover specific to this purpose. The cover must be of sufficient strength to
undergo installation without rupture. In addition, the cover must permit
passage of water without passage of overlying soil material into the drainfield
rock.
         (n)   Sandy to loamy soil material must be placed on the rock bed to a
depth of 1 foot in the center of the mound and to a depth of 6 inches at the
sides. When 2 rock beds are installed side by side, the soil material must be
18 inches deep at the center of the mound and 6 inches deep at the sides.
         (o)   Six inches of topsoil must be placed over the entire mound.
Topsoil does not include peat soil texture.
      (3)   Surface preparation for mounds.
         (a)   The supply pipe from the pump to the mound area must be
installed before mound soil surface preparation. The trench excavated for the
supply pipe must be carefully backfilled and compacted to prevent seepage of
effluent.
         (b)   All vegetation in excess of 2 inches in length and dead or
organic debris must be removed from the absorption area. Trees must be cut
nearly flush with the ground and stumps should not be removed.
         (c)   All surface preparation must take place when the upper 12 inches
of soil has a moisture content of less than plastic limit and soil conditions
allow field testing of soil properties, and these properties are maintained
throughout installation.
         (d)   The absorption area must be roughened by backhoe teeth or
moldboard, or chisel plowed to a depth of 8 inches. Discing is allowed if the
upper 8 inches of soil has a texture of sand loam or coarser. If plowed,
furrows must be thrown uphill and there must not be a dead furrow in the
absorption area. A rubber tired tractor may be used for plowing or discing.
Rototilling or pulverizing the soil is not allowed. The original soil must not
be excavated or moved more than 1 foot from its original location during soil
surface preparation.
         (e)   Prior to placement of 6 inches of clean sand, no vehicle shall
be driven on the absorption area after the surface preparation is completed. If
rainfall occurs on the prepared surface, the site must be allowed to dry below
the plastic limit and roughened as specified in division (J)(3)(d) above.
      (4)   Mound construction.
         (a)   The clean sand must be placed by using a construction technique
that minimizes compaction. If the clean sand is driven on for construction, a
crawler or tract-type tractor must be used for mound construction. At least 6
inches of sand must be kept beneath equipment to minimize compaction of the
prepared surface.
         (b)   The sand layer upon which the rock bed is placed must be level
in all directions.
         (c)   The top of the rock bed must be level in all directions.
         (d)   Construction vehicles must not be allowed on the rock bed until
backfill is placed.
         (e)   A vegetative cover must be established over the entire area of
the mound. The soil treatment system mound shall be protected until a
vegetative cover is established. The established vegetative cover shall not
interfere with the hydraulic performance of the system and shall provide
adequate frost and erosion protection.
         (f)   Shrubs must not be planted on the top of the mound. Shrubs may
be placed at the foot and side slopes of the mound.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 14.10)
   (K)   At-grade systems.
      (1)   Location of at-grade systems.
         (a)   At-grade systems must be constructed on original soils so that
there is at least 36 inches of separation between the bottom of the rock bed
and saturated soil or bedrock.
         (b)   Percolation tests shall be conducted in the upper 12 inches of
original soil. At-grade systems are only allowed if constructed on soils with
percolation rates faster than 61 minutes per inch.
         (c)   At-grade systems shall not be installed in areas with slopes
greater than 12%.
         (d)   Setbacks must be in accordance with
Table III. Setbacks shall be measured from the edge of the rock bed.
      (2)   Design of at-grade systems.
         (a)   Rock bed absorption width shall be calculated by multiplying the
linear loading rate by the soil sizing factor as identified in division (F)
above,
Table V, using the percolation rate of the upper 12 inches of soil in the
proposed absorption area. The linear loading rate shall be between 2 and 8
gallons per day/square feet as determined by the relationship between vertical
and horizontal water movement in the soil. Total rock bed width for sloping
ground shall consist of the rock bed absorption width plus enough rock on the
upslope side to provide stability.
         (b)   Rock bed length shall be calculated by multiplying the soil
sizing factor by the average design flow and dividing by the rock bed width.
         (c)   At-grade systems shall be pressurized in accordance with §§
157.36(C) and
157.37(C). Distribution pipe shall be installed in the center of the rock bed
on slopes less than 1% and on the upslope edge of the rock bed absorption width
on slopes 1% or greater.
      (3)   Construction of at-grade systems.
         (a)   Surface preparation for at-grade systems shall be the same as
for mound construction, division (J)(3)(c), (d), and (e).
         (b)   Drainfield rock must be used as the distribution medium in at-
grade systems.
         (c)   The upslope edge of an at-grade system shall be installed along
the natural contour.
         (d)   The rock bed shall completely encase the top and side of the
distribution pipe to a depth of at least 2 inches above the pipe. There shall
be at least 9 inches of rock below the distribution pipe.
         (e)   The entire rock bed shall be covered with durable nonwoven
geotextile cover specific to this purpose. The cover must be of sufficient
strength to undergo installation without rupture. In addition, the cover must
permit passage of water without allowing the passage of overlying soil material
into the drainfield rock.
         (f)   One foot of loamy or sandy cover material shall be installed
over the rock bed. Cover shall extend at least 5 feet from the ends of the rock
bed and be sloped to divert surface water. Side slopes shall not be steeper
than 4 horizontal united to 1 vertical unit. The upper 6 inches of the loamy
soil cover must be topsoil. Topsoil must be of a quality that provides a good
vegetative cover on the at-grade system and must exclude peaty material.
         (g)   Three vertical inspection pipes of at least 1-1/2 inches in
diameter shall be installed and secured along the down slope portion of the
rock bed. These pipes shall be located within 3 feet of the down slope edge of
the rock bed at the middle and 1/6 of the total rock bed length and placed as
measured from the ends of the rock bed. The inspection pipes shall have 3/8-
inch or larger perforations spaced vertically no more than 6 inches apart. No
perforations shall exist above the permeable synthetic fabric. The inspection
pipes must extend to the rock bed/soil interface and must be stabilized and
capped flush with or above finish grade.
         (h)   A vegetative cover must be established over the entire area of
the at-grade system. The soil treatment at-grade system shall be protected
until a vegetative cover is established. The established vegetative cover shall
not interfere with the hydraulic performance of the system and shall provide
adequate frost and erosion protection.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 14.11)
§ 157.39 ALTERNATIVE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose; requirements.  The intent of this section is to provide
standards for the location, design, installation, use and maintenance of
alternative sewage treatment systems. Alternative systems must meet the
requirements below and can only be used when a standard system cannot to be
installed or is not the most suitable treatment. They may be employed provided:
      (1)   Reasonable assurance of performance of the system is presented to
the permitting authority;
      (2)   The engineering design of the system is first approved by the
permitting authority;
      (3)   There is no discharge to the ground surface or to the surface
water; systems designed with a ground surface or surface water discharge are
not covered under this chapter and must obtain a National Pollution Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit or state disposal system (SDS) permit from
the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency;
      (4)   A 3-foot minimum separation is provided between the bottom of the
distribution medium and the saturated soil or bedrock;
      (5)   Treatment and disposal of wastes is completed in a manner that
protects the public health and general welfare;
      (6)   The system complies with all local codes and ordinances and is
subject to periodic inspections by the permitting authority to assure adherence
to specifications;
      (7)   A mitigative plan is provided to the permitting authority
indicating what will be done if the system fails to provide treatment and
disposal; and
      (8)   A water meter is provided (located down flow of any outside
sillcocks) to verify water use.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 15.1)
   (B)   Artificial drainage.
      (1)   Where natural drainage does not provide 3 feet of separation,
artificial drainage may be used to intercept the high water table provided the
water table has a slope of at least 2 feet per 100 feet and that drainage
exists upslope of the soil treatment system. There shall be at least 10 feet of
undisturbed soil between the sidewall of the soil treatment unit and the
artificial drainage. Monitoring may be required.
      (2)   Where required, water table measuring piezometer shall be
strategically placed, capped, and extended at least 3 feet lower than the
bottom of the soil distribution medium. Monitoring shall occur by measuring
water table depths prior to installation and over time, including during wet
periods. Monitoring records must be maintained. If the artificial drain
includes a dedicated surface discharge, periodic sampling as approved by the
permitting authority must occur.
      (3)   In all cases, the greatest practicable vertical separation distance
from the system bottom to saturated soil shall be provided (with a minimum of 3
feet).
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 15.2)
   (C)   Floodplain areas.
      (1)   There shall be no pipe or other installed opening between the
distribution medium and the soil surface.
      (2)   Trench systems shall be located on the highest feasible area of the
lot and shall have location preference over all other improvements except the
water supply well. The bottom of the distribution medium shall be at least as
high as the elevation of the 10-year flood. The sewage tank may be located so
as to provide gravity flow to the trenches.
      (3)   If a dosing chamber is used to move effluent from the sewage tank
to the trenches, provisions shall be made to prevent the pump from operating
when inundated with floodwaters.
      (4)   When it is necessary to raise the elevation of the soil treatment
area, a mound system as specified in §
157.38(J) may be used with the following additional requirement: In no case
shall the sand fill for the mound exceed 48 inches below the rock bed. The
elevation of the mound shall be such that the elevation of the bottom of the
rock bed shall be at least 1/2 foot above the 10-year flood elevation.
Inspection pipes shall not be installed unless the top of the mound is above
the elevation of the regional flood.
      (5)   When the top of a sewage tank is inundated, the dwelling must cease
discharging sewage into it. This may be accomplished by either temporarily
evacuating the structure until the system again becomes functional, or by
diverting the sewage into a holding tank sized and installed according to
division (H) of this section.
      (6)   The building sewer shall be designed to prevent backflow of liquid
into the building when the system is inundated. If a holding tank is used, the
building sewer shall be designed to permit rapid diversion of sewage into the
holding tank when the system is inundated.
      (7)   Whenever the water level has reached a stage above the top of a
sewage tank, the tank shall be pumped to remove all solids and liquids after
the flood has receded before use of the system is inundated.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 15.3)
   (D)   Grey water systems.  A toilet waste treatment device shall be used in
conjunction with a grey water system. In all cases, only toilet wastes shall be
discharged to toilet waste treatment devices. Grey water or garbage shall not
be discharged to the device as specifically recommended by a manufacturer.
      (1)   Plumbing. The drainage system in new dwellings or other
establishments shall be based on a pipe diameter of 2 inches to prevent
installation of a water flush toilet. There shall be no openings or connections
to the drainage system, including floor drains, larger than 2 inches in
diameter. For repair or replacement of an existing system, the existing
drainage system may be used. Toilets or urinals of any kind shall not be
connected to drainage systems. Toilet waste or garbage shall not be discharged
to the drainage system. Garbage grinders shall not be connected to the drainage
system.
      (2)   Building sewer. The building sewer shall meet all requirements of §
157.15(C) except that the building sewer for grey water system shall be no
greater than 2 inches in diameter.
      (3)   Sewage tank. Grey water septic tanks shall meet all requirements of
§
157.35(A). The sewage tank for a grey water system shall be a single tank in
accordance with the first tank shown in §
157.35(G),
Table II.
      (4)   Area. The soil treatment area shall be 60% of the amount calculated
in §
157.38(F),
Table V.
      (5)   Distribution and dosing. Distribution and dosing of grey water
shall meet all requirements of §§
157.36 and
157.37.
      (6)   Final treatment and disposal. A standard grey water system shall
meet all requirements of §
157.38.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 15.4)
   (E)   Privies.
      (1)   Privies shall only be considered when there is no water supplied to
the dwelling.
      (2)   Pit privies shall not be installed where the bottom of the pit is
less than 3 feet above the saturated soil or bedrock. A vault privy shall be
used in areas not meeting the 3-foot separation. The vault of a vault privy
shall be constructed in the same manner as a sewage tank.
      (3)   Privies shall be set back from surface waters, buildings, property
lines, and water supply wells as prescribed in
Table III.
      (4)   Pits or vaults shall be of sufficient capacity for the dwelling
they serve, but shall have at least 50 cubic feet of capacity. The sides of the
pit shall be curbed to prevent cave-in. The privy shall be constructed so as to
be easily maintained and it shall be insect-proof. The door and seat shall be
self-closing. All exterior openings, including vent openings, shall be
screened.
      (5)   Privies shall be adequately vented.
      (6)   When the privy is filled to within 1 foot of the top of the pit,
the solids shall be removed.
      (7)   Abandoned pits shall have the solids removed and be filled with
clean earth and slightly mounded to allow for settling. Removed solids shall be
disposed of in accordance with §
157.41(H).
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 15.5)
   (F)   Other toilet waste treatment devices.
      (1)   Other waste toilet treatment devices may be used where reasonable
assurance of performance is provided.
      (2)   All devices shall be vented.
      (3)   All electrical, gas, and water connections shall conform to all
local ordinances and codes.
      (4)   Operation and maintenance shall follow the manufacturer's
recommendation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 15.6)
   (G)   Collector systems.
      (1)   Where site and soil conditions do not allow for final treatment and
disposal on an individual lot, a soil treatment system located on another lot
or lots may be employed.
      (2)   Except for systems designed for 1,200 gallons per day or less,
collector systems shall be designed by a registered professional engineer,
licensed in the state, and certified by the MPCSA as competent in the field of
on-site system design.
      (3)   Hydrogeologic study: Due to the effect large flows have on
groundwater quality and groundwater mounding, a hydrologist shall determine
site suitability based on the following. A hydrogeologic study may not be
required for a collector system designed for 1,200 gallons per day or less.
         (a)   Identification of the depth of the static groundwater level and
any perched water or areas likely to be seasonally saturated;
         (b)   Identification of the depth to bedrock;
         (c)   Identification of the proposed depth of the distribution medium;
         (d)   Determination of the direction of groundwater flow, both
horizontally and vertically;
         (e)   Determination of the background water quality at the location;
         (f)   Estimation of the height of groundwater mounding from the
proposed system to confirm adequate vertical separation;
         (g)   Determination whether drinking water standards can be met at the
property boundary; and
         (h)   Estimation of the impact of water quality on existing or future
downstream wells. Depending on this estimate, piezometer and/or monitoring
wells may be required.
      (4)   Application to the Department shall be accompanied by the
hydrogeologic study and engineering drawing and specifications and shall
demonstrate compliance with all applicable local ordinances, the Plumbing Code
and issues related to joint ownership of land, joint systems maintenance
responsibilities, homeowners' associations, easements, covenants, and such
other items as may apply to the specific proposal.
      (5)   Design.
         (a)   Sewer systems shall be designed based on the sum of the areas
required for each dwelling or other establishment being served. Flows shall be
increased to allow for 200 gallons of infiltration per inch of pipe diameter
per mile per day.
         (b)   The system shall be designed with each dwelling or other
establishment having a sewage tank or with a common sewage tank. In the case of
a common tank, the capacity of the tank shall be the sum of the tanks sized
according to §
157.35(G).
         (c)   The sum of a common soil treatment system shall be based on the
sum of the areas required for each dwelling unit or establishment being served.
         (d)   The sewer for systems with common sewage tanks shall be
constructed to give mean velocities, when flowing full, of not less than 2 feet
per second. The sewer for systems with individual sewage tanks shall be so
constructed and designed to hydraulically conduct the flow for which they were
designed. In no case shall a gravity sewer be less than 4 inches in diameter.
The diameter and grade line should be based on a flow equal to 50% of the
average design flow occurring in a 1-hour period.
         (e)   Infiltration or exfiltration shall not exceed 200 gallons per
inch of pipe diameter per mile per day.
         (f)   Cleanouts, brought flush with or above finished grade, shall be
provided wherever a common sewer joins an individual building sewer or piping
from an individual sewer tank, or every 100 feet, whichever is less, unless
maintenance hole access is provided.
         (g)   There shall be no physical connection between sewer and water
supply systems. Sewers shall be set back from water supply systems and piping
as required for building sewers. Where it is not possible to obtain proper
separation, the sewer connections shall be watertight and pressure tested.
         (h)   Pipes and pipe joints shall be watertight.
         (i)   Dosing chambers shall meet all requirements in §
157.37(A).
         (j)   Pumps and dosing chambers shall be sized to handle 50% of the
average design flow in a 1-hour period. Common pump tanks shall have a pump out
capacity of 10% of average design flow and 2 alternating pumps.
         (k)   A separate alarm system for each pump shall be provided for all
pumping stations to warn of pump failure, overflow, or other malfunction.
         (l)   For systems with individual septic tanks, a stilling tank of a
least 1,500 gallons liquid capacity or 10% of the average design flow,
whichever is greater, should be provided before the soil treatment system.
         (m)   Pump stations shall have maintenance holes flush with or above
finished grade for cleaning and maintenance. Maintenance covers shall be
secured so as to prevent unauthorized entry.
         (n)   All persons using a common individual sewage system shall
assure, by contract with maintenance personnel or other equivalent means, that
the system will be maintained throughout its useful life. The system so
maintained includes common soil treatment systems, common sewage tanks, common
pumps, common pump stations, common sewers, and all individual tanks connected
to the common system.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 15.7)
   (H)   Holding tanks.
      (1)   Sewage holding tanks may be considered for installation on
previously developed sites, as a temporary method for periods of up to 1 year,
during which time measures are taken to provide municipal sewer service or the
installation of an approved system as provided in this chapter. Holding tanks
may be considered on a permanent basis for nonresidential, low water use
establishments generating less than 150 gallons per day of waste, subject to
the approval of the Department. Holding tanks may also be considered for floor
drains for vehicle parking area and existing facilities potentially generating
a hazardous waste.
      (2)   A holding tank shall be constructed of the same materials and by
the same procedures as specified in this chapter for sewage tanks, §
157.35.
      (3)   A cleanout pipe of at least 6 inches diameter shall extend to the
ground surface and be provided with seals to prevent odor and to exclude
insects and vermin. A maintenance hole of at least 20 inches in dimension shall
extend through the cover to point no less than 6 inches below the finished
grade. If the maintenance hole is covered with less than 6 inches of soil, the
cover must be secured to prevent unauthorized access.
      (4)   When installed in areas of high groundwater within 6 feet of the
ground surface, holding tanks shall be installed entirely above the groundwater
level or shall be installed according to an engineer's design to prevent
flotation.
      (5)   For a dwelling, the minimum size shall be 1,200 gallons or 400
times the number of bedrooms, whichever is greater. For other establishments,
the minimum capacity shall be based on measured or estimated flow rates.
Minimum capacity shall be equal to at least 8 times the average design flow.
      (6)   Holding tanks shall be located as specified for sewage tanks in
Table III; in an area readily accessible to the pump truck under all weather
conditions; and where accidental spillage during pumping will not create a
nuisance.
      (7)   A contract for disposal and treatment of the septage shall be
maintained by the owner with a pumper, the city or firm established for that
purpose.
      (8)   Holding tanks shall be monitored to minimize the chance of
accidental sewage overflows by installation of an alarm or warning device which
will activate a signal when the tank reaches 75% of its capacity.
      (9)   The permitting authority shall be provided right of access to
perform periodic maintenance and operational inspections of the system.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 15.8)
§ 157.40 EXPERIMENTAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Systems utilizing innovative techniques or methods may be considered
for new or existing development under the following conditions:
      (1)   The permit for experimental systems shall be recorded in the
Washington County Recorder/Registrar of Titles office setting forth the fact
this is an experimental system, including the details of the performance
monitoring, mitigation plan, and mitigation cost agreement.
      (2)   Reasonable assurance of performance of the system is presented to
the permitting authority.
      (3)   The system being proposed is supported by engineering data and
approved by the permitting authority.
      (4)   The system is in compliance with Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
Rules.
      (5)   Experimental systems will not be allowed in areas where a new
system or modifications to a new system are not feasible if failure occurs;
adequate area for long-term sewage treatment by suitable soils, as required for
standard systems, is defined and reserved on the site. For the purposes of this
section, long-term sewage treatment is considered space for 2 standard on-site
soil treatment systems.
      (6)   Performance monitoring of the system, including but not limited to
water use metering, effluent quality and system inspection and maintenance, as
defined by the permitting authority is provided.
      (7)   A mitigative plan must be provided to deal with possible system
failure. The plan must include the planned corrections and/or replacement, an
agreement among the parties clarifying who will pay the cost of mitigation, and
a statement of indemnification holding the city harmless from any damages
arising out of a system failure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 16.1)
   (B)   Failure of an experimental system to function or to properly treat
waste to a standard equivalent to a standard drainfield system will require
discontinuation of use of the experimental system until modifications can be
made or the system replaced with a standard system.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 16.2)
   (C)   Proposed experimental systems which do not provide the 3 feet minimum
separation must obtain a variance from the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
as specified in Minn. Rules 7080.0305, Subp. 3, as it may be amended from time
to time.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 16.3)
§ 157.41 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All individual sewage treatment systems, both currently existing as
well as those installed under this chapter, and all components must be
maintained in compliance with this section and other manufacturer requirements.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 17.1)
   (B)   (1)   The owner of an individual sewage treatment system or the
owner's agent shall regularly, but in no case less frequently than every 3
years, have the tank or tanks pumped.
      (2)   As an alternative, the owner may inspect and measure the
accumulations of scum, which includes grease and other floating materials at
the top of each septic tank and compartment, along with the sludge, which
includes the solids denser than water.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 17.2)
   (C)   The owner of a septic tank or the owner's agent must arrange for
removal and proper disposal of septage from all tanks or compartment in which
the top of the sludge layer is less than 12 inches below the bottom of the
outlet baffle or whenever the bottom of the scum layer is less than 3 inches
above the bottom of the outlet baffle.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 17.3)
   (D)   All accumulations of sludge, scum, and liquids must be removed through
the maintenance hole. The owner or the owner's agent shall install maintenance
holes in sewage tank in accordance with §
157.35(C)(1) to allow for the maintenance to take place through the maintenance
hole.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 17.4)
   (E)   Individual sewage additives must not be used as a means to reduce the
frequency of proper maintenance and removal of septage from the septic tank.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 17.5)
   (F)   Individual sewage treatment system additives which contain hazardous
substances must not be used in individual sewage treatment system.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 17.6)
   (G)   Any accumulation of solids in pump stations, distribution devices,
valve boxes or drop boxes shall be considered septage. Whenever inspection of
pump stations, distribution devices, and valve or drop box indicates
accumulation of solids, the device shall be promptly cleaned.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 17.7)
   (H)   Septage shall be disposed of in accordance with state, federal, or
local requirements. If septage is disposed into a municipal sewage treatment
facility, a written agreement must be provided between the accepting facility
and the septic disposal firm.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 17.8)
   (I)   Any maintenance activity used to increase the acceptance of effluent
to a soil treatment system must:
      (1)   Not be used on failing systems;
      (2)   Not decrease the separation to the saturated soil or bedrock;
      (3)   Not cause preferential flow from the system bottom to the saturated
soil or bedrock; and
      (4)   Be conducted by a qualified employee or under an installer license.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 17.9)
   (J)   Licensed pumping contractors shall maintain accurate records of
pumping activity in Washington County and shall report the data annually to the
Department on forms provided.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 17.10)
§ 157.42 SYSTEM ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Tank abandonment procedures for sewage tanks, cesspools, leaching
pits, dry wells, seepage pits, privies, and distribution devices are as
follows: all solids and liquids shall be removed and disposed of in accordance
with §
157.41(H) and abandoned chambers shall be removed or filled with soil material.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 18.1)
   (B)   Access for future discharge to the system shall be permanently denied.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 18.2)
   (C)   If soil treatment systems are removed, contaminated materials shall be
properly handled to prevent human contact and shall be disposed of in a manner
assuring that the public health and the environment are protected.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 18.3)
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
violate any term or provision of this chapter. Violation thereof shall be a
misdemeanor. Each day that a violation is allowed to continue shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 506 § 19.1)
CHAPTER 158: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
158.01   Title
   
158.02   Intent and purpose
   
158.03   Scope and applicability
   
158.04   Separability; particular property
   
158.05   Definitions
Administration
   
158.15   Administration
   
158.16   Minor subdivision
   
158.17   Platting procedure
   
158.18   Preliminary and final plat requirements
   
158.19   Required improvements
   
158.20   Financial guarantee
Standards
   
158.30   General development standards
   
158.31   Minimum design standards
   
158.32   Engineering standards
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the city Subdivision Regulations and may be
referred to in this chapter as "this chapter" or "the subdivision regulations"
or "the subdivision ordinance."
(Prior Code, Ch. 401)
§ 158.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The process of dividing raw land into home sites, or separate parcels
for other uses, is one of the most important factors in the growth of any
community. Few activities have a more lasting effect upon its appearance and
environment. Once the land has been subdivided into lots and the streets,
houses, and other structures have been constructed, the basic character of this
permanent addition to the township has become firmly established. It is then
virtually impossible to alter its basic character without substantial expense.
In most subdivisions, roads and streets must be maintained and various public
services must be provided. The welfare of the entire city is thereby affected
in many important respects. It is, therefore, to the interest of the general
public, the developer, and the future owners that subdivisions be conceived,
designed, and developed in accordance with sound rules and proper standards. To
the extent authorized by law, it is the purpose of these regulations to:
      (1)   Encourage well planned, efficient, and attractive subdivisions by
establishing adequate standards for design and construction;
      (2)   Provided for the health and safety of residents by requiring
properly designed streets and adequate sewage and water service;
      (3)   Place the cost of improvements against those benefiting from their
construction;
      (4)   Secure the rights of the public with respect to public lands and
water; and
      (5)   Set the minimum requirements necessary to protect the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 101.01)
   (B)   There are 2 methods of subdividing land. One method is through the
minor subdivision process; the other method is by platting the property.
Section
158.16 outlines the minor subdivision process. Section
158.17 outlines the platting process.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 101.02)
§ 158.03 SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The regulations contained in this chapter shall apply in the
unincorporated areas of the city and shall apply to any division of land into 2
or more parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership, building development
or tax assessment purposes by platting, replatting, registered land survey,
conveyance, sale, contract for sale, or other means by which a beneficial
interest in land is transferred.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 201.01)
   (B)   After the effective dale of this chapter:
      (1)   No land shall be subdivided or platted nor shall any plat or deed
be recorded except as provided in this chapter and approved by the city as
having fulfilled the requirements of this chapter, the other chapters of
Chapters
154 through
159 of this code and M.S. Chapter 505, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   Any parcel of land, either platted or unplatted, that has been
combined for tax purposes, or for any other reason, cannot be reseparated
without approval in the manner prescribed in this chapter; and
      (3)   No registered land survey shall be recorded with the Registrar of
Titles until the registered land survey shall have been approved by the city as
having fulfilled the requirements of this chapter and
Chapter 159.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 201.02)
§ 158.04 SEPARABILITY; PARTICULAR PROPERTY.
   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the application
of any provisions of this regulation to a particular property, building, or
structure, the judgment shall not affect the application of the provision to
any other property, building, or structure not specifically included in the
judgment.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 1301.01)
§ 158.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   A "person" includes a corporation, a partnership, and an incorporated
association of persons such as a club; "shall" is always mandatory; a
"building" includes a "structure;" a "building" or "structure" includes any
part thereof; "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be
construed to include the words "intended," "arranged," or "designed to be used
or occupied."
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 301.01)
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALLEY. Any dedicated public right-of-way providing a secondary means of
access to abutting property.
      APPLICANT. The owner of the land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative.
      ATTORNEY. The City Attorney.
      BLOCK. The enclosed area within the perimeter of roads, outlots, property
lines, or boundaries of the subdivision.
      BOULEVARD. The portion of the street right-of-way between the curb line
and the property line.
      BUILDABLE LAND.  Land with a slope less than 25%, and outside of any
required setbacks, except that on a natural environment lake where a 300-foot
structure setback is required, the building area calculation would be measured
from a 150-foot setback rather than the required 200-foot setback; and above
any floodway, drainage way, or drainage easement.
      CITY. City of Lakeland.
      COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.  A plan prepared by the city including a
compilation of policy statements, goals, standards, and maps indicating the
general location recommended for the various functional classes of land use,
places, and structures, and for the general physical development of the city
and includes any unit or part of the plan or parts there.
      CONCEPT PLAN. A sketch preparatory to the preparation of the preliminary
plat to enable the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general
agreement with the city as to form of the development and the objectives of
these regulations. The sketch plan shall contain data in accordance with §
158.17(A).
      CONTOUR INTERVAL. The vertical height between contour lines.
      CONTOUR MAP. A map on which irregularities of land surface are shown by
lines connecting points of equal elevation.
      COPY. A print or reproduction.
      COUNCIL. The Lakeland City Council.
      COUNTY. Washington County, Minnesota.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A street with only 1 outlet; a dead-end street; measured from
the point where there is no secondary access.
      DEVELOPER.  The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative.
      DEVELOPMENT. The act of subdividing land, building structures, and
installing site improvements.
      DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (major subdivision). A contract with the city in
which the owner or developer agrees to take certain specified actions in
consideration of the city's granting preliminary and final plat approval.
      DEVELOPMENT CODE. The official controls adopted by the city regulating
the physical development of land in the undeveloped areas of the city; Chapters
154 through
159.
      DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS. Lots which have a front line abutting on one street
and a back or rear line abutting on another street.
      DRAINAGE COURSE. A watercourse or indenture for the drainage of surface
water.
      DRAINAGE WAY. A natural passageway in the surface of the earth so
situated and having such a topographical nature that surface water flows
through it from other areas before reaching a final ponding area. The term also
includes all drainage structures that have been constructed or placed for the
purpose of conducting water from one place to another.
      EASEMENT.  A grant by an owner of land for specific use by persons other
than the owner.
      ENGINEER. The registered engineer employed by the city, unless otherwise
stated.
      FINAL PLAT. The map or plan or record of a subdivision and any
accompanying material as described in these regulations.
      GOVERNING BODY.  The City Council of the city.
      GRADE.  The slope of a road, street or other public way specified in
percentage terms (%).
      INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A sewage treatment system, or part
thereof, serving a dwelling or other establishment, or group thereof, and using
sewage tanks or advanced treatment followed by soil treatment and disposal. See
Chapter 157.
      LOT. An individual parcel of land designated by metes and bounds,
registered land survey, plat, or other means, and which description is either
recorded in the office of the Washington County Recorder or Registrar of Titles
or used by the County Auditor-Treasurer or County Assessor to separate the
parcel from other land for tax purposes.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot bordered on a least 2 adjacent sides by intersecting
streets.
      MAJOR SUBDIVISION. All subdivision not classified as minor subdivision,
including but not limited to subdivision of 4 or more lots, or any size
subdivision requiring any new street or extension of an existing street.
      METES AND BOUNDS.  A property description in which successive sides are
described and distance as one would walk around the area being described.
      MINIMUM SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS. The guides, principles, and
specifications for the preparation of subdivision plans indicating, among other
things, the minimum and maximum dimensions of the various elements set forth in
the plan.
      MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing 3 or less lots fronting on
an existing street, not involving any new street or road, or the extension of
municipal facilities, or the creation of any public improvement, and not
adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property, and not
to conflict with any provisions or portions of the Comprehensive Plan, Official
Map, Zoning Regulations or this chapter.
      NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. A subdivision whose intended use is other
than residential, such as commercial or industrial.
      OPEN SPACE DEVELOPMENT. A pattern of subdivision development which places
residential dwelling units into compact groupings while providing a network of
dedicated open space.
      ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL. The boundary public waters and wetlands; an
elevation delineating the highest water level which has been maintained for a
sufficient period of time to leave evidence on the landscape, commonly that
point where the natural vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to
predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is
the elevation of the top of the bank of the channel. For reservoirs and
flowage, the ORDINARY WATER LEVEL is the operating elevation of the normal
summer pool. On lakes with an established high water level by the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources, that elevation shall be considered the
ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL.
      OUTLOT. A lot remnant or any parcel of land included in a plat which is
not buildable at the time of platting. The OUTLOT may be a large tract that
could be subdivided in the future; or a lot which may be too small to comply
with the minimum size requirements of zoning and subdivision ordinances; or a
lot otherwise unsuitable for development and therefore not usable as a building
site.
      OWNER.  All persons interested in a property as fee simple owner, life
estate holder and/or encumbrance or contract for deed purchaser.
      PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public right-of-way across or within a plat to be used
by pedestrians or non-motorized vehicles.
      PERSON. Any person, corporation, or association, including governmental
agencies and political entities.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The City Planning Commission.
      PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary drawing or drawings as described in
these regulations indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision
to be submitted to the Planning Commission and City Council for approval.
PRELIMINARY PLAT shall contain data required as outlined in §
158.18.
      PRIVATE STREET. A street serving as vehicular access to more than 2
parcels of land which is not dedicated to the public but is owned by 1 or more
private parties.
      PROTECTIVE/RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts, agreements, or declarations
entered into between private parties which constitute a restriction on the use
of private property within a subdivision.
      RESERVE STRIPS. A narrow strip of land placed between lot lines and the
street to control access.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The land covered by a public road or land dedicated for
public use or for certain private use such as land over which a power line
passes.
      ROAD, DEAD-END. A road or a portion of a street with only 1 vehicular
traffic outlet.
      STREET. A public right-of-way which affords a primary means of access to
abutting property.
         STREET, COLLECTOR. A road intended to move traffic from local roads to
a secondary road and/or road designated as a COLLECTOR by the Minnesota
Department of Transportation, the Metropolitan Council functional
classification map, or the City Comprehensive Plan.
         STREET, INTERMEDIATE OR MINOR ARTERIAL. Routes identified as MINOR
ARTERIALS by the Minnesota Department of Transportation, the Metropolitan
Council Functional Classification Map, or the City Comprehensive Plan. These
streets are designed to serve heavy traffic volumes and their function is to
provide mobility with substantially restricted access. They serve to connect
communities and/or significant traffic generators or principal arterials, to
relieve congestion, and to expand the capacity of other arterials.
         STREET, LOCAL. A road intended to provide access to other roads from
individual properties and to provide right-of-way beneath it for sewer, water
and storm drainage pipes.
      STREET (SERVICE/FRONTAGE ROAD). A minor street parallel to and adjacent
to high volume arterial streets and highways, which provides access to abutting
properties and protection of through traffic.
      STREET, RURAL DESIGN. A street without curb and gutter having either
paved or gravel shoulders.
      STREET, URBAN DESIGN.  A street that incorporates either concrete or
bituminous curb and gutter.
      STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the lines delineating the
roadways, including shoulders or parking lanes of a street. On urban designed
streets it is face-to-face curbs.
      SUBDIVIDER. The owner, agent, or person having control of such land as
the term is used in this chapter.
      SUBDIVISION. The process or result of the process whereby land is divided
into 2 or more parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership, building
development or tax assessment purposes including platting, replatting,
registered land survey, conveyance, sale, contract for sale, or other means by
which a beneficial interest in land is transferred or created.
      SURVEY, LAND. The process of determining boundaries and areas of tracts
of land. Also called PROPERTY SURVEY or BOUNDARY SURVEY. The term "cadastral
survey" is sometimes used to designate a land survey, but in this country its
use should be restricted to the surveys of public lands of the United States
(USPLS).
      SURVEYOR. A land surveyor licensed under Minnesota state laws.
      THOROUGHFARE. A street primarily designated to carry large volumes of
traffic and provide for vehicular movement between and among large areas.
      VICINITY MAP. A map drawn to comparatively small scale which shows the
area proposed to be platted in relation to known geographical features, e.g.,
town centers, lakes, roads.
      ZONING ORDINANCE. Regulations controlling the use of land as adopted by
the city. Refer to
Chapter 159.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 301.02)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 158.15 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to Chapters
154 through
159, the City Zoning Administrator shall be the Administrator of these
regulations.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 401.01)
   (B)   Whenever there is a difference between the minimum standards or
dimensions required in this chapter and any other standard or dimensions in
other sections of Chapters
154 through
159, the most restrictive standards or dimensions shall apply.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 401.02)
   (C)   Subdivision review shall be coordinated with the requirements and
procedures for Environmental Assessment and Impact Statements as contained in
city regulation. Any mandatory Environmental Assessment Worksheet or Impact
Statement as required by the Minnesota Environmental Quality Board Regulations
shall be submitted as part of the application for preliminary plat approval.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 401.03)
   (D)   Subdivision review shall be coordinated by the city. Final plat
approval will not be granted until final plat approval is granted by the city.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 401.04)
   (E)   The platting and subdivision of open space design subdivision shall be
coordinated with the requirements contained in
Chapter 159. Any deviation from the minimum design and engineering standards of
these subdivision regulations may be allowed when consistent with the standards
contained in city regulation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 401.05)
   (F)   In the case of a request to divide a lot which is part of a recorded
plat or metes and bounds description, where the division is to permit the
adding of a parcel of land to an abutting lot or to otherwise exchange property
between adjacent lots, and the newly created property line will not cause
either lot to be in violation of this chapter or the Zoning Ordinance, the
division may be approved by the Zoning Administrator after submission of a
survey and legal description of each by a licensed land surveyor showing the
original lot and the proposed new lot lines. The new acquired land must be
combined on the same deed for recording purposes as the remainder of the
owner's property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 401.06)
   (G)   No structure shall be built or placed on a lot in a new plat until the
road and drainage improvements are substantially completed. With regard to road
improvements, substantially complete shall mean that the gravel base is in and
has been approved by the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 401.07)
   (H)   Any lot or parcel of land designated as an outlot shall have a
development agreement recorded against this lot or parcel specifying the usage
and ownership of the lot or parcel.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 401.08)
   (I)   Consent for subdivision of property shall be required from the owner
of the property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 401.09)
   (J)   Creation of a security interest in a portion of a parcel less than the
entire parcel does not entitle the property to be subdivided even in the event
of foreclosure of the security interest unless the parcel is in conformance
with this chapter and Chapters
154 through
157 and
159.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 401.10)
   (K)   Variances to the dimensional standards contained in this chapter shall
be heard by the Lakeland City Council and governed by the regulations in
Chapter 159.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 401.11)
   (L)   Any bonds or other financial security set forth in this chapter shall
be approved by the Zoning Administrator, City Attorney, and City Engineer.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 401.12)
   (M)   In addition to any other remedies set forth in Chapters
154 through
159, any person who violates any provision of this chapter or who sells,
leases, or offers for sale or lease any lot, block, or tract of land regulated
by this chapter before all requirements of the regulations of this chapter have
been complied with shall forfeit to the city $100 for each lot or part of a lot
so disposed of, leased, or offered.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 401.13)
   (N)   Fees for plat review and other services rendered under this chapter
shall be established by the City Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 401.14)
§ 158.16 MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   In the case of a subdivision resulting in 3 or less parcels and
situated in a locality where conditions are well defined and no new roads or
other public infrastructure is needed, the city may waive a portion of the
platting requirements.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 501.01)
   (B)   At a minimum, the following information must be submitted:
      (1)   A survey showing the original lot and proposed lots;
      (2)   (a)   Topographic data at 10-foot contour intervals; and
         (b)   Data at 2-foot contours and floodplain information may be
required if deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Buildable area on the parcels;
      (4)   Driveway access points;
      (5)   Drainage, grading, and erosion control plans;
      (6)   Wetland delineation report and map; and
      (7)   Soil testing for the installation of an on-site sewage disposal
system.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 501.02)
   (C)   A certificate of survey shall be prepared by a licensed land surveyor
showing the boundaries of the newly created lots.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 501.03)
   (D)   Prior to approval of a minor subdivision, the city reserves the right
to require the dedication of streets, utility, and drainage easements, or
public park land or cash in lieu of land.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 501.04)
   (E)   All wetland areas and DNR protected waters shall be protected with a
drainage easement to 100-year flood elevation or the wetland boundary,
whichever is more restrictive.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 501.05)
   (F)   A maximum of 3 lots in a 5-year period are permitted utilizing the
minor subdivision procedure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 501.06)
   (G)   The Zoning Administrator shall review and approve all minor
subdivision for compliance with Chapters
154 through
159 prior to recording of the proposed lot division.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 501.07)
   (H)   In addition to other requirements, all requirements of §§
158.30 through
158.32 must be met where applicable. Further, the following must be completed:
      (1)   A development agreement must be entered into specifying the number
of density units allocated among the parcels and approved by the City Council.
      (2)   Driveway permits or letters of intent must be approved by the
Washington County Public Works or MNDOT if access to a county or state road is
required.
      (3)   Drainage easement must be dedicated as necessary.
      (4)   Road right-of-way must be dedicated as necessary.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 501.08)
§ 158.17 PLATTING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Concept review.
      (1)   In order to ensure that all applicants are informed of the
procedural requirements and minimum standards of this chapter, and the
requirements or limitations imposed by other city regulations prior to
development of a preliminary plat, the subdivider shall meet with the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   At least 14 days prior to the regularly scheduled meeting of the
Planning Commission, the owner shall prepare and submit 7 copies of a concept
plan containing the following information:
         (a)   Tract boundaries and approximate dimensions;
         (b)   Significant topographic and physical features on the property to
be platted and within 200 feet of all property lines;
         (c)   Proposed general street and lot layout with lot sizes of
individual parcels designated;
         (d)   General location of proposed public and private open space
areas;
         (e)   General drainage plan;
         (f)   Current zoning of property; and
         (g)   An explanation of the proposed subdivision and its purpose.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall review the sketch plan with the
subdivider and provide comments on the concept plan. The Planning Commission
will take no formal or informal action at the state of review and discussion
which occurs at this meeting cannot be construed as approval or denial of the
proposed plat.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 601.01)
   (B)   Preliminary plat.
      (1)   After receiving comments from the Planning Commission during
concept review, the applicant shall prepare and submit 7 copies of the
preliminary plat to the Zoning Administrator. The preliminary plat submission
shall contain the information as described in §
158.18.
      (2)   Prior to preliminary plat approval for property located in a
Shoreland District or St. Croix River District, the proposed subdivision must
have the approval of the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources. The Zoning
Administrator shall be responsible for forwarding copies of the proposed plat
to the DNR.
      (3)   Approval from the Watershed Management Organization in the area of
the proposed platted property must be obtained prior to approval of the
preliminary plat. The applicant shall take whatever steps are necessary to
obtain approval from the Water Management Organization.
      (4)   If the property proposed to be subdivided abuts the right-of-way of
a state highway, a copy of the preliminary plat shall be sent to the Minnesota
Department of Transportation for its review and consideration.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 601.02)
   (C)   Public hearing.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a complete preliminary plat application, the Zoning
Administrator shall schedule a public hearing on the proposed preliminary plat.
The hearing shall be scheduled no later than 30 days from the date of filing of
the complete application.
      (2)   If the preliminary plat is approved, such approval shall not
constitute final acceptance of the layout. Final approval will be required as
specified in division (D) below.
      (3)   The City Council reserves the right to require changes to any
subdivision plan when it feels an alternative plan would be more sensitive to
environmental resources; or provide for a more efficient flow of traffic; or is
not sensitive to topographical constraints of the property; or does not meet
the standards contained in Chapters
154 through
159 or Comprehensive Plan.
      (4)   If the preliminary plat is approved by the City Council, the
subdivider shall submit the final plat within 180 days after the approval or
the approval of the preliminary plat shall be considered null and void. This
180-day time limit may be extended if requested by the applicant and approved
by the Planning Commission. In the event the property is to be developed in
phases, the preliminary plat approval for the undeveloped portion or phase
shall be valid for 2 years from the date of preliminary plat approval.
      (5)   Should the subdivider desire to amend the preliminary plat as
approved, he or she may submit an amended plat which shall follow the same
procedure as a new plat. A public hearing and submission of a plat review fee
shall not be required for amended preliminary plats unless, in the opinion of
the Planning Commission, the amendment is of such scope as to constitute a new
plat. In these cases, the plat shall be refiled with payment of appropriate
review fees and shall require a public hearing.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 601.03)
   (D)   Final plat. 
      (1)   After the preliminary plat has been reviewed and approved by the
City Council, 7 copies of the final plat containing the information detailed in
§
158.18(B) shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator; 3 copies of the final
plat, along with the plat checking fee, shall be submitted to the County
Surveyor for review.
      (2)   Prior to approval of the final plat by the Lakeland City Council,
the subdivider shall have installed all required improvements or executed a
development agreement (major subdivision) with the city for their installation.
Required improvements shall conform to approved engineering standard and be in
compliance with these regulations.
      (3)   The City Council shall consider the final plat no later than 30
days from the date that the complete final plat is received. The City Council's
recommendation on the final plat shall be recorded in the proceedings of the
City Council and transmitted to the applicant.
      (4)   If the final plat is recommended for approval by the City Council,
the owner shall submit the final plat to the Washington County Recorder/
Registrar of Titles within 120 days after approval. The final plat shall be as
recommended by the City Council and shall be signed and acknowledged by each
person owning a legal or equitable interest in the lands platted, including
contract purchasers or those holding a security interest such as a mortgage or
contract for deed, but excluding judgment or mechanic lien. In lieu of their
signatures on the final plat, mortgage, or contract for deed vendors may sign
and acknowledge a separate consent to plat.
      (5)   If the final plat is not presented to the County Recorder/Registrar
of Titles within 120 days after approval by the City Council, approval of the
final plat shall be considered null and void. An extension of this 120-day
timeframe may be requested by the applicant and submitted in writing to the
City Council. An extension must be approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 601.04)
§ 158.18 PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following information shall be submitted for preliminary plat
review. Graphic scale for any maps shall not be more than 100 feet to 1 inch.
      (1)   Identification and description.
         (a)   Proposed name of the subdivision. This name shall not duplicate
or be alike in pronunciation of the name of any plat theretofore recorded in
the county;
         (b)   Legal description of the property;
         (c)   Name and address of the record owner and any agent having
control of the land; the name and address of the subdivision, land surveyor,
engineer, and designer of the plan;
         (d)   North point and vicinity map of area showing well known
geographical points for orientation within a 1/2-mile radius; and
         (e)   Date of preparation.
      (2)   Existing conditions.
         (a)   Boundary lines shall be shown clearly and to such a degree of
accuracy that conforms to the plat in that no major changes are necessary in
preparing the plat;
         (b)   Existing zoning classifications for land in and abutting the
subdivision;
         (c)   Approximate total acreage;
         (d)   Location, right-of-way width, and name of existing or platted
streets or other public ways, parks and other public lands, significant
physical features/natural resources, permanent buildings and structures,
easements, and section, corporate, and school district lines within the plan
and to a distance of 300 feet beyond;
         (e)   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts,
wells, septic systems, drain tile, or other underground facilities within the
preliminary plat area and to a distance of 100 feet beyond. Such data as grades
and location of catch basins, manholes, hydrants, and street pavement width and
type shall also be shown;
         (f)   Boundary lines of adjoining unsubdivided or subdivided land
within 100 feet, identified by name and ownership, and including all contiguous
land owned or controlled by the subdivider;
         (g)   All wetlands shall be field delineated by a qualified and
experienced delineator and shown appropriately on the preliminary plat. A copy
of the wetland delineation report shall be submitted. Mapping must show
surveyed location of all wetland boundary markers;
         (h)   Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of
not more than 2 feet, except in those areas where the slope is less than 1% a
1-foot vertical interval shall be shown. Watercourses, marshes, wooded areas,
rock outcrops, power transmission poles and lines, and other significant
features shall also be shown. National Geodetic Vertical Datum 1929 Adjustment
or North American Vertical Datum of 1988 shall be used for all topographic
mapping, except where benchmarks are not available within 1/2 mile of site.
Benchmarks shall be established on-site and shown on map. At the discretion of
the Zoning Administrator, spot elevations may substitute for the 1-foot contour
intervals;
         (i)   A copy of all proposed private restrictions;
         (j)   In areas where public sewer is not available, 2 soil borings
shall be completed on each lot with results being submitted to the City
Building Department. If it appears that soil may not be suitable on any lot for
the installation of an on-site septic system, additional borings and
percolation tests may be required at the discretion of the Department;
         (k)   Soil types and location of limits of each soil type as shown in
the Soil Survey of Washington County. If severe soil limitations for the
intended use are noted in the Soil Survey on file in the Washington Soil and
Water Conservation District Office, a plan or statement indicating the soil
conservation practice or practices to be used to overcome the limitation shall
be submitted as part of the application;
         (l)   For lands proposed to be platted in the St. Croix River
District, the bluffline and all slopes over 12%, with a horizontal distance of
50 feet or greater, shall be delineated. In Shoreland Districts, all slopes
over 18%, with a horizontal distance of 50 feet or greater, shall be
delineated. Slopes in excess of 25% shall be delineated on all properties;
         (m)   On all lakes, ponds and wetlands, all water surface elevations,
ordinary high water elevation and 100-year flood elevations shall be denoted
unless deemed unnecessary by the Zoning Administrator; and
         (n)   The applicant shall document the path of each drainage way from
the proposed development to the first DNR protected water within 1 mile of the
project.
      (3)   Subdivision design features.
         (a)   Layout of proposed streets showing right-of-way widths and
proposed names of streets. The name of any street shall conform to the
Washington County Uniform Street Naming and Property Numbering System as
applicable;
         (b)   Location and widths of proposed alleys, pedestrian ways, and
utility easements;
         (c)   Lot and block numbers, preliminary dimensions of lots and blocks
and area of each lot. The buildable area of each lot, excluding slopes over
25%, required setbacks and drainage easements shall be noted;
         (d)   Proposed front, side, and rear building setbacks as well as
setbacks from water bodies;
         (e)   Location and size of proposed sanitary sewer lines and water
mains or proposed city sewer and water systems;
         (f)   Gradients of proposed streets and sewer lines. Plans and
profiles showing locations and typical cross-sections of street pavement,
including curbs, gutters, sidewalks, drainage easements, servitude rights-of-
way, manholes, and catch basins;
         (g)   Areas (other than streets, alleys, pedestrian ways, and utility
easements) intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use, including the
size of such areas(s) in acres;
         (h)   Grading and drainage plan for entire subdivision. If any fill or
excavation is proposed in a wetland or lake, approval may be required from the
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, Army Corps of Engineers, local
governmental unit and/or Watershed Management Organization; and
         (I)   Erosion and sediment control plan.
      (4)   Other information.
         (a)   Statement of the proposed use of lots stating type of
residential buildings with number of proposed dwelling units; type of business
or industry so as to reveal the effect of the development on traffic, fire
hazards, and congestion of population;
         (b)   Source of water supply;
         (c)   Provisions for sewage disposal, surface water drainage, and
flood control;
         (d)   Where the subdivider owns property adjacent to that which is
being proposed for the subdivision, the Planning Commission may require the
subdivider to submit a sketch plat of the remainder of the property so as to
show the possible relationships between the proposed subdivision and future
subdivision. In any event, all subdivisions must be shown to relate well with
existing or potential adjacent subdivisions and land use. If the plat contains
either a temporary or permanent cul-de-sac, a plan showing the potential for
development of adjacent property may also be required; and
         (e)   Such other information as may be requested by the Zoning
Administrator, the City Engineer, or the Planning Commission/City Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 701.01)
   (B)   The following information shall be submitted for final plat review.
      (1)   The final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor who is licensed
in the State of Minnesota and shall comply with the provisions of Minnesota
state statutes, these regulations, and the Manual of Standard Procedure for
Platting in Chapters
154 through
159.
      (2)   The subdivider shall submit, with the final plat, an opinion title
prepared by the subdivider's attorney or a current title insurance policy or
commitment certified to within 30 days of submission of the final plat to the
City Council for approval.
      (3)   On the final plat, the lowest floor elevation of the buildings
shall be shown for all lots abutting a water body. Such elevation shall be at
least 2 feet above the 100-year flood elevation. A durable benchmark shall be
established and shown on the map.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 701.02)
§ 158.19 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   No improvement within a subdivision shall take place until preliminary
plat approval has been granted by the City Council; a development agreement
(major subdivision) has been signed outlining what work can be done; and a
financial guarantee has been posted with the city in accordance with this
chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 1101.01)
   (B)   Prior to the approval of a plat, the subdivider shall have agreed, in
the manner set forth below, to install in conformity with approved construction
plans and in conformity with all applicable standards and ordinances, the
following improvements on the site.
      (1)   All subdivision boundary corners, block and lot corners, and road
intersection corners. Points of tangency and curvature shall be marked with
survey monuments meeting the minimum requirements of state law. All federal,
state, county, or official benchmarks, monuments or triangulation stations
adjacent to the property shall be preserved in precise precision unless
relocation is approved by the controlling agency. These monuments shall be set
prior to any improvements being constructed on individual lots. All lot corner
pipes or irons shall be a minimum of 1/2 inch in diameter and 14 inches in
length and shall be inscribed with the license number of the land surveyor
making the survey. All unmonumented quarter corners and section corners shall
be set by the County Surveyor.
      (2)   The full width of the right-of-way of each street and alley
dedicated in the plat shall be graded in accordance with approved plans.
      (3)   All streets and alleys shall be improved with concrete or
bituminous surface except as may be otherwise approved by action of the city.
      (4)   Along both sides of an urban designed street, curb and gutter shall
be installed. Concrete curb and gutter is recommended; however, bituminous
curbing may be permitted if approved by the city.
      (5)   Sidewalks may be required along both sides of all streets in areas
where residential density equals or exceeds 3 dwelling units per net acre of
residentially used land or in commercial areas.
      (6)   In the case where mains from a public water system are available,
the subdivider shall be required to install water mains in the plat and connect
the same to the public water system.
      (7)   In all cases where trunk line sanitary sewer facilities are
available, the subdivider shall be required to install sanitary sewers in the
plat and connect the same to the trunk line sewers. If such facilities are not
available, but it is expected that they will be within 5 years, the city may
require that such sewers, together with the necessary lateral extending from
the main sewer to the street curb, shall be installed and capped for future
connection as service becomes available. In that event, the subdivider may also
install on-site disposal units, provided that they are so located as to permit
easy and the least expensive connection to the sewer when it becomes available
and useable. Where such on-site units are installed, the subdivider shall
provide underground plumbing to extend 3 feet beyond the footing, which
plumbing shall be plugged. The area around the stack shall be scored so that
the septic tank can be disconnected and connection can be made with the public
sanitary sewer system.
      (8)   Drainage facilities and easements shall be installed as will
adequately provide for the drainage of surface waters in accordance with the
approved plan.
      (9)   Tree planting, street name signs, traffic-control signs, oversized
utility trunk lines, pedestrian ways and street lights. Other improvements may
be required.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 1101.02)
   (C)   Construction plans for the required improvements shall be prepared at
the subdivider's expense by a professional engineer who is registered in the
State of Minnesota. Construction plans shall contain his or her certificate.
These plans, together with the quantities of construction items, shall be
submitted to the City Engineer for his or her approval and for estimate of the
total costs of the required improvements. Upon approval, the plans shall become
a part of the required contract described in division (F) below. The tracings
of the plans approved by the City Engineer plus 2 prints shall be furnished to
the city to be filed as a public record.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 1101.03)
   (D)   Required improvements are to be furnished and installed at the sole
expense of the subdivider. However, if the cost of an improvement would, by
general policy, be assessed only in part to the improved property and the
remaining cost paid out of general tax levy, provision may be made for the
payment of a portion of the cost.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 1101.04)
   (E)   If any improvement installed within the subdivision will be of
substantial benefit to lands beyond the boundaries of the subdivision,
provision may be made for causing a portion of the cost of the improvements,
representing the benefit to such lands, to be assessed against the same. In
such a situation, the subdivider will be required only to pay for such portion
of the whole cost of the improvements as will represent the benefit to the
property within the subdivision.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 1101.05)
   (F)   Prior to the installation of any required improvements and prior to
approval of the plat, the subdivider may be required to enter into a contract,
in writing, with the city requiring the subdivider to furnish and construct the
improvements at his or her sole cost and in accordance with plans,
specifications, and usual contract conditions. Included in the contract will
be:
      (1)   Provisions for supervision of details of construction by the city
authority to correlate the work to be done under the contract by any
subcontractor authorized to proceed thereunder and with any other work being
done or contracted by the city in the vicinity;
      (2)   A requirement for the subdivider to make an escrow deposit or, in
lieu thereof, to furnish a performance bond as described in §
158.15. On request of the subdivider, the contract may provide for completion
of part or all of the improvements prior to the acceptance of the plat; in that
event, the amount of the financial guarantee may be reduced in a sum equal to
the estimated cost of improvements so completed prior to the acceptance of the
plat; and
      (3)   The time for connection of the work and the several parts thereof.
The time shall be determined by the city after consultation with the
subdivider. The time shall be reasonable with relation to the work to be done,
the seasons of the year and proper correlation with construction activities in
the plat and subdivision.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 1101.06)
   (G)   No subdivider shall be permitted to start work on any other
subdivision without special approval of the city if he or she has previously
defaulted on work or commitments.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 1101.07)
   (H)   All required improvements on the site that are to be installed under
the provisions of this regulation shall be inspected during the course of
construction by the City Engineer at the subdivider's expense. Acceptance by
the city shall be subject to the City Engineer's certificate of compliance with
the contract.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 1101.08)
§ 158.20 FINANCIAL GUARANTEE.
   (A)   The financial guarantee required as part of the subdivision agreement
shall be 1 of the following:
      (1)   A cash escrow deposit may be made with the City Treasurer in a sum
equal to 125% of the total costs, as estimated by the City Engineer, of all the
improvements to be furnished and installed by the subdivider pursuant to the
development agreement (major subdivision). The total costs shall include costs
of inspection. The city shall be entitled to reimburse itself out of the
deposit for any cost or expense incurred by the city for completion of the work
in case of default by the subdivider or for any damage sustained on account of
any breach thereof;
      (2)   The subdivider may furnish a performance bond and payment bond with
corporate surety in a penal sum equal to 125% of the total cost, as estimated
by the City Engineer, of all improvements to be furnished and installed by the
subdivider pursuant to the subdivision agreement. The total costs shall include
costs for inspection by the City Engineer. The bond shall be approved as to
form by the City Attorney and filed with the city; or
      (3)   The subdivider may deposit an irrevocable letter of credit from a
bank or other reputable institution or individual subject to the approval of
the city. The letter of credit shall certify the following:
         (a)   The creditor does guarantee funds in an amount equal to 125% of
the total cost, as estimated by the City Engineer, for completing all required
improvements;
         (b)   In the case of failure on the part of the subdivider to complete
the specified improvements within the required time period, the creditor shall
pay to the city immediately, and without further action, such funds as are
necessary to finance the completion of those improvements up to the limit of
credit stated in the letter; and
         (c)   This letter of credit may not be withdrawn or reduced in amount
until released by the city.
   (B)   In the event the city elects to become a party to the development
agreement (major subdivision), any financial guarantee shall run to the benefit
of the city.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 1201.01)
STANDARDS
§ 158.30 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   No land may be subdivided into buildable lots when it is unsuitable
for reasons of flooding, inadequate drainage, soil and rock formations with
severe limitation on development, severe erosion potential, unfavorable
topography, inadequate water supply or sewage disposal capabilities, or any
other features likely to be harmful to the health, safety, or welfare of
residents of the city or future residents of the subdivision.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 801.01)
   (B)   The city reserves the right to decline approval of a subdivision if
due regard is not shown for the preservation of all natural features such as
large trees, watercourses, scenic points, historical spots and similar city
assets which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and stability to the
proposed development of the property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 801.02)
   (C)   All new subdivisions, where appropriate, should be designed to
accommodate use of passive and active solar energy systems with special
attention given to streets, lot and building orientation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 801.03)
   (D)   The subdivider shall consult with the city at the time his or her
sketch plan is under consideration to secure his or her recommendation as to
the location of any property that should be dedicated to the public, such as
parks, playgrounds, or other public property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 801.04)
   (E)   The proposed subdivision shall conform to the zoning requirements and
policies as adopted by the city.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 801.05)
   (F)   Where a subdivision abuts or impacts an existing county road or county
state-aid highway, additional right-of-way may be required to be dedicated so
long as the additional right-of-way is reasonably proportional to the impact of
the subdivision on the health, safety, and welfare of the city.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 801.06)
   (G)   Proposed subdivisions shall be coordinated with existing nearby
municipalities or neighborhoods so that the city as a whole may develop
harmoniously.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 801.07)
§ 158.31 MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Street plan.
      (1)   Proposed streets shall conform to the state, county, or local road
plans or preliminary plans as have been prepared, adopted, and/or filed as
prescribed by law.
      (2)   Streets shall be logically related to the topography so as to
produce useable lots and reasonable grades.
      (3)   Access shall be given to all lots and a portion of the tract in the
subdivision and to adjacent unsubdivided parcels unless the topography clearly
indicates that such connection is not feasible. Reserved strips and land-locked
areas shall not be created.
      (4)   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make
provisions for the appropriate continuation of the existing streets into
adjoining areas.
      (5)   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, but may be subdivided,
the arrangement of streets in a new subdivision shall make provisions for the
proper projection of streets in adjoining areas by carrying the new streets to
the boundaries of the new subdivision at appropriate locations. Streets must be
rough graded or documented that grading can be accomplished within the right-
of-way.
      (6)   Local streets shall be laid out to discourage their use by through
traffic. Thoroughfares shall be reserved for through traffic by providing
marginal access streets, interior streets for serving lots or other means.
      (7)   Half or partial streets will not be permitted, except where
essential to reasonable subdivisions of a tract in conformance with the other
requirements and standards of these regulations and where, in addition,
reasonable assurance for dedication of the remaining part of the street can be
secured.
      (8)   Whenever a tract to be subdivided adjoins an existing half or
partial street, the part of the street within such tract shall be platted and
dedicated if the dedication results in a reasonable subdivision design for the
area.
      (9)   Dead-end streets shall be prohibited except as stubs to permit
future street expansion into adjoining tracts or when designed as cul-de-sac
streets.
      (10)   Private streets and reserve strips shall be prohibited and no
public improvements shall be approved for any private street. All streets shall
be dedicated for public use.
      (11)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or planned
principal arterial highway or railroad right-of-way, a street approximately
parallel with and on each side of the thoroughfare and right-of-way may be
required for adequate protection of residential properties and separation of
through and local traffic. Such service streets shall be located at a distance
from the major thoroughfare or railroad right-of-way suitable for the
appropriate use of the intervening land, or for retail purposes in appropriate
districts. Such distances shall also be determined with due regard for the
requirement of approach grades and future grade separations.
      (12)   The street arrangements shall not be such as to cause hardship to
owners of adjoining property in platting their own land and providing
convenient access to it.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 901.01)
   (B)   Cul-de-sac streets.
      (1)   For the purposes of this chapter, whether a new cul-de-sac is
proposed or an existing cul-de-sac is to be extended, the beginning of the cul-
de-sac road shall be measured from the point at which there is no secondary
access. The end is to be measured at the center of the cul-de-sac.
      (2)   Lots with frontage at the end of the cul-de-sac shall have a
minimum of 60 feet of road frontage and meet the lot width requirement at the
building setback line for the zoning district in which the property is located.
      (3)   Temporary cul-de-sacs are those in which it can be clearly shown
that the road could reasonably continue and would result in a through road at
some time in the foreseeable future. A plan showing how the road could be
extended into neighboring property shall be submitted.
      (4)   Cul-de-sac streets, permanently designed as such, shall not exceed
600 feet in length in areas where lots are less than 2.5 acres in size.
      (5)   Where lots are 2.5 acres in size or greater, cul-de-sacs
permanently designed as such shall not exceed 1/4 mile in length.
      (6)   In areas where lots are 2.5 acres or greater, temporary cul-de-sacs
shall not exceed 2,640 feet (1/2 mile) nor provide access to more than 20 home
sites.
      (7)   In areas where lots are less than 2.5 acres, temporary cul-de-sacs
shall not exceed 800 feet nor provide access to more than 20 home sites.
      (8)   Unless future extension is clearly impractical or undesirable, the
turnaround right-of-way shall be placed adjacent to a property line and a
right-of-way of the same width as the street shall be carried to the property
line in such a way as to permit future expansion of the street into the
adjoining tract. At such time as a street is extended, the acreage covered by
the turnaround outside the boundaries of the extended street shall revert in
ownership to the property owner fronting on the temporary turnaround. To assure
such streets can be constructed according to these regulations, the street
shall be rough graded or typical sections shall be submitted and approved by
the City Engineer to show construction can stay within the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 901.02)
   (C)   Street design.
      (1)   Minimum right-of-way widths and pavement widths (face-to-face curb)
for each type of public street or road shall be as follows:
 
Urban Design
Type of Street Minimum Right-of-Way Minimum Roadway Width (Including Shoulders)
Local          60 feet (18.3m)      32 feet (9.8m)
Collector      100 feet (30.5m)     44 feet (13.4m)
Minor Arterial 120 feet (36.6m)     44 feet (13.4m)
 
 
Rural Design
Type of Street        Minimum Right-of-Way Minimum Roadway Width Shoulder Width
Local                 60 feet (18.3m)      24 feet (12.2m)       4 feet
Collector or
Commercial-Industrial 100 feet (30.5m)     24 feet (12.2m)       8 feet
Street
Minor Arterial        120 feet (36.6m)     24 feet (12.2m)       8 feet
 
      (2)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing street of
inadequate width, sufficient additional width shall be provided to meet the
above standards.
      (3)   The minimum radius for a cul-de-sac shall be 45 feet.
      (4)   Additional right-of-way and roadway widths may be required to
promote public safety and convenience when special conditions require it or to
provide parking space in areas of intensive use. Additional width may also be
necessary due to topography in order to provide adequate earth slopes.
      (5)   Access to streets shall be regulated as follows:
         (a)   Access of streets within the subdivision to other local streets
shall meet all requirements of the city.
         (b)   Access of streets within the subdivision to any public street or
highway shall meet all requirements of the access spacing guidelines of the
City Comprehensive Plan as provided below and shall be subject to all
conditions of access permitting requirements of the Washington County
Department of Public Works or the Minnesota Department of Transportation.
            1.   At the discretion of the City Engineer, a traffic study
including trip generation figures may be required of commercial or industrial
subdivisions as well as residential subdivisions of 50 or more dwelling units.
            2.   Commercial developments or residential developments with more
than 10 dwelling units shall require turn or bypass lanes to be constructed on
the county road or state-aid highway. Such lanes shall conform to the Minnesota
Department of Transportation design standards and all costs shall be borne by
the developer.
Access Spacing Guidelines
               Functional Classification of Highway
Type of Access Principal Arterial Minor Arterial         Collector Local
                                  >7,500 ADT* <7,500 ADT
Access Spacing Guidelines
                                                          Functional Classification of Highway
Type of Access                                            Principal Minor Arterial
                                                          Arterial  >7,500  <7,500 Collector Local
                                                                    ADT*    ADT
                                                          No direct No
A.    Private residential driveways                    access    direct  (2)    (2)       (2)
                                                                    access
B.    Commercial driveways or noncontinuous commercial No direct No      1/
streets                                                   access    direct  8 mile 1/8 mile  (2)
                                                                    access
                                                                    1/
                                                          No direct 8 mile  1/
C.    Noncontinuous residential                        access    with no 8 mile 1/8 mile  (2)
                                                                    median
                                                                    opening
                                                                    1/      1/               1/
D.    Continuous local streets and collector streets   1/2 mile  4 mile  4 mile 1/8 mile  8
                                                                                             mile
                                                                    1/      1/               1/
E.    Minor arterials                                  1/2 mile  2 mile  2 mile 1/2 mile  2
                                                                                             mile
Notes:
1.   Traffic volumes refer to 20-year forecast
2.   Determination based on other criteria (sight distance, speed, traffic volumes, and the like)
3.   Distances shown are minimums
4.   "Noncontinuous" streets refer to cul-de-sacs or short length streets (less than 1/2 mile)
which do not cross the county highway in question
5.   The type of traffic control, turn lanes and bypass lanes required will be determined based
upon the projected traffic volumes on the type of access requested
6.   City reserves the right to increase the minimums based on other criteria (sight distance,
speed, traffic volume, and the like)
* Average Daily Traffic (ADT)
 
         (c)   Access to Minnesota trunk highways, U.S. routes or interstate
highways shall be subject to all regulations and permitting procedures of the
Minnesota Department of Transportation.
      (6)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 150 feet shall not
be allowed.
      (7)   When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any 1 point
by more than 10 degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with a radius of
not less than 200 feet.
      (8)   Centerline gradients shall be at least 0.25% and grades shall not
exceed 8%.
      (9)   Different connecting street gradients shall be connected with
vertical curves. Minimum length of these curves shall be 30 times (30X) the
algebraic difference in the percent of grade of the 2 adjacent slopes.
      (10)   The angle formed by any intersection of streets shall not be less
than 70 degrees with 90-degree intersections preferred.
      (11)   Intersections having more than 4 streets converging at a single
intersecting point shall be prohibited.
      (12)   Roadways of street intersections shall be rounded by a radius of
not less than 15 feet. Roadways of alley-street intersections shall be rounded
by a radius of not less than 6 feet. Corners at the entrances of turn-around
portions of the cul-de-sacs shall be rounded by a radius of not less than 30
feet.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 901.03)
   (D)   Public utilities.
      (1)   Extensions of the public water supply system, when available, shall
be designed to provide public water services to each lot.
      (2)   Extensions of the public sanitary sewer system, when available,
shall be designed to provide public sewer service to each lot.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 901.04)
   (E)   Easements.
      (1)   Easements of at least 20 feet wide, centered on rear and other lot
lines as required, shall be provided for utilities where necessary. Where
underground utilities are being installed, a 10-foot wide front and side yard
easement may be required. These easements shall be dedicated on the final plat.
      (2)   Drainage easements shall be provided along each side of the
centerline of any watercourse or drainage channel to a sufficient width to
provide proper maintenance and protection and to provide for stormwater runoff
and installation and maintenance of drainage systems. Drainage easements shall
be dedicated around wetlands and DNR designated lakes, rivers and streams up to
the 100-year flood elevation or delineated boundary, whichever is greater.
      (3)   Utility and drainage easements shall be dedicated for the required
use.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 901.05)
   (F)   Street names and signs.
      (1)   Names of new streets shall not duplicate existing or platted street
names unless a new street is a continuation of or in alignment with the
existing or platted street. In that event, it shall bear the same name of the
existing or platted street. Street names shall conform to the Washington County
Uniform Street Naming and Property Numbering System as applicable.
      (2)   All street signs shall be provided and installed by the city at the
expense of the subdivider.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 901.06)
   (G)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to straight
street lines or radial to curved street lines or radial to lake or stream
shores unless topographic conditions necessitate a different arrangement. Lots
proposed with irregular lot lines for the sole purpose of meeting a specific
zoning requirement are prohibited.
      (2)   Each lot shall have frontage on an improved public street. Access
to the lot shall be from the frontage of the lot.
      (3)   No lot shall have less area or width than is required by zoning
regulations applying to the area in which it is located.
      (4)   Lots designed for commercial or industrial purposes shall provide
adequate off-the-street service, loading and parking facilities.
      (5)   Corner lots shall be platted at least 20 feet wider than required.
      (6)   Through or double frontage lots shall not be permitted except where
such lots abut an arterial or highway or as a means to overcome specific
disadvantage to topography and orientation. Such lots shall have an additional
depth of 10 feet for screen planting along the rear lot line.
      (7)   Lots abutting upon a watercourse, drainage way, channel, or stream
shall have an additional depth or width, as required, to assure building sites
that are not subject to flooding.
      (8)   Lots with lakeshore frontage shall be designed so that the lot
lines extended shall maintain the closest approximation to riparian right.
      (9)   All remnants of lots below minimum lot size left over after
subdividing a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots or a plan shown for
future use, rather than allowed to remain an unusable parcel. A development
agreement (major subdivision) shall be recorded restricting the use and
ownership of the parcel.
      (10)   In the case where the proposed plat is adjacent to a major or
minor arterial, there shall be no direct vehicular access from individual lots
to such streets and roads. Residential driveway access on collector streets
must be a minimum of 300 feet apart and meet appropriate safety standards.
      (11)   No lot shall extend over a political subdivision boundary. No
building shall extend over a school district line.
      (12)   In any area where property is likely to become urbanized, a
preliminary plan may be required showing a potential and feasible way in which
the lot or lots may be replatted in future years for more intensive use on the
land. The placement of buildings or structures upon these lots shall allow for
potential resubdivision.
      (13)   All lots abutting a lake, river, pond, or wetland shall contain a
building site 2 feet or above the regulatory flood elevation, and access to
both the subdivision and to the individual building sites shall be no lower
than 2 feet above the regulatory flood protection elevation. The lowest floor
elevation shall be shown on the face of the final plat, as recorded, and shall
be a minimum of 2 feet above the 100-year flood elevation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 901.07)
§ 158.32 ENGINEERING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Streets.
      (1)   Gravel surfaces are prohibited.
      (2)   Streets shall be graded in accordance with a plan approved by the
City Engineer.
      (3)   An obstacle clear free zone shall be provided adjacent to the
roadway in accordance with the standards of the Minnesota Department of
Transportation Road Design Manual.
      (4)   For rural design roadways, the in-slopes of the ditches shall be at
a 1:4 (rise over run) and back slopes of the ditch shall be at 1:3 (rise over
run). The ditch bottom shall be 4 feet wide unless suitable erosion control can
be provided.
      (5)   The design of all pavements shall be in accordance with all
applicable specifications of the Minnesota Department of Transportation at the
time of construction. The designed thickness of the pavement shall be in
accordance with the standards shown below, but in no case shall there be less
than 6 inches of Class 5 or higher and 2 inches of bituminous. More stringent
design may be required by the approving engineer.
 
Classification            Pavement Design; Axle Load
Arterial Collector Street 9 tons
Local Street              7 ton minimum
 
      (6)   To determine sub-grade soil classifications, soil samples shall be
collected and analyzed by a qualified testing laboratory. Reports of the soil
analysis shall be submitted to the engineer with the pavement plans. Soil
samples shall be taken along the centerline of the proposed road at intervals
not exceeding 300 feet.
      (7)   Concrete or bituminous curb and gutter shall be constructed on both
sides of urban designed streets and in areas where the road grade exceeds 4%.
The construction shall be in accordance with Standard Specifications for
Highway Construction, MNDOT No. 2531 or No. 2535.
      (8)   All boulevards shall have 4 inches of topsoil (black dirt) placed
on them and then seeded or sodded.
      (9)   All required walks shall be concrete 4 inches thick placed on a 4-
inch gravel base. Grades shall be as approved by the City Engineer. Sidewalks
shall be placed in the public right-of-way. Bituminous walks or alternative
paving, such as paving stones, are allowed if approved by the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 1001.01)
   (B)   Utilities.
      (1)   Placement. All utilities shall be placed underground. All
groundwork shall be completed prior to street surfacing.
      (2)   Where larger facilities required. Where a larger size water main,
sanitary sewer, storm drain or similar facility is required to serve areas
outside the subdivision, the larger facility required must be constructed.
Additional cost is to be borne by the benefiting properties and the assessments
are to be determined by the city.
      (3)   Sewer, urban areas.
         (a)   No public sanitary sewer facility shall be extended which is not
in conformance with the city's Comprehensive Plan.
         (b)   Where trunk line sanitary sewer facilities are available, the
subdivider shall install sanitary sewers and connect the sanitary sewers to the
trunk line sewers. Extension of the public sewer system shall be designed to
provide public sewer service to each lot.
         (c)   In the event that such facilities are not available but, in the
opinion of the city, can be made available within a reasonable period of time,
the sewers and all necessary laterals extending from the main sewer to the
street curb shall be installed and capped for future connection as service
becomes available.
         (d)   Construction and inspection of the sanitary sewer must be in
conformance with the city's specifications.
      (4)   Water supply, urban areas.
         (a)   Where mains from a public water system are available, the
subdivider shall install water mains in the plat and connect the mains to the
public water system.
         (b)   Extensions of the public water supply shall, when available, be
designed to provide public water service to each lot.
         (c)   Construction and inspection of the water supply system must be
in conformance with city specifications.
      (5)   Sewer, rural areas.
         (a)   Where lots cannot be connected with a public sewer system,
provision must be made for sanitary sewer facilities consisting of an
individual disposal device for each lot. Such provision shall be in accordance
with
Chapter 157, Individual Sewage Treatment System Regulations. This does not mean
that the installation of individual disposal devices shall be at the expense of
the subdivider.
         (b)   1.   Any subdivision or lot not provided with off-site sewer
facilities shall be subject to soil and percolation tests to determine whether
the lot size proposed will meet minimum standards of health and sanitation due
to limitation of soils as shown on existing soil maps. Such tests shall be made
at the expense of the subdivider and a preliminary plat map shall be submitted
identifying the specific locations where tests were made.
            2.   Sufficient soil borings shall be performed on each proposed
lot by a certified soil tester to assure suitable soils exist for long-term
sewage disposal.
         (c)   The lot area and topography must be such that it will
accommodate an adequate disposal system to service the residence for the
estimated number of unsewered years.
      (6)   Water supply-rural areas. Wells shall be constructed in accordance
with all rules and regulations of the Minnesota Department of Health.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 1001.02)
   (C)   Stormwater drainage.
      (1)   A drainage system shall be required and may include a storm sewer
system or a system of open ditches, culverts, pipes, catch basins and ponding
areas, or a combination system. Such facilities shall be installed and
easements dedicated as will adequately provide for the drainage of surface
waters.
      (2)   Drainage way easements or land dedication may be required when such
easements or land is needed in the public interest for purposes of floodplain
management, proper drainage, prevention of erosion, pedestrian access to water
bodies, or other public purposes.
      (3)   In connection with preliminary plat review and recommendation,
provisions for surface water disposal, drainage and flood control within the
boundaries of the proposed property division shall be submitted.
      (4)   The rate of surface runoff within the boundaries of a proposed
property subdivision shall not, in any event, be greater than the rate of
runoff existing on the proposed subdivision prior to the proposed development.
For the purposes of this regulation, SURFACE WATER RUNOFF is water flowing on
or very near the surface. The volume of surface water runoff may be regulated
if it appears the use and development of downstream properties or water
resources may be unreasonably interfered with as a result of the subdivision.
      (5)   Provisions shall be made for controlling runoff by construction or
enhancement of ponding facilities on-site and within the boundaries of the
proposed property division. Such ponding facilities should provide for both
permanent and temporary storage runoff.
      (6)   An applicant shall install or construct, on or for the proposed
land disturbing or development activity, all stormwater management facilities
necessary to manage increased runoff so that the 2-year, 10-year and 100-year
storm peak discharge rates existing before the proposed development shall not
be increased and accelerated channel erosion will not occur as a result of the
proposed land disturbing or development activity.
      (7)   The applicant shall give consideration to reducing the need for
stormwater management facilities by incorporating the use of natural topography
and land cover, such as wetlands, ponds, natural swales and depressions, as
they exist before development to the degree that they can accommodate the
additional flow of water without compromising the integrity or quality of the
wetland or pond.
      (8)   The following stormwater management practices shall be investigated
in developing a stormwater management plan in the following descending order of
preference. A combination of successive practices may be used to achieve the
applicable minimum control requirements. Justification shall be provided by the
applicant for the method selected.
         (a)   Natural infiltration of precipitation on-site. The purpose of
this provision is to encourage the development of a stormwater management plan
that encourages natural infiltration. This includes providing as much natural
or vegetated areas on the site as possible, minimizing impervious surfaces, and
directing runoff to vegetated areas rather than to adjoining streets, storm
sewers, and ditches;
         (b)   Flow attenuation by use of open vegetated swales and natural
depressions;
         (c)   Stormwater retention facilities; and
         (d)   Stormwater detention facilities.
      (9)   An applicant may also make an in-kind or monetary contribution to
the development and maintenance of city stormwater management facilities
designed to serve multiple land disturbing and development activities
undertaken by 1 or more persons, including the applicant.
      (10)   Stormwater detention facilities shall be designed according to the
most current technology as reflected in the MPCA publication "Protecting Water
Quality in Urban Areas" and shall contain, at a minimum, the following design
factors:
         (a)   A permanent pond surface area equal to 2% of the impervious area
draining to the pond or 1% of the entire area draining to the pond, whichever
amount is greater;
         (b)   An average permanent pool depth of 4 to10 feet;
         (c)   As an alternative to divisions (C)(10)(a) and (b) above, the
city may require that the volume of the permanent pool be equal to or greater
than the runoff from a 2-inch rainfall for the fully developed site;
         (d)   A permanent pool length-to-width ratio of 3:1 or greater;
         (e)   A minimum protective shelf extending 10 feet into the permanent
pool with a slope of 10:1, beyond which the slopes shall not exceed 3:1;
         (f)   A protective buffer strip of vegetation surrounding the
permanent pool at a minimum width of 16.5 feet shall be provided;
         (g)   A device to keep oil, grease, and other floatable material from
moving downstream as a result of normal operations shall be provided;
         (h)   Stormwater detention facilities for new development must be
sufficient to limit peak flows in each subwatershed to those that existed
before the development for the 10-year storm event. All calculations and
hydrologic models/information used in determining peak flows shall be submitted
along with the stormwater management plans; and
         (i)   All stormwater detention facilities must have a catch basin to
remove coarse grained particles prior to discharging into a watercourse or
storage basin.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 1001.03)
   (D)   Erosion control during construction.
      (1)   Erosion control shall be performed in accordance with the
recommended practice of the Washington County Soil and Water Conservation
District and the applicable Watershed Management Organization. All best
management practices shall be consistent with the Minnesota Construction Site
Erosion and Sediment Control Planning Handbook.
      (2)   The following criteria apply only to construction activities that
result in runoff leaving the site:
         (a)   Channelized runoff from adjacent areas passing through the site
shall be diverted around the disturbed areas, if practical. Sheetflow runoff
from adjacent areas greater than 10,000 square feet in area shall be diverted
around disturbed areas unless shown to have resultant runoff rates of less than
.05 feet/second across the disturbed area for the 1-year storm. Diverted runoff
shall be conveyed in a manner that will not erode the conveyance and receiving
channels.
         (b)   All activities on the site shall be conducted in a logical
sequence to minimize the area of bare soil exposed at any 1 time. The limits of
grading must be shown on the erosion control plan.
         (c)   All disturbed ground left inactive for 14 or more days shall be
stabilized by seeding or sodding (prior to September 15) or by mulching,
covering, or other equivalent control measures.
         (d)   For sites with more than 10 acres disturbed at 1 time, or if a
channel originates in the disturbed area, one or more temporary or permanent
sedimentation basins shall be constructed. Each sedimentation basin shall have
a surface area of at least 1% of the area draining to the basin and at least 3
feet of depth constructed in accordance with accepted design specifications.
Sediment shall be removed to maintain a depth of 3 feet. The basin discharge
rate shall also be sufficiently low as to not cause erosion along the discharge
channel or the receiving water.
         (e)   For sites with less than 10 acres disturbed at 1 time, silt
fences, straw bales, or equivalent control measures shall be placed along all
side slope and down slope sides of the site. If a channel or area of
concentrated runoff passes through the site, silt fences shall be placed along
the channel edges to reduce sediment reaching the channel. The use of silt
fences, straw bales, or equivalent control measures must include a maintenance
and inspection schedule.
         (f)   Any soil storage piles containing more than 10 cubic yards of
material should not be located with a down slope drainage length of less than
25 feet from the toe of the pile to a roadway or drainage channel. If remaining
for more than 7 days, they shall be stabilized by mulching, vegetative cover,
tarps, or other means. Erosion from piles which will be in existence for less
than 7 days shall be controlled by placing straw bales or silt fence barriers
around the pile.
         (g)   In-street utility repair or construction soil or direct piles
located closer than 25 feet to a roadway or drainage channel must be covered
with tarps or suitable alternative control if exposed for more than 7 days. The
storm drain inlet must be protected with straw bales or other appropriate
filtering barriers.
(Prior Code, Ch. 401 § 1001.04)
CHAPTER 159: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
159.001   Title
   
159.002   Intent and purpose
   
159.003   Interpretation and construction
   
159.004   Applicability
   
159.005   Nonconforming uses, buildings, and structures
   
159.006   Supremacy; effective date
   
159.007   Definitions
Administration
   
159.020   Zoning Administrator
   
159.021   Duties of the Zoning Administrator
   
159.022   Applications
   
159.023   Appeals and variances; Board of Adjustment and Appeals
   
159.024   Conditional use permits and interim use permits
   
159.025   City permits
   
159.026   Amendments
   
159.027   Permits
   
159.028   Certificate of occupancy
   
159.029   Fees
   
159.030   Environmental assessment (EAW) and impact statements (EIS)
Zoning Districts, Permitted Uses and Dimensional Standards
   
159.040   Districts
   
159.041   Minimum requirements
   
159.042   Zoning district map
   
159.043   Uses
   
159.044   Floodplain Overlay District
   
159.045   Planned Unit Development Overlay District
   
159.046   St. Croix Overlay District
   
159.047   Lake and Shoreland Management Overlay District
Planned Unit Developments
   
159.060   Intent
   
159.061   Definitions
   
159.062   Exclusions
   
159.063   Preliminary review
   
159.064   Application for approval of PUD permits
   
159.065   Requirements of general development plan for large or complex areas
   
159.066   General development plan for small areas
   
159.067   Permits generally; plats
   
159.068   City permit for site plans and building plans
Structures; Design and Performance Standards
   
159.080   Minimum standards; purpose
   
159.081   Exterior architectural standards for commercial, retail, office,
industrial, warehouse and similar buildings in nonresidential zoning districts
   
159.082   Principal buildings
   
159.083   Accessory buildings and structures
   
159.084   Security dwelling units in commercial and industrial districts
   
159.085   Public convenience structures
   
159.086   Fences
   
159.087   Exterior storage
   
159.088   Fallout shelters
   
159.089   Tennis courts or sport courts
   
159.090   Interim uses and structures; requirements
Residential Developments and Uses; Design and Performance Standards
   
159.100   Apartments and other multiple-family uses
   
159.101   Townhouse developments
   
159.102   Cluster developments
   
159.103   Guest houses
   
159.104   Home occupations
Commercial and Business Uses
   
159.110   Drive-in business
   
159.111   Coin-operated machines
   
159.112   Swimming pools
   
159.113   Automobile sales and showrooms
   
159.114   Livestock
   
159.115   Service stations
   
159.116   Shopping centers
   
159.117   Commercial special occasion ceremony venue
   
159.118   Outside uses accessory to restaurants and similar retail uses in the
retail business district
Mobile Homes and Parks
   
159.130   Manufactured or mobile homes
   
159.131   Mobile home parks
   
159.132   Recreational vehicle regulations
   
159.133   Recreational vehicle park regulations
   
159.134   Manufactured homes
Environmental Considerations; Access; Nuisances
   
159.145   Environmental pollution
   
159.146   Drainage
   
159.147   Land reclamation and land grading
   
159.148   Soil conservation plans
   
159.149   Mining
   
159.150   Agricultural operations
   
159.151   Storage of hazardous materials
   
159.152   Explosives
   
159.153   Screening
   
159.154   Landscaping
   
159.155   Reasonable maintenance required
   
159.156   Vegetative cutting
   
159.157   Outdoor lighting
   
159.158   Access drives and access standards
   
159.159   Private roads
   
159.160   Parking
   
159.161   Off-street loading and unloading areas
   
159.162   Traffic control
   
159.163   Nuisances
   
159.164   Environmental nuisances
   
159.165   Miscellaneous nuisances
   
159.166   Noise control
Signs
   
159.180   Title
   
159.181   Purpose and intent
   
159.182   Findings
   
159.183   Permit required
   
159.184   Comprehensive sign plan and diagrams
   
159.185   Definitions
   
159.186   Signs not permitted in any zoning district
   
159.187   Private traffic signs
   
159.188   Political signs
   
159.189   Real estate development signs
   
159.190   Construction signs
   
159.191   Required signs; house numbers
   
159.192   Permitted in agricultural and residential districts
   
159.193   Permitted in retail business district
   
159.194   Religious organizations
   
159.195   Permitted in PUD districts or uses requiring conditional use permit
   
159.196   Sign construction
   
159.197   Wall signs
   
159.198   Gasoline service stations
   
159.199   Window signs
   
159.200   Sign maintenance
   
159.201   Obsolete signs
   
159.202   Unsafe or dangerous signs
   
159.203   Temporary sign permits
   
159.204   Expiration of permits
   
159.205   Permit chart
Enforcement
   
159.220   Violations
 
   
159.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Zoning Map
Editor's note:
   The Model Code of Washington County Communities, Zoning Ordinance, as
adopted February 29, 1980 by the Washington County Planning Advisory
Commission, serves as the basis of this chapter with modifications as follows
herein.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 159.001 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as "the Zoning Ordinance," "Zoning Code," "Zoning
Regulations," or "this chapter."
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 101.01)
§ 159.002 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   General purposes. The general purposes of this chapter are to provide
for the orderly growth and renewal of the city, to protect and conserve its
natural resources, its ecological systems and its economic stability by
fostering appropriate land use, so as to preserve and promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 201.01)
   (B)   Specific purposes. It is hereby determined by the City Council that in
order to accomplish the general purposes of this chapter as set forth in
division (A) above, it is necessary and proper to establish and enforce the
regulations contained in this chapter for the following specific purposes:
      (1)   To stage development and redevelopment to coincide with the
availability of necessary public services;
      (2)   To divide the city into districts, providing for and regulating
therein the location, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and use of
buildings, structures, and land for residential, business, commercial,
industrial, and other specified uses;
      (3)   To protect the character and maintain the stability of residential,
business, commercial, and industrial areas within the city, and prohibit uses,
buildings, or structures which are incompatible with the character of
development in such areas;
      (4)   To provide adequate light, air, privacy, and convenience of access
to property;
      (5)   To limit congestion in public streets and to foster public safety
and convenience in travel and transportation;
      (6)   To provide protection against fire, explosions, obnoxious fumes,
and other hazards in the interest of public health, safety, and comfort;
      (7)   To prevent environmental pollution;
      (8)   To prevent the destruction or improvident exploitation of city
resources;
      (9)   To preserve the value of land and buildings throughout the city;
      (10)   To provide for the gradual and equitable elimination of those uses
of land, buildings, and structures, and of those buildings and structures which
do not conform to the standards for the area in which they are located and
which may adversely affect the development and the value of property in such
areas;
      (11)   To provide for the condemnation of such nonconforming buildings or
structures and of land as is necessary or appropriate for the rehabilitation of
the area blighted thereby;
      (12)   To provide for the enforcement of this chapter and to define and
limit the powers and duties of the administrative officers and bodies
responsible therefor;
      (13)   To protect and preserve economically viable agricultural land; and
      (14)   To provide for the wise use and conservation of energy resources.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 202.01)
§ 159.003 INTERPRETATION AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Interpretation. In the application of this chapter, the provisions
thereof shall be interpreted to be the minimum requirements necessary to
accomplish the general and specific purposes of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 203.01)
   (B)   Rules of construction. The words and phrases in this chapter shall be
construed in their plain, ordinary and usual sense, except that technical words
and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be
understood according to their technical import.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 203.02)
   (C)   Masculine, feminine or neuter. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, the use of masculine, feminine, or neuter gender shall include the
other genders.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 203.03)
   (D)   Singular or plural.  Unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
the use of either singular or plural numbers shall include the other number.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 203.04)
   (E)   Past, present, or future.  Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, the use of either past, present, or future tense shall include the
other tenses.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 203.05)
   (F)   Joint authority. Words importing joint authority to 3 or more persons
shall be construed as authority to a majority of the persons.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 203.06)
   (G)   Computation of time. The time within which an act shall be done shall
be computed by excluding the first and including the last day. If the last day
is a Sunday or legal holiday, that date shall be excluded.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 203.07)
   (H)   Deputies. Whenever this chapter requires an act to be done, which act
may legally be done by an agent or employee as well as by the principal, the
requirement shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or employee.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 203.08)
   (I)   Conjunctions. The words "or" and "and" may be read interchangeably in
situations where the context requires it.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 203.09)
   (J)   Minnesota Rules of Construction to apply.  Unless clearly in conflict
with the provisions of this chapter, or otherwise clearly inapplicable, rules
of construction established for the State of Minnesota by statute or case law
shall apply in the construction of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 203.10)
   (K)   Inclusion not considered consent, permit, or license. Nothing
contained in this chapter shall be deemed to be a consent, license, or permit
to use any property or to locate, construct, or maintain any building,
structure, or facility, or to carry on any trade, industry, occupation, or
activity.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 203.11)
   (L)   Provisions cumulative. Except as herein provided, the provisions of
this chapter are cumulative and in addition to the provisions of other laws and
ordinances, heretofore passed or which may be passed hereafter, governing the
same subject matter as this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 203.12)
§ 159.004 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Application generally. Except as hereinafter provided, no building or
structure shall be erected, moved, altered, or extended, and no land, building,
or structure, or part thereof, shall be occupied or used unless in conformity
with regulations specified in this chapter for the district in which it is
located.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 401.01)
   (B)   Application to existing structures. This chapter shall not apply to
existing buildings and structures or to the existing use of any building,
structure or land to the extent of that use on the effective date of this
chapter. However, this chapter shall apply to any change in use, alteration,
extension, or movement of a building or structure, and to any change in the use
of land subsequent to the effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 401.02)
   (C)   "Use" defined.  For the purpose of this chapter, the word USE shall
mean:
      (1)   Any purpose for which a building or other structure or a tract of
land may be designed, arranged, intended, maintained, or occupied; or
      (2)   Any activity, occupation, business, or operation carried on, or
intended to be carried on, in a building or other structure, or on a tract of
land.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 401.03)
§ 159.005 NONCONFORMING USES, BUILDINGS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Definitions of nonconforming uses, buildings, and structures. For the
purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NONCONFORMING USE. Any lawful use of land or any lawful use of a building
or structure existing on the effective date of this chapter, or any amendment
thereto, which use does not conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after the effective date of this chapter or the amendment.
      SUBSTANDARD BUILDING or SUBSTANDARD STRUCTURE. Any building or structure
lawfully existing on the effective date of this chapter or any amendment
thereto, which building or structure does not conform with the regulations,
including dimensional standards, for the district in which it is located after
the effective date of this chapter or the amendment.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 402.01)
   (B)   Preservation of nonconforming uses. Except as hereinafter provided in
this section, the lawful use of land or the lawful use of a building or
structure existing on the effective date of this code of ordinances or on the
effective date of any amendment thereto may be continued although the use does
not conform to the provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise provided in
this section.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 402.02)
   (C)   Preservation of dimensionally substandard buildings or structures.
Except as hereinafter provided in this section, buildings or structures
lawfully existing on the effective date of this chapter or on the effective
date of any amendment thereto may be maintained, although the building or
structure does not conform to the dimensional standards of this chapter, but
any such building or structure shall not be altered or improved beyond normal
maintenance; except that any lawful dimensionally substandard residential
building, accessory building, or structure may be altered or improved if the
existing substandard dimension relates only to setback requirements and does
not exceed 10% of the minimum setback requirements, but the alteration or
improvement shall conform to all of the provisions of this chapter and shall
not increase the existing substandard square footage.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 402.03)
   (D)   Unlawful uses, buildings, and structures. No unlawful use of property
existing on the effective date of this chapter or any amendment thereto, nor
any building or structure which on that date shall be deemed a nonconforming
use or a nonconforming building or structure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 402.04)
   (E)   Permit holders and permit applicants. Any nonconforming structure that
is ready for or under construction on the effective date of this chapter or any
amendment thereto may be completed and occupied in accordance with the
requirements of any valid building permit issued therefor prior to the
effective date.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 402.05)
   (F)   Change from one nonconforming use to another. A nonconforming use may
be changed only to a use permitted in the district in which it is located;
except that if no structural alterations are made, a nonconforming use of a
building may be changed to another nonconforming use of the same or a more
restrictive classification, and provided such change is approved by the Board
of Adjustment and Appeals as hereinafter provided. Once changed to a conforming
use, no building or land shall be permitted to revert to a nonconforming use.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 402.06)
   (G)   Change of use with approval of the Board of Adjustment. A
nonconforming use, all or partially conducted in a building or buildings, may
be changed to another nonconforming use only upon determination by the Board of
Adjustment, after a public hearing, that the proposed new use will be no more
detrimental to its neighborhood and surroundings than is the use it is to
replace. In determining relative "detriment," the Board of Adjustment shall
take into consideration, among other things: traffic generated; nuisance
characteristics, such as emission of noise, dust, and smoke; fire hazards; and
hours and manner of operation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 402.07)
   (H)   Restoration of nonconforming buildings or structures.  A nonconforming
building or structure which is damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, wind,
earthquake, or other calamity may be restored and the occupancy or use of the
building, structure, or part thereof, which existing at the time of the partial
destruction, may be continued or resumed, provided that the restoration is
started within a period of 1 year and is diligently prosecuted to completion,
unless the damage to the building or structure is equal to 50% or more of the
replacement cost thereof (as determined by the Building Official), in which
case the reconstruction shall conform to the provisions of this chapter, except
by conditional use permit and not to exceed the gross square footage of the
previous structure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 402.08)
   (I)   Abandonment of use.  When any nonconforming use of land or of a
building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of 1 year, the land,
building, or structure shall, thereafter, be used only as provided by this
chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 402.09)
§ 159.006 SUPREMACY; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)    When any condition imposed by any provision of this chapter on the
use of land or buildings or on the bulk of buildings is either more restrictive
or less restrictive than similar conditions imposed by any provision of any
other city ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive conditions shall
prevail.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easements, restrictions,
or covenants relating to the use of land or imposed on lands within the city by
private declaration or agreement, but where the provisions of this chapter are
more restrictive than any such easement, restriction, or covenant or provision
of any private agreement, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 901.02)
   (C)   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after the
adoption of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 901.03)
§ 159.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING.  A subordinate building, or a portion of the main
building, which is located on the same lot as the main building and the purpose
of which is clearly incidental to that of the principal building (see §
159.083).
   ACCESSORY USE.  A use incidental or subordinate to the principal use of the
same land.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The City Zoning Administrator.
   AGRICULTURE. See definition of Farm and §
159.150.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure on agricultural land as defined in Farm,
rural of this section, designed, constructed, and used to house farm
implements, livestock or agricultural produce, or products used by the owner,
lessee, or sublessee of the building and members of their immediate families,
their employees, and persons engaged in the pickup or delivery of agricultural
produce or products.
   ALTERED.  Changed or made different or modified.
   ANIMALS, DOMESTIC PETS. Dogs, cats, birds, and similar animals commonly kept
in a residence. Animals considered wild, exotic, or nondomestic, such as bears,
lions, wolves, ocelots, and similar animals, shall not be considered DOMESTIC
PETS.
   ANIMALS, DOMESTIC FARM. Cattle, hogs, horses, bees, sheep, goats, chickens,
and other animals commonly kept for commercial food producing purposes.
   ANIMAL UNIT.  A unit of measure used to compare differences in the
production of animal wastes, which has a standard as the amount of waste
produced on a regular basis by a slaughter steer or heifer.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms with cooking facilities designed to be
occupied as a residence by a single family.
   AREA, BUILDING. The area included within surrounding exterior walls (or
exterior walls and fire walls) exclusive of vent shafts and courts. Areas of
the building not provided with surrounding walls shall be included in the
BUILDING AREA if such areas are included within the horizontal projection of
the roof or floor above.
   AREA, NOT DEVELOPABLE.  Those lands within a development parcel remaining
after the deletion of floodplains, wetlands, slopes greater than 12% and
unbuildable easements or rights-of-way.
   ATTORNEY. The City Attorney.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION (GAS STATION). A place where any motor fuel,
lubricating oil or grease for operating motor vehicles is offered for sale to
the public and deliveries are made directly into motor vehicles. This
definition includes greasing, oiling, or sale of automobile accessories on the
premises. This definition also includes minor repairs and replacement of parts
and motor services to passenger automobiles and trucks not exceeding 1-1/2 tons
capacity.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE USES.  Those uses catering to the traveling public. These
include auto and truck laundry, drive-in business, service station, repair
garage, public garage, motel, hotel, seasonal produce sales, motor vehicle
sales, trailer sales and rental, boat sales, rental services, and restaurants.
   AUTO REPAIR. The replacement of any part or repair of any part which does
not require the removal of the engine head or pan, engine, transmission, or
differential; incidental body and/or fender work, minor painting and
upholstering service when the service above stated is applied to passenger
automobiles and trucks not in excess of 7,000 pounds gross vehicle weight and
is not conducted in a location which is within 150 feet of a residential
structure within the city.
(Am. Ord. 7499, passed 6-18-2002)
   AUTO OR MOTOR VEHICLE REDUCTION YARD.  A lot or yard where 1 or more
unlicensed motor vehicles, or the remains thereof, are kept for the purpose of
dismantling, wrecking, crushing, repairing, rebuilding, sale of parts, sale as
scrap, storage or abandonment (see also definition of Junk yard).
   BAR. See definition of Tavern.
   BASEMENT.  A portion of a building between floor and ceiling, located partly
above and partly below grade, and having 1/2 or less of its floor to ceiling
height below the average grade of the adjoining ground. Earth sheltered houses
that meet all other requirements of the Building Code shall not be considered
BASEMENTS.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a motel or hotel where, for
compensation and by pre-arrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging are
provided for 3 or more unrelated persons, but not to exceed 8 persons.
   BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof and
used or built for the shelter or enclosure of any person, animal, or property
of any kind. When any portion thereof is completely separated from every other
part thereof by area separation, each portion of the building shall be deemed
as a separate BUILDING.
   BUILDING CODE. The Minnesota State Building Code.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance between the lowest grade level at the
building line and the uppermost point on the roof.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The officer or other designated authority, certified by
the state under M.S. § 16.861, as it may be amended from time to time, charged
with the administration and enforcement of the Building Code, or that
official's duly authorized representative.
   BUILDING SETBACK.  The minimum horizontal distance between the building and
the lot line.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE.  A line within a lot parallel to a public right-of-
way line, a side or rear lot line, a bluffline or a high water mark or line,
behind which buildings or structures must be placed.
   BUSINESS. Any occupation, employment, or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold, or where services are offered for compensation.
   CAFÉ/RESTAURANT. A building with facilities for preparation and serving of
meals at tables to the general public.
   CARPORT. An automobile shelter having 1 or more sides open.
   CAR WASH.  A place where vehicles are washed: a site, often a tunnel-like
building with drive-through conveyors, where motor vehicles are washed
automatically by machine or can be washed manually.
   CELLAR. That portion of the building having more than 1/2 of the clear floor
to ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining ground. Underground
buildings that meet all other requirements of the Building Code shall not be
considered CELLARS.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. See §
159.028.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse with definite bed and banks to
confine and conduct continuously or periodically flowing water, including but
not limited to streams, rivers, creeks, ditches, drainage ways, canals,
conduits, culverts, waterways, gullies, ravines, or washes; and including any
area adjacent thereto which is required to carry and discharge the regional
flood.
   CHANNEL FLOW.  That water which is flowing within the limits of a channel.
   CHURCH. A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which building, together
with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship.
   CITY COUNCIL. The Governing Body of the city.
   CITY PERMIT.  See §
159.025.
   CLUB or LODGE. A nonprofit association or persons who are bona fide members
paying annual dues, use of premises being restricted to members and their
guests.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.  A pattern of subdivision development which places
detached houses, duplexes or townhouse units into compact groupings while
providing a network of commonly owned or dedicated open space.
   COMMERCIAL. See §
159.043 for permitted uses.
   COMMERCIAL FOOD PRODUCING FARM OPERATIONS. See definition of Farm, rural and
§
159.150.
   COMMERCIAL SPECIAL OCCASION CEREMONY VENUE. A location to conduct a formal
ceremony observing a special occasion, and operated with the intention of
earning a profit by providing the venue to the public.
   COMMUNITY. The governmental unit which has adopted this chapter, except
where otherwise indicated.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The policies, statements, goals, and interrelated plans
for private and public land and water use, transportation and community
facilities, including recommendations for planned execution, documented in
texts, ordinance, and maps which constitute the guide for the future
development of the city or any portion of the city.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A land use or development as defined by ordinance that may
not be appropriate generally, but may be allowed with appropriate restrictions
as provided by official controls upon a finding that:
      (1)   Certain conditions as detailed in this chapter exist;
      (2)   The use or development conforms to the zoning regulations of the
city; and
      (3)   Is compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   CONDOMINIUM. See definition of Dwelling, multiple or Apartment building.
   CURB LEVEL.  The grade elevation of the curb in front of the center of a
building. Where no curb has been established, the City Engineer shall determine
a curb level or its equivalent for the purpose of this chapter.
   DAY CARE.  A use where supervision is provided for 3 or more children or
adults for periods of over 4 hours or more per day for compensation in money or
money's worth.
   DECIBEL.  The unit of sound measured on the "A" weighing scale of a sound
level meter, set on slow response, the weighing characteristics of which are
specified in the Standards on Sound Level Meters of the USA Standards
Institute.
   DEPTH OF LOT. The horizontal distance between the frontage right-of-way line
and rear lot line. On a corner lot, the side with the largest frontage is its
depth, and the side with the lesser frontage is its width.
   DISPOSAL AREA, ON-SITE SEWAGE TREATMENT. See
Chapter 157.
   DREDGING. The process by which soils or other surface materials, normally
transported by surface water erosion into a body of water, are removed for the
purpose of deepening the body of water.
   DRIVE-IN. Any use where products and/or services are provided to the
customer under conditions where the customer does not have to leave the car or
where service to the automobile occupants is offered regardless of whether
service is also provided within a building.
   DWELLING/DWELLING UNIT. A building or 1 or more portions thereof occupied
exclusively for human habitation, including complete kitchen and bathroom
facilities, permanently installed, which is arranged, designed, used, or
intended for use exclusively as living quarters for 1 family; but not including
rooms in hotels, motels, nursing homes, boarding houses, nor trailers, tents,
cabins, or trailer coaches.
      DWELLING, ATTACHED.  A dwelling which is joined to another dwelling at 1
or more sides by a party wall or walls.
      DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling which is entirely surrounded by open space
on the same lot.
      DWELLING, DUPLEX OR TWO-FAMILY. A residential building containing 2
complete dwelling units.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE OR APARTMENT BUILDING. A residential building, or
portion of a building, containing 3 or more dwelling units served by a common
entrance.
      DWELLING, SEASONAL. A residential building not capable of year-round
occupancy due to non-winterized construction or inadequate nonconforming year-
round on-site sewage treatment systems.
      DWELLING, SINGLE. A residential building containing 1 detached dwelling
unit.
      DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE. A residential building containing 2 or more dwelling
units with at least 1 common wall, each unit so oriented as to have all exits
directly to the out-of-doors.
   DWELLING UNIT.  A residential accommodation including complete kitchen and
bathroom facilities, permanently installed, which is arranged, designed, used,
or intended for use exclusively as living quarters for 1 family.
   ENGINEER. The City Engineer.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES, GOVERNMENTAL USES, BUILDINGS AND STORAGE. Governmental
services such as office buildings, garages, temporary open space, open storage
when not the principal use, fire and police stations, recreational areas,
training centers, correctional facilities or other essential uses proposed by
federal, state, county, local, special districts and school districts, except
that schools shall not be permitted under this provision.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES (PUBLIC UTILITY USES). Underground or overhead gas,
electrical, steam, or water distribution systems; collection, communication,
supply or disposal system, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers,
pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants, or other similar equipment and accessories; but not including
buildings or transmission services.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES (PUBLIC UTILITY USES, TRANSMISSION SERVICES, BUILDINGS,
AND STORAGE).  Transmission service such as electrical power lines of a voltage
of 35 kV or greater, or bulk gas or fuel being transferred from station to
station and not intended for enroute consumption or other similar equipment and
accessories.
   EXTERIOR STORAGE (includes OPEN STORAGE). The storage of goods, materials,
equipment, manufactured products, personal property, and similar items not
fully enclosed by a building or fully screened.
   FAMILY.  An individual, or 2 or more persons each related by blood,
marriage, domestic partnership, adoption, or foster care arrangement, living
together as a single housekeeping unit, or a group of not more than 4 persons
not so related, living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling
unit.
   FARM, RURAL. A commercial food producing use on 10 or more contiguous acres
and is defined under a portion of Minnesota Agricultural Property Tax Law
(Green Acres Law), M.S. § 273.111, Agricultural Property Tax, Subd. 6, as it
may be amended from time to time, to wit: Real property shall be considered to
be an agricultural use, provided that annually it is devoted to the production
for sale of livestock, dairy animals, dairy products, poultry and poultry
products, fur-bearing animals, horticultural and nursery stock, fruit of all
kinds, vegetables, forage, grains, bees, apiary products.
   FARM, SUBURBAN.  A noncommercial food producing use primarily intended for
the use of the residents, and usually on less than 10 contiguous acres.
Suburban agricultural uses may include production of crops such as fruit trees,
shrubs, plants, flowers, vegetables, and domestic pets.
   FEED LOT. The place of housing or feeding of livestock or other animals for
food, fur, pleasure, or resale purposes in yards, lots, pens, buildings, or
other areas not normally used for pasture or crops and in which substantial
amounts of manure or related other wastes may originate by reason of such
feeding of animals.
   FENCE. A partition, structure, wall, or gate erected as a dividing marker,
visual or physical barrier, or enclosure.
   FILL.  Any act by which soil, earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any similar
material is deposited, placed, pushed, or transported and shall include the
conditions resulting therefrom.
   FINAL PLAT.  A drawing or map of an approved subdivision, meeting all
requirements of the Subdivision Regulations set forth in
Chapter 158, and in such form as required by the city for purposes of
recording.
   FLOOR AREA. The gross area of the main floor of a residential building
measured in square feet (outside measurement) and not an attached garage,
breezeway, or similar attachment.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the gross area of the various floors of a
building measured in square feet. The basement floor area shall not be included
unless that area constitutes a story.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO.  The numerical value obtained through dividing the gross
floor area of a building or buildings by the net area of the lot or parcel of
land on which the building or buildings are located.
   FLOOR PLAN, GENERAL. A graphic representation of the anticipated use of the
floor area within a building or structure.
   FRONTAGE. The boundary of a lot which abuts a public street or private road.
   FRONT YARD. The distance between the front building line of the primary
structure and the front lot line.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached 1-story accessory building, or portion of the
principal building, including a carport, which is used primarily for the
storing of passenger vehicles, trailers, or farm trucks.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A building or space for the repair or maintenance of motor
vehicles, but not including factory assembly of such vehicles, auto wrecking
establishments, or junk yards.
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of Lakeland.
   GUEST HOUSE.  An accessory building detached from the principal building
with temporary accommodation for sleeping but having no kitchen facility. It is
intended for the use of persons visiting the occupants of the principal
structure.
   HEIGHT, BUILDING. The vertical distance from the average of the highest and
lowest point of grade for that portion of the lot covered by building to the
highest point of the roof for flat roofs; to the roof deck line of mansard
roofs; and to the mean height between eaves and the highest ridge for gable,
hip, and gambrel roofs.
   HOME OCCUPATION.  A gainful occupation carried on by the occupant of their
dwelling unit or an accessory building. The occupation shall be clearly
incidental to the use of the home and all the appurtenant structures for
dwelling and residential purposes, and shall not change the character thereof.
(Am. Ord. 7432, passed 8-16-1982)
   HOTEL. A building having provision for 9 or more guests in which lodging is
provided with or without meals, for compensation, and which is open to
transient or permanent guests or both, and where no provision is made for
cooking in any guest room, and which ingress and egress to and from all rooms
is made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person in charge.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.  Land surface that prevents rainwater from soaking into
soil, including but not limited to structures, roads, parking areas, asphalt,
and packed gravel surfaces.
   INCIDENTAL USE. Secondary use to the principal structure.
   INSTITUTIONAL HOUSING. Housing for students, mentally and physically
handicapped, and similar housing of a specialized nature.
   JUNK VEHICLE.  
      (1)   Any type of vehicle requiring a license to operate on any public
highway or street, but without current license attached thereto.
      (2)   Any type of vehicle not in operable condition.
      (3)   Any type of vehicle that is partially dismantled or a source for
replacement parts for repair of other vehicles.
      (4)   Any type of vehicle that is kept for salvage or scrap of any sort.
   JUNK YARD. An area where discarded or salvaged materials are bought, sold,
exchanged, stored, baled, cleaned, packed, disassembled, or handled, including
but not limited to scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber products,
bottles, and used building materials. Storage of such material in conjunction
with a permitted manufacturing process when within an enclosed area or building
shall not be included.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any place where 4 or more of any type of domestic pets,
over 4 months of age, are boarded, bred, trained, or offered for sale.
   KENNEL, PRIVATE. Any place where 4 or more of any type of domestic pets,
over 4 months of age, are owned by any member or members of the household.
   KITCHEN. A space intended for food preparation which contains a sink with
counter working space, space for installing cooking and refrigeration
equipment, and space for the storage of cooking utensils and food.
   LAND ALTERATION. The excavation or grading of land involving movement of
earth and materials in excess of 50 cubic yards.
   LAND RECLAMATION.  The reclaiming of land by depositing material so as to
elevate the grade. Depositing a total of more than 50 cubic yards of material
per lot or parcel, either by hauling in or grading the area.
   LANDSCAPING. Planting trees, shrubs, and turf covers such as grasses and
shrubs.
   LOADING SPACE. A space, accessible from a street, alley, or way, in or
outside of a building, for the use of trucks while loading and unloading
merchandise or materials.
   LODGING ROOM.  A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities. In a suite of rooms without cooking facilities, each room
which provides sleeping accommodations shall be counted as 1 LODGING ROOM.
   LOT. A parcel of land designated by metes and bounds, registered land
survey, plat or other means, and which description is either recorded in the
office of the Washington County Recorder or Registrar of Titles or used by the
County Treasurer or County Assessor to separate the parcel from other lands for
tax purposes.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane within the lot lines.
   LOT AREA, MINIMUM PER DWELLING UNIT. The minimum number of square feet or
acres of lot area required per dwelling unit.
   LOT, BUILDABLE. A lot which meets or exceeds all requirements of the city
land use and development ordinances without the necessity of variances.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting 2 or more
intersecting streets; or a lot at the point of a deflection in alignment of a
single street, the interior angle of which does not exceed 135 degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lines of
a lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot, including through lots.
   LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot, except that where any portion of
a lot extends into a public right-of-way or a proposed public right-of-way, the
line of the public right-of-way shall be the LOT LINE.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which abuts a public street or a
private road. In the case of a corner lot, it shall be the shortest dimension
of a public street. If the dimensions of a corner lot are equal, the FRONT LOT
LINE shall be designated by the owner. In the case of a corner lot in a
nonresidential area, the lot shall be deemed to have frontage on both streets.
In the case of existing addresses the FRONT LOT LINE shall be considered the
address street.
      LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is opposite to the front lot
line. If the REAR LOT LINE is less than 10 feet in length, or if the lot forms
a point at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE shall be a line 10 feet in length within
the lot, parallel to, and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
      LOT LINE, SIDE.  Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT, THROUGH OR DOUBLE FRONTAGE. Any lot other than a corner lot which abuts
more than 1 street. On a THROUGH LOT, all the street lines shall be considered
the front lines for applying this chapter.
   LOT WIDTH.  The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot
measured at the setback line.
   MANUFACTURED HOMES. A structure not affixed to or part of real estate,
transportable in 1 or more sections which, in the traveling mode, is 8 body
feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected on
site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and
is designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation
when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating,
air conditioning, and electrical systems contained in it.
(Am. Ord. 7433, passed 9-21-1982)
   MANUFACTURING, GENERAL.  All manufacturing, compounding, processing,
packaging, treatment, or assembly of goods or materials which would involve a
risk of offensive or dangerous noise, odor or pollution beyond the lot on which
the use is located. Such uses include but are not limited to the following:
sawmill; refineries; commercial feedlots; acid, cement; explosives; flour, feed
and grain milling or storage; meat packing; slaughter houses; coal or tar
asphalt distillation; rendering of fat, grease, lard, or tallow; alcoholic
beverages; poisons; exterminating agents; glue; lime; gypsum; plaster of Paris;
tanneries; automobile parts; paper and paper products including storage;
electric power generation facilities; vinegar works; junk yards, auto reduction
yards; foundry; forge; casting of metal products; rock, stone, and cement
products.
   MANUFACTURING, LIMITED. All compounding, processing, packaging, treatment,
or assembly of goods and materials, provided the use will not involve the risk
of offensive odors, glare, smoke, dust, noise, vibrations, or other pollution
extending beyond the lot on which the use is located. Such uses include but are
not limited to the following: lumber yard, machine shops, products assembly,
sheet metal shops, plastics, electronics, general vehicle repair (repair
garage), body work and painting, contractor shops and storage yard, food and
nonalcoholic beverages, signs and displays, printing, publishing, fabricated
metal parts, appliances, clothing, textiles, and used auto parts.
   MANURE.  Any solid or liquid containing animal excreta.
   MEAN FLOW LEVEL. The average flow elevation of a stream or river computed as
the mid-point between extreme low and extreme high water.
   MEDICAL USES. Those uses concerned with the diagnosis, treatment, and care
of human beings. These include: hospitals, dental services, medical services or
clinics, nursing or convalescent home, orphan's home, rest home, and
sanitarium.
   MINING. The extraction of sand, gravel, rock, soil, or other material from
the land and the removal thereof from the site. For the purposes of this
chapter, MINING shall not include the removal of materials associated with the
construction of a building, the removal of excess materials in accordance with
approved plats or utility highway construction, minor agricultural and sod
removal.
   MOBILE HOME. A single-family detached dwelling unit designed for year-round
occupancy, constructed at a factory or assembly plant and drawn to the site on
a permanently attached undercarriage and wheels. MOBILE HOME shall not include
Trailer as herein defined, nor shall it include modular or prefabricated
dwelling units which meet or exceed the requirements of the State Building
Code.
   MOBILE HOME LOT.  A parcel of land for the placement of a single mobile home
for the exclusive.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any site or tract of land designed, maintained, or
intended for the placement of 2 or more occupied mobile homes. MOBILE HOME PARK
shall include any building, structure, vehicle, or enclosure intended for use
as part of equipment of the MOBILE HOME PARK.
   MODULAR OR PREFABRICATED HOME. A nonmobile dwelling unit for year-round
occupancy constructed or fabricated at a central factory and transported to a
building site where final installations are made permanently affixing the
dwelling unit to the site. The dwelling unit shall be equivalent to a unit
constructed on the site, meeting all requirements of the State Building Code.
   MOTOR COURTS, MOTOR HOTEL, or MOTEL. A building or group of buildings other
than a hotel used primarily as a temporary residence of a motorist.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL. A building or area in which freight brought by motor
truck is transferred and/or stored for movement by motor truck.
   MUNICIPALITY. A city, village, or borough, however organized.
   NOISE, AMBIENT. The all-encompassing noise associated with a given
environment, being either a composite of sounds transmitted by any means from
many sources near and far or a single predominant source.
   NOMINAL 5-ACRE PARCEL. A 5-acre parcel not reduced by more than 10% due to
road right-of-way dedication.
   NONCONFORMING USE OR LOT. Any legal use or lot already in existence,
recorded or authorized before the adoption of official controls or amendments
thereto that would not have been permitted to become established under the
terms of the official controls as now written (see §
159.005).
   NOXIOUS MATTER. Material which is capable of causing injury or is in any way
harmful to living organisms or is capable of causing detrimental effect upon
the physical or mental health of human beings.
    NURSERY, LANDSCAPE. A business growing and selling trees, flowering and
decorative plants, and shrubs which may be conducted within a building or
without.
   NURSING HOME. A building with facilities for the care of children, the aged,
infirm or place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders.
   OFFICIAL CONTROL. Legislatively defined and enacted policies, standards,
precise detailed maps, and other criteria, all of which control the physical
development of a municipality or a county, or any part thereof, or any detail
thereof, and the means of translating into ordinances all or any part of the
general objectives of the Comprehensive Plan. Such OFFICIAL CONTROLS may
include but are not limited to ordinances establishing zoning, subdivision
controls, site plan regulations, sanitary codes, building codes, housing codes,
and official maps.
   OFFICIAL MAP. A map adopted in accordance with the provisions of M.S. §
462.359, as it may be amended from time to time.
   OFFICE USES, GENERAL.  Shall be limited to those types of general office
operations, which are fundamentally clerical in nature and where there is no
on-site retail or wholesale functions being implemented within the office, and
where no medical or dental services such as from doctors, dentists, therapists,
or medical personnel are offered.
   OFFICE USES, SPECIFIC. Those business activities that take place in office
buildings where goods are not produced, sold, or repaired, including but not
limited to telephone exchanges, utility offices, radio broadcasting, banks, and
medical and dental offices including, by way of example, medical and dental
personnel, or any members of the healing arts.
(Am. Ord. 7501, passed 2-17-2004)
   OPEN SALES LOT.  Lands devoted to the display of goods for sale, rent,
lease, or trade where the goods are not enclosed within a building. Does not
include used cars. See USED CAR DEALERS.
   OPEN STORAGE.  Storage of any material outside of a building.
   OWNER.  Includes all persons interested in a property as fee simple owner,
life estate holder, encumbrance, or otherwise.
   PARKING SPACE.  A suitably surfaced and permanently maintained area on
privately owned property either within or outside of a building of sufficient
size to store 1 standard automobile.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way across or within a block or
tract, to be used by pedestrians.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS. The minimum development standards as adopted by the
City Council and on file in the office of the Building Official.
   PERSON.  Any person, firm, corporation, association, company, organization,
including governmental agencies and political entities.
   PLANNING AGENCY. A planning commission or department, however created, or
the Office of the Planning or Zoning Director or Inspector or the office of any
official designated as the Planning or Zoning Director or Inspector, together
with any staff members, employees or consultants of such commission,
department, director, inspector, or official, and the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals and its employees or staff.
   PLANNING COMMISSION or PLANNING ADVISORY COMMISSION.  The duly appointed
Planning and Zoning Advisory Commission of the city.
   PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS. An enclosed receptacle used for the temporary
storage of personal belongings on residential property.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE OR USE. One which determines the predominant use, as
contrasted to accessory use or structure.
   PROTECTIVE OR RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. A contract entered into between private
parties, which constitute a restriction of the use of a particular parcel of
property.
   PUBLIC LAND. Land owned and/or operated by a governmental unit, including
school districts.
   RACE TRACK. Any area where 1 or more animals or power driven vehicles are
raced for profit or pleasure.
   REAR YARD. The horizontal distance between the rear primary building line
and the rear lot line.
   RECREATION EQUIPMENT. Play apparatus such as swing sets and slides,
sandboxes, poles for nets, picnic tables, lawn chairs, barbecue stands and
similar equipment or structures, but not including tree houses, swimming pools,
play houses exceeding 25 square feet in floor area, or sheds utilized for
storage of equipment.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  
      (1)   Any vehicle or structure designed and used for temporary, seasonal
human living quarters which meets all of the following qualifications:
         (a)   Is not used as the permanent residence of the owner or occupant;
         (b)   Is used for temporary living quarters by the owner or occupant
while engaged in recreation or vacation activities; and
         (c)   Is towed or self-propelled on public streets or highways
incidental to recreation or vacation activities.
      (2)   Examples of such vehicles include van campers, tent camping
trailers, self-contained travel trailers, pick-up campers, camping buses, and
self-contained, self-propelled truck chassis mounted vehicles providing living
accommodations.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS.  A park, court, campsite, lot, parcel, or tract
of land designed, maintained or intended for the purpose of supplying the
location or accommodations for any recreation vehicles as defined herein, and
upon which the recreation vehicles are parked. The term RECREATION VEHICLE PARK
shall include all buildings used or intended for use as part of the equipment
thereof, whether a charge is made for the use of the park and its facilities or
not.
   RESEARCH. Medical, chemical, electrical, metallurgical, or other scientific
research and quality control, conducted in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.  See §
159.043 for permitted uses.
   RESORT.  Any structure or group of structures containing more than 2
dwelling units or separate living quarters designed or intended to serve as
seasonal or temporary dwellings on a rental or lease basis for profit with the
primary purpose of the structure or structures being recreational in nature.
Uses may include a grocery for guests only, fish cleaning house, marine
service, boat landing and rental, recreational area and equipment and similar
uses normally associated with a resort operation.
   RESTAURANT.  A building with facilities for the preparation and serving of
meals and where meals are regularly served at table to the general public.
Intoxicating liquors will not be sold, and live entertainment and or dancing
shall not be permitted.
   RETAIL BUSINESS DISTRICT. See §
159.043 for permitted uses.
   RETAIL BUSINESS USES. Stores and shops selling personal services or goods
for final consumption.
   ROADSIDE SALES STAND. A structure used only for the display and sale of
products on a seasonal basis, with no space for customers within the structure.
   RUNWAY. A surface of an airport landing strip.
   RUNWAY INSTRUMENT. A runway equipped with air navigation facilities suitable
to permit the landing of aircraft by an instrument approach under restricted
visibility conditions.
   SATELLITE DISH ANTENNAS. Any dish antenna having a diameter in excess of 30
inches utilized for the purpose of receiving or transmitting radio, telephone,
television, or satellite transmissions or communications.
(Am. Ord. 7443, passed 11-19-1985)
   SCHOOLS, PRIVATE. An institution for instruction in a skill or business and
supported by private funds or a corporation.
   SCHOOLS, PUBLIC. An institution for instruction in a skill or business and
supported by public funds.
   SCREENING. Includes earth mounds, berms, or ground forms; fences and walls;
landscaping (plant materials) or landscaped fixtures (such as timbers); used in
combination or singularly, so as to block direct visual access to an object
throughout the year.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure and street
right-of-way, lot line or other reference point as provided by ordinance.
Distances are to be measured perpendicularly from the property line to the most
outwardly extended portion of the structure.
   SHOPPING CENTER. Any grouping of 2 or more principal retail uses, whether on
a single lot or on abutting lots under multiple or single ownership.
   SIDE YARD. The horizontal distance between the side building line of the
primary structure and the side lot line.
   SIGN. A display, illustration, structure, or device which directs attention
to an object, produce, place, activity, person, institution, organization, or
business (see §§
159.180 through
159.205).
   STANDING COMMITTEE. A subunit of the City Council established in a permanent
fashion to aid the City Council in accomplishing its duties. A STANDING
COMMITTEE is usually granted jurisdiction over a particular Commission area by
the City Council, and may be made up of the Commissioner alone or multiple
members.
   STORY.  That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above. A basement shall be counted as a STORY
and a cellar shall not be counted as a STORY.
   STREET.  A public right-of-way which affords a primary means of access to
abutting property.
      STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which serves or is designed to serve as a
trafficway for a neighborhood or as a feeder to a major road.
      STREET, INTERMEDIATE OR MINOR ARTERIAL.  A street which serves or is
designed to serve heavy flows of traffic and which is used primarily as a route
for traffic between communities and/or other heavy traffic generating areas.
      STREET, LOCAL. A street intended to serve primarily as an access to
abutting properties.
   STREET PAVEMENT. The wearing or exposed surface of the roadway used by
vehicular traffic.
   STREET WIDTH. The width of the right-of-way measured at right angles to the
centerline of the street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change, other than incidental repairs, which
would affect the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls,
columns, beams, girders, or foundations.
   STRUCTURE. Anything which is built, constructed, or erected; an edifice or
building of any kind; or any piece of work artificially built up and/or
composed of parts joined together in some definite manner, whether temporary or
permanent in character. Among other things, STRUCTURES include buildings,
manufactured homes, walls, fences, swimming pools, billboards, and poster
panels.
   SUBDIVISION. A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided
into 2 or more lots or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership,
building development, or for tax assessment purposes. The term includes re-
subdivision and where it is appropriate to the context, relates to either the
process of subdividing, or to the land subdivided, or to the development for
which it is being subdivided.
   SUBSTANDARD STRUCTURE. See §
159.005(B) of this chapter.
   SUPPER CLUB. A building with facilities for the preparation and serving of
meals and where meals are regularly served at tables to the general public.
Intoxicating liquors may be sold on-sale and live entertainment and/or dancing
shall be permitted.
   TAVERN or BAR. A building with facilities for the serving of 3.2% malt
liquor, wine, set-ups and short order foods.
   TEMPORARY.  Lasting, used, or serving for a limited time; not permanent.
   TRAILER, UTILITY. A transport vehicle designed to be hauled by a motor
vehicle, i.e., snowmobile, enclosed and open trailers, and car dolly trailers.
   TRANSPORTATION TERMINAL.  Truck, taxi, air, bus, train, and mass transit
terminal and storage area, including motor freight (solid and liquid) terminal.
   TRUCK STOP. A motor fuel station devoted principally to the needs of tractor
trailer units and trucks, and which may include eating and/or sleeping
facilities.
   USE. See §
159.004.
      USE, ACCESSORY. A use subordinate to and serving the principal use or
structure on the same lot and customarily incidental to the principal use.
      USE, CONDITIONAL. See definition of Conditional use.
      USE, INCIDENTAL.  Secondary to the principal structure or use.
      USE, NONCONFORMING. See §
159.005.
      USE, OPEN.  The use of land without a building or including a building
incidental to the open use.
      USE, PRINCIPAL.  See definition of Principal use.
   USED CAR DEALERS. Business that buys, sells, displays or offers for sale
used motor vehicles as a principal business or as an adjunct to any other
business.
   VARIANCE. A modification or variation of the strict provisions of this
chapter as applied to a specific piece of property in order to provide relief
for a property owner because of undue hardship or particular difficulty imposed
upon the property by this chapter. A VARIANCE shall normally be limited to
height, bulk, and density and yard requirements and shall apply only to
property and stationary structures. A modification in the allowable uses within
a district shall not be considered a VARIANCE (see §
159.022(B)).
   VEHICLE REPAIR. The replacement of any part or repair of any part which does
not require the removal of the engine head or pan, engine transmission or
differential; incidental body and/or fender work, minor painting and
upholstering service when the service above as stated is applied to passenger
automobiles and trucks not in excess of 7,000 pounds gross vehicle weight and
is not conducted in a location which is within 150 feet of a residential
structure within the city.
   VETERINARY. Those uses concerned with the diagnosis, treatment, and medical
care of animals, including animal or pet hospitals.
   WAREHOUSING. The storage, packing, and crating of materials or equipment
within an enclosed building or structure.
   WATERFRONT USES, RESIDENTIAL. Boat docks and storage, fish house, fish
cleaning, water recreation equipment, and other uses normally incidental to a
lakeshore residence, provided the uses are for the exclusive use of the
occupants and nonpaying guests.
   WHOLESALING. The selling of goods, equipment, and materials by bulk to
another person who in turn sells the same to customers.
   YARD. The open space on an occupied lot which is not covered by any
structure.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of the lot between the
inner side yard lines and lying between the front line of the lot and the
nearest building line (see §
159.041, Chart).
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of the lot between the inner
side yard lines and lying between the rear line of the lot and the nearest
building line (see §
159.041, Chart).
      YARD, REQUIRED. A yard area which may not be built on or covered by
structures because of the dimensional setbacks for the structures within the
zoning district (see §
159.041, Chart).
      YARD, SIDE. A yard between the side property lines of the lot and the
nearest building line see §
159.041, Chart).
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area or areas within the city in which the regulations
and requirements of this chapter are uniform.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 301) (Am. Ord. 7539, passed 5-21-2013; Am. Ord. 2019-33;
passed – –2019; Am. Ord. 2020-07, passed – –2020)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 159.020 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Office of the Zoning Administrator is hereby established; the Zoning
Administrator shall be appointed by the City Council and serve at its pleasure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 501.01)
§ 159.021 DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall enforce the provisions of this chapter
as provided herein; in addition to the duties and powers of the Zoning
Administrator under this chapter, express or implied, the Administrator shall
have the duty and power to:
      (1)   Issue permits required by this chapter;
      (2)   Conduct inspections of land, buildings, or structures at reasonable
times, to determine compliance with and enforce the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Maintain all records necessary for the enforcement of this chapter;
including but not limited to all maps, amendments, and special use permits,
variances, appeal notices, and applications therefor;
      (4)   Receive, file, and forward all complete applications, appeals,
notices, for variances, special use permits, or other matters to the
appropriate officials or boards;
      (5)   Institute in the name of the city any appropriate actions or
proceedings to enforce this chapter; and
      (6)   Serve as ex officio, nonvoting member of the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 502.01)
   (B)   Zoning Administrator summary:
                  Property     Application Appeal Would  Public
Action When       Owner Should Will be     Be Considered Hearing  Reference
       Applicable Apply To     Approved or By            Required
                               Denied By
                           Property Owner Application    Appeal     Public
Action        When         Should Apply   Will be        Would Be   Hearing  Reference
              Applicable   To             Approved or    Considered Required
                                          Denied By      By
              Petition by                 Review and
              property                    recommendation Board of
Amendment of  owner or                    by Planning    Adjustment
Zoning        initiative   City Zoning    Commission,    and        Yes      §
Ordinance     of Planning  Administrator* final approval Appeals             159.026
              Commission                  by City        and Court
              or City                     Council
              Council
Building      Building and Local Building Local Building State               State
permits       construction Official       Official       Board of   No       Building
                                                         Appeals             Code
              Certifies
              building or
              structure    Issued upon                   State
Certificate   meets        approved       Local Building Board of   No       §
of occupancy  current      completion of  Official       Appeals             159.028
              codes and    structure
              can now be
              occupied
City permits
(grading and  Generally to
filling,      protect
parking,      health,                                    Board of
septic,       safety, and                                Adjustment
signs, soil   welfare of   City Zoning    City Zoning    and        No       §
conservation, occupants    Administrator* Administrator  Appeals             159.025
vegetative    and the                                    and Court
cutting, and  public, with
the like) and specific
Certificate   provisions
of compliance
              May allow                   Review and
              for uses not                recommendation Board of
Conditional   normally     City Zoning    by Planning    Adjustment          §
use permit    permitted in Administrator* Commission,    and        Yes      159.024
              a specific                  final approval Appeals
              zoning                      by City        and Court
              districts                   Council
                                          Review and
              2 or more                   recommendation Board of
Planned unit  principal    City Zoning    by Planning    Adjustment          §§
development   uses or      Administrator* Commission,    and        Yes      159.060 –
              buildings on                final approval Appeals             159.068
              1 parcel                    by City        and Court
                                          Council
              Certifies
Septic        septic       Local Septic   Local Septic
permits       systems meet System         System         NA         No       Ch. 157
              current      Official       Official
              codes
                                          Review and
                                          recommendation Board of
              Creating new City Zoning    by Planning    Adjustment
Subdivision   lots         Administrator* Commission,    and        Yes      Ch. 158
                                          final approval Appeals
                                          by City        and Court
                                          Council
              Difficulties
              with                        Board of                           §§
Variance      dimensional  City Zoning    Adjustment and Court      Yes      159.022 and
              provisions   Administrator* Appeals                            159.023 
              of Zoning
              Ordinance
* Fees established from time to time by ordinances of the City Council
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 502.02) (Am. Ord. 7555, passed 6-21-2016)
§ 159.022 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Filing.
      (1)   Applications shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator. The
application shall be accompanied by appropriate plans for the proposal, showing
such information as may be reasonably required by the Administrator, including
but not limited to those things listed below. Such plans shall contain
sufficient information for the city to determinate whether the proposal will
meet all applicable standards.
      (2)   In all cases, the application shall include the following
applicable to the application:
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant. If the application is being
made by someone other than the owner of the property, a signed statement from
the owner must accompany the application authorizing the applicant to represent
the property owner on this application;
         (b)   The name and address of the owners of the property and any
person having a legal interest therein, if other than the applicant;
         (c)   The legal description of the property involved in the request as
shown on a copy of the current property tax statement, including the street
address, if any, of the property;
         (d)   The reason for the application;
         (e)   A site plan drawn to scale showing the property dimensions or a
legal survey if requested by a representative of the city;
         (f)   Location of all existing and proposed buildings and their size,
including square footage and elevation of finished building;
         (g)   Proposed floor plan and elevations of any building with use
indicated;
         (h)   Sanitary sewer and water plan with estimated flow rates;
         (i)   Location of curb cuts, driveways, access road, parking spaces,
off-street loading areas and sidewalks, if applicable;
         (j)   An applicant's certificate showing the names and addresses of
the record owners of all property (obtained from the County Surveyor's office),
located within a minimum of 500 feet of all the contiguous property owned by
the applicant;
         (k)   Landscaping and screening plans including species and size of
trees and shrubs proposed;
         (l)   Finished grade and drainage plan sufficient to drain and dispose
of all surface water accumulated; and
         (m)   The application fee, as established by city ordinance, which can
be changed from time to time.
      (3)   The application process will not proceed forward until all
applicable items are provided to the Zoning Administrator and formally accepted
as a completed application.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 503.01)
   (B)   Public hearing. The Zoning Administrator shall process the application
and schedule a public hearing before the Planning Commission or City Council
(if required in §
159.021; see chart), and otherwise meet legal time requirements.
      (1)   Notice of the purpose, time, and place of the public hearing shall
be published in the official newspaper of the city and mailed to each of the
owners of all property located within a minimum of 500 feet of the property
described in the application and such other persons as the Planning Commission
may direct, as least 10 days prior to the date of the hearing. A copy of the
notice and a list of the owners and addresses to which the notice was sent
shall be attested to by the responsible person and shall be made a part of the
records of the proceedings. The failure to give mailed notice to individual
property owners or defects in the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings,
provided a bona fide attempt to comply with the provisions of this section has
been made.
      (2)   The applicant or the applicant's representative shall appear at the
public hearing to answer questions concerning the proposed application.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 503.02)
§ 159.023 APPEALS AND VARIANCES; BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Board of Adjustment and Appeals. The
Board of Adjustment and Appeals is the City Council, who shall have the
following powers with respect to this chapter.
      (1)   The exclusive power to hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
that there is an error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination
made by an administrative officer in the enforcement of the Zoning Regulations.
      (2)   The exclusive power to hear requests for variance from the literal
provisions of this chapter in instances where their strict enforcement would
cause undue hardship because of circumstances unique to the individual property
under consideration, and to grant such variances only when it is demonstrated
that the actions will be in keeping with the spirit and intent of this chapter.
The Board of Adjustment and Appeals may not permit as a variance any use that
is not permitted under this chapter for property in the zoning district where
the land is located. The Board may permit as a variance the temporary use of a
1-family dwelling as a 2-family dwelling. The Board may impose conditions in
the granting of a variance to ensure compliance and to protect adjacent
properties.
         (a)   Variances shall be permitted:
            1.   When they are in harmony with the general purposes and intent
of the ordinance; and
            2.   When the variances are consistent with the city’s
comprehensive plan.
         (b)   Variances may be granted when the applicant for the variances
establishes that there are practical difficulties in complying with the zoning
ordinance.
         (c)   PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES, as used in connection with the granting
of a variance, means:
            1.   The property owner proposes to use the property in a
reasonable manner not permitted by the ordinance;
            2.   The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to
the property not created by the landowner; and
            3.   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality. Economic considerations alone do no not constitute
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES.
      (3)   If an official map has been adopted by the city, to hear and decide
on appeal by the owner of land who has been denied a permit to build within the
limits of lands delineated on an official map which has been adopted and filed
by the city as provided by M.S. § 462.359, as it may be amended from time to
time, and to grant a permit for building in that location in any case in which
the Board finds, upon the evidence and the arguments presented to it, that:
         (a)   The entire property of the appellant of which the area
identified for public purposes forms a part that cannot yield a reasonable
return to the owner unless the permit is granted; and
         (b)   Balancing the interest of the City Council in preserving the
integrity of the official map and of the city Comprehensive Plan and the
interest of the owner of the property in use or that owner's property and in
the benefits of ownership, the granting of the permit is required by
considerations of justice and equity.
      (4)   In addition to the notice of hearing required by this chapter, a
notice shall be published in the official newspaper once at least 10 days
before the date of the hearing. If the Board of Adjustment authorizes the
issuance of a permit, the Council or other board or commission having
jurisdiction shall have 6 months from the date of the decision of the Board to
institute proceedings to acquire the land or interest therein, and if no such
proceedings are started within that time, the officer responsible for issuing
building permits shall issue the permit if the application otherwise conforms
to city ordinances. The Board shall specify the exact location, ground area,
height, and other details as to the extent and character of the building for
which the permit is granted.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 504.01)
   (B)   Appeals. An appeal from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of any administrative official may be taken by any person
affected thereby, or by any officer, department, board or bureau of a town,
municipality, county, or state within 30 days from the date of any such order,
requirement, decision, or determination by filing with the Zoning Administrator
a written notice of appeal.
      (1)   The notice of appeal shall state:
         (a)   The particular order, requirement, decision, or determination
from which the appeal is taken;
         (b)   The name and address of the appellant;
         (c)   The grounds for the appeal; and
         (d)    The relief requested by the appellant.
      (2)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the Board of Adjustment and Appeals, to whom the appeal is
taken certifies that, by reason of the facts stated in the certificate, a stay
would cause imminent peril to life or property.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly
or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination
appealed from and to that extent shall have all the powers of the officer from
whom the appeal was taken, and may direct the issuance of a permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 504.02)
   (C)   Variances. An application for a variance shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator; the application shall be accompanied by development plans
showing such information as the Zoning Administrator may reasonably require for
purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   The plans shall contain sufficient information for the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals to determine whether the proposed variance will meet all
applicable development standards if the variance is granted.
      (2)   In all cases, the application shall include the following
applicable to the application:
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant. If the application is being
made by someone other than the owner of the property, a signed statement from
the owner must accompany the application authorizing the applicant to represent
the property owner on this application;
         (b)   The name and address of the owners of the property and any
person having a legal interest therein, if other than the applicant;
         (c)   The legal description of the property involved in the request as
shown on a copy of the current property tax statement, including the street
address, if any, of the property;
         (d)   The reason for the application;
         (e)   A site plan drawn to scale showing the property dimensions or a
legal survey if requested by a representative of the city;
         (f)   Location of all existing and proposed buildings and their size,
including square footage and elevation of finished building;
         (g)   Proposed floor plan and elevations of any building with use
indicated;
         (h)   Sanitary sewer and water plan with estimated flow rates;
         (i)   Location of curb cuts, driveways, access road, parking spaces,
off-street loading areas, and sidewalks, if applicable;
         (j)   An applicant's certificate showing the names and addresses of
the record owners of all property (obtained from the County Surveyor's office),
located within a minimum of 500 feet of all the contiguous property owned by
the applicant;
         (k)   Landscaping and screening plans, including species and size of
trees and shrubs proposed;
         (l)   Finished grade and drainage plan sufficient to drain and dispose
of all surface water accumulated; and
         (m)   The application fee, as established by city ordinance, which can
be changed from time to time.
      (3)   The application process will not proceed forward until all
applicable items are provided to the Zoning Administrator and the application
is formally accepted as completed.
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals may impose conditions in the
granting of a variance which the Board may reasonably determine to be necessary
to protect adjacent properties, preserve the public health, safety, and welfare
and comply with the intent and purposes of this chapter.
      (5)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals may also impose such conditions
and requirements as are necessary to ensure compliance with the terms of the
variance.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 504.03) (Am. Ord. 7533, passed 6-19-2012)
   (D)   Public hearing. The Zoning Administrator shall process the application
and schedule a public hearing before the Planning Commission or City Council,
and otherwise meet legal time requirements.
      (1)   (a)   Notice of the purpose, time, and place of the public hearing
shall be published in the official newspaper of the city and mailed to each of
the owners of all property located within a minimum of 500 feet of the property
described in the application and such other persons as the Planning Commission
may direct, as least 10 days prior to the date of the hearing. A copy of the
notice and a list of the owners and addresses to which the notice was sent
shall be attested to by the responsible person and shall be made a part of the
records of the proceedings.
         (b)   The failure to give mailed notice to individual property owners
or defects in the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona
fide attempt to comply with the provisions of this section has been made.
      (2)   The applicant or that applicant's representative shall appear at
the public hearing to answer questions concerning the proposed application.
      (3)   On request of the Zoning Administrator, or Chairperson of the
Planning Commission, the Board shall continue the hearing within the time
prescribed by law, in order to allow the planning agency or its authorized
representative to review and report to the Board on the matter.
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall decide any appeal or any
application for a variance and issue its order with respect thereto within 30
days from the date of the hearing or any other date extended by the Commission
as provided or allowed by law.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 504.04)
   (E)   Order.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall make written findings in
any case of an appeal or application for a variance and shall state therein the
reasons for its decision; the order issued by the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals shall include the legal description of the land involved.
      (2)   Any such order shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator who
shall immediately mail a copy thereof, bearing the notation of the filing date,
to the appellant or applicant.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 504.05)
   (F)   Decisions final.  All decisions of the Board of Adjustment and Appeals
acting upon an appeal from an order, requirement, decision, or determination by
an administrative official or upon an application for a variance shall be
final, except that any aggrieved person may have any decision or order of the
Board reviewed by an appropriate remedy in District Court as provided by law.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 504.06)
§ 159.024 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS AND INTERIM USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The City Council may grant a conditional use permit or an interim
use permit, provided the proposed use is designated in §
159.005 or §
159.043 of this chapter as a conditional use or interim use for the district,
upon finding that:
         (a)   Certain conditions as detailed in this chapter exist;
         (b)   The use or development conforms to the zoning regulations of the
city;
         (c)   Is compatible with existing neighborhood; and/or
         (d)   Meets conditions or standards adopted by the city not
incorporated in this chapter.
      (2)   Conditional use permits shall be granted for a particular property
and use, and not for a particular person or firm.
      (3)   For all uses designated as a conditional use or interim use, the
City Council may determine whether to require a conditional use permit or an
interim use permit for the use.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 505.01)
   (B)   Record. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all
applications for and all conditional use permits and interim use permits issued
including information on the use, location, conditions imposed by the city,
time limits, review dates, and such other information as may be appropriate.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 505.02)
   (C)   Application. Application for a conditional use permit or interim use
permit shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator. The application shall be
accompanied by development plans for the proposed use showing such information
as may be reasonably required by the Administrator, including but not limited
to those things listed under division (C)(1) below.
      (1)   The plans shall contain sufficient information for the city to
determine whether the proposed development will meet all applicable development
standards.
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant. If the application is being
made by someone other than the owner of the property, a signed statement from
the owner must accompany the application authorizing the applicant to represent
the property owner on this application;
         (b)   The name and address of the owners of the property and any
person having a legal interest therein, if other than the applicant;
         (c)   The legal description of the property involved in the request as
shown on a copy of the current property tax statement, including the street
address, if any, of the property;
         (d)   A site plan drawn to scale showing the property dimensions or a
legal survey if requested by a representative of the city;
         (e)   Location of all existing and proposed buildings and their size,
including square footage and elevation of finished building;
         (f)   Proposed floor plan and elevations of any building with use
indicated;
         (g)   Sanitary sewer and water plan with estimated flow rates;
         (h)   Location of curb cuts, driveways, access road, parking spaces,
off-street loading areas and sidewalks, if applicable;
         (i)   Landscaping and screening plans, including species and size of
trees and shrubs proposed;
         (j)   Soil type and soil limitations for the intended use. If severe
soil limitations for the intended use are noted, a plan or statement indicating
the soil conservation practice or practices to be used to overcome the
limitations shall be made part of the application;
         (k)   A statement describing the reason for the application, including
business or activity and number of employees;
         (l)   An applicant's certificate showing the names and addresses of
the record owners of all property (obtained from the County Surveyor's office),
located within a minimum of 500 feet of all the contiguous property owned by
the applicant;
         (m)   A location map showing the general location of the proposed use
within the city, along with a map showing all principal land use within 500
feet of the parcel for which the application is being made, certified as to its
accuracy by the applicant; and
         (n)   The application fee, as established by city ordinance, which can
be changed from time to time.
      (2)   The application process will not proceed forward until all
applicable items are provided to the Zoning Administrator and formally accepted
as a completed application.
      (3)   The applicant shall supply proof of ownership of the property for
which the conditional use permit is requested, consisting of an abstract of
title or registered property certificate, certified by a licensed abstractor,
together with any unrecorded documents whereby the petitioners acquired legal
or equitable ownership.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 505.03)
   (D)   Public hearing. The Zoning Administrator shall refer the application
to the Planning Commission for consideration at its next regular meeting;
however, if the next regular meeting of the Planning Commission is within 15
days of the date of filing, then such consideration may be at the second
regular meeting after the filing. At that meeting, the Planning Commission
shall conduct a public hearing on the application. The public hearing shall be
scheduled by the Zoning Administrator and as provided or allowed by law.
      (1)   Notice of the purpose, time, and place of the public hearing shall
be published in the official newspaper of the city and mailed to each of the
owners of all property located within a minimum of 500 feet of the property
described in the application and such other persons as the Planning Commission
may direct, at least 10 days prior to the date of the hearing. A copy of the
notice and a list of the owners and addresses to which the notice was sent
shall be attested to by the responsible person and shall be made a part of the
records of the proceedings. The failure to give mailed notice to individual
property owners or defects in the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings,
provided a bona fide attempt to comply with the provisions of this section has
been made.
      (2)   The applicant or that applicant's representative must appear at the
public hearing in order to answer questions concerning the proposed use.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 505.04)
   (E)   Planning Commission report. The Planning Commission report on the
application, as provided in the official minutes of the public hearing/Planning
Commission meeting, shall be forwarded to the City Council, for consideration
at its next regular meeting; unless the applicant consents to extending
consideration by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   The report shall recommend that the conditional use permit or
interim use permit be granted or denied and shall include the Planning
Commission’s recommendation as to any conditions to be imposed if the
conditional use permit or interim use permit is granted, including time limits
or provisions for periodic review, and shall state the reasons therefor.
      (2)   The Planning Commission's report shall be referred by the Zoning
Administrator to the City Council for consideration at its next regular
meeting. At the same time, the Zoning Administrator shall mail to the applicant
a copy of the Planning Commission report and a notice of the time and place of
the meeting at which the report will be considered by the City Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 505.05)
   (F)   City Council action on application.  
      (1)   The City Council shall make its decision on the application within
the time prescribed by law. The City Council shall make written findings and
state therein the reasons for its decision; and the Zoning Administrator shall
mail a copy thereof bearing the notation of the filing date, to the applicant.
      (2)   The City Council may impose such conditions and restrictions, as
appear to be necessary and proper to protect adjacent property and comply with
the intent and purposes of this chapter and the Comprehensive Plan, as well as
a specific expiration date on the interim use permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 505.06)
   (G)   Re-application. No application for a conditional use permit or interim
use permit shall be resubmitted for a period of 6 months from the date of the
denial of a previous application.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 505.07)
   (H)   Renewal of interim use permit. The City Council shall establish a date
on which the interim use permit will expire. All interim use permits shall be
reviewed by the Planning Commissioner at a public hearing at least 1 month
prior to the expiration of the permit. Notice of the public hearing shall be
published in the official newspaper at least 10 days prior to the review. It
shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to schedule the public
hearing and notify the permit holder by mail at least 10 days prior to the
review hearing. The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the City
Council regarding the renewal of the interim use permit. The renewal may
involve adding conditions to the interim use permit. The City Council shall
make the determination regarding the renewal of the interim use permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 505.08)
   (I)   Compliance with permit; violation of conditions.  Any use permitted
under the terms of a conditional use permit or interim use permit shall be
established and conducted in accordance with all of the terms, conditions and
restrictions of such permit. The violation of any term, condition, or
restriction of a conditional use permit or interim use permit shall be a
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 505.09)
   (J)   Expiration and suspension of interim use permit. An interim use permit
shall expire 1 year after it has been issued unless the Planning Commission has
set some other time limitation or unless the use for which the permit has been
granted has commenced within such year, except that upon written application of
the owner of the affected land for which the conditional use permit or interim
use permit was granted prior to the end of the year, the City Council may
extend the expiration date of the permit for an additional period, not to
exceed 1 year. If, under the interim use permit, building is commenced and
subsequently determined by the Zoning Administrator to be abandoned for a
period of 120 days, the interim use permit shall be suspended at the end of the
120 days. Before the construction may be recommenced, an interim use permit can
be reinstated by the Planning Commission, provided that no changes or
alterations in the original plan have been made. If the building permit for the
construction that was determined to be abandoned became invalid prior to the
recommencement of the construction, the suspended conditional use permit or
interim use permit shall expire at the time the building permit became invalid.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 505.10)
   (K)   Administration. An amended conditional use permit application or
interim use permit application may be administered in a manner similar to that
required for a new conditional use permit or interim use permit. Amended
conditional use permits and interim use permits shall include reapplication for
permits that have been denied or permits that have expired, requests for
changes in conditions, and as otherwise described in this chapter. Clerical or
nonsubstantive changes to conditional use permits and interim use permits may
be processed under the administrative provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 505.11)
   (L)   Inclusion. All uses permitted by this chapter by conditional use
permit in existence prior to the adoption date of this chapter shall be
automatically issued a conditional use permit by the Zoning Administrator. Any
changes in the existing use after the adoption date of this chapter shall
require an amended conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 505.12) (Am. Ord. 7538, passed 6-21-2013; Am. Ord. 7548,
passed 10-20-2015)
§ 159.025 CITY PERMITS.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a city permit in any district for
a proposed use listed in §
159.043 as a use which must obtain a city permit and/or certificate of
compliance prior to construction, occupancy, or operation. City permits include
but are not limited to building, grading and filling, parking, septic, sign,
soil conservation, and vegetative cutting. The permit shall be granted for a
particular use and not for a particular person or firm.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 506.01)
   (B)   Conditions required by this chapter shall be applied to the issuance
of the city permit and a periodic review of the permit and proposed use may be
required. The permit shall be granted for a particular use and not for a
particular person or firm.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 506.02)
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all city permits
issued, including information on the use, location, and conditions imposed as
part of the permit, such as time limits, review dates, and such other
information as may be appropriate.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 506.03)
   (D)   Whenever this chapter requires a city permit, an application therefor,
in writing, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 506.04)
   (E)   (1)   The application shall be accompanied by development plans of the
proposed use showing such information as may be reasonably required by the
Zoning Administrator, including but not limited to those listed below. These
plans shall contain adequate information upon which the Zoning Administrator
can determine the proposed development will meet all development standards if
the project proceeds in accordance with the plans.
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant. If the application is being
made by someone other than the owner of the property, a signed statement from
the owner must accompany the application authorizing the applicant to represent
the property owner on this application;
         (b)   The name and address of the owners of the property and any
person having a legal interest therein, if other than the applicant;
         (c)   The legal description of the property involved in the request as
shown on a copy of the current property tax statement, including the street
address, if any, of the property;
         (d)   The reason for the application;
         (e)   A site plan drawn to scale showing the property dimensions or a
legal survey if requested by a representative of the city;
         (f)   Location of all existing and proposed buildings and their size,
including square footage and elevation of finished building;
         (g)   Proposed floor plan and elevations of any building with use
indicated;
         (h)   Sanitary sewer and water plan with estimated flow rates;
         (i)   Location of curb cuts, driveways, access road, parking spaces,
off-street loading areas and sidewalks, if applicable;
         (j)   An applicant's certificate showing the names and addresses of
the record owners of all property (obtained from the County Surveyor's office),
located within a minimum of 500 feet of all the contiguous property owned by
the applicant; and
         (k)   The application fee, as established by city ordinance, which can
be changed from time to time.
      (2)   The application process will not proceed forward until all
applicable items are provided to the Zoning Administrator and formally accepted
as a completed application.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 506.05)
   (F)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue or deny the request within 10
days of the date on which all of the required information has been submitted.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 506.06)
   (G)   If no such action on the request for a city permit is taken within
that time, the request for a city permit shall be considered denied.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 506.07)
   (H)   If the request for a city permit is denied or if conditions are
imposed, the applicant may appeal the decision to the City Council. The
procedures to be followed in this case shall be the same as those followed for
an appeal to any administrative decision made by the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 506.08)
§ 159.026 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Initiation. An amendment to this chapter may be initiated by the City
Council, the Planning Commission or by petition of affected property owners as
defined herein. An amendment not initiated by the Planning Commission shall be
referred to the Planning Commission for study and report, as hereinafter
provided, and may not be acted upon by the Council until it has received the
recommendation of the planning agency on the proposed amendment or until 30
days have elapsed from the date of reference of the amendment without a report
by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 508.01)
   (B)   Record. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all
applications for amendments to this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 508.02)
   (C)   Application. Where an amendment to this chapter is proposed by a
property owner, an application therefor shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator; the application shall be accompanied by development plans, if
any, for the use which requires the rezoning. The development plans shall show
such information as may be reasonably required by the Administrator, including
but not limited to those things listed below.
      (1)   The plans shall contain sufficient information for the city to
determine whether the proposed development is in keeping with the intent and
purpose of this chapter and the Comprehensive Plan.
         (a)   Site plan drawn to scale showing parcel and building dimensions;
         (b)   Location of all buildings and their size, including square
footage;
         (c)   Curb cuts, driveways, access roads, parking spaces, off-street
loading areas, and sidewalks;
         (d)   Landscaping and screening plans, including species and size of
trees and shrubs proposed;
         (e)   Finished grading and drainage plan sufficient to drain and
dispose of all surface water accumulated within the area;
         (f)   Type of business or activity and proposed number of employees;
         (g)   Proposed floor plan and elevations of any building with use
indicated;
         (h)   Sanitary sewer and water plan with estimated daily flow rates;
         (i)   Soil type and soil limitations for the intended use. If severe
soil limitations for the intended use are noted, a plan or statement indicating
the soil conservation practice or practices to be used to overcome the
limitation shall be made part of the application;
         (j)   A location map showing the general location of the proposed use
within the city; and
         (k)   A map showing all principal land use within 500 feet of the
parcel for which application is being made.
      (2)   The applicant shall supply proof of ownership of the property for
which the amendment is requested consisting of an abstract of title or
registered property certificate, certified by a licensed abstractor, together
with any unrecorded documents whereby the petitioners acquired legal or
equitable ownership.
      (3)   The application form shall be accompanied by an accurate list
showing the names and the mailing addresses of the record owners of all the
property within a minimum of 500 feet of the property for which the amendment
is sought, verified as to accuracy by the applicant.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 508.03)
   (D)   Public hearing. The Zoning Administrator shall refer the application
to the Planning Commission for consideration at its next regular meeting;
provided, however, if the next regular meeting of the Planning Commission is
within 15 days of the date of filing, then such consideration may be at the
second regular meeting after the filing. At that meeting, the Planning
Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the application. The public
hearing shall be scheduled by the Zoning Administrator within the times
specified by law.
      (1)   Notice of the purpose, time, and place of the public hearing shall
be published in the official newspaper of the city and mailed to each of the
owners of all property located within a minimum of 500 feet of the property
described in the application, and such other person as the Planning Commission
may direct, at least 10 days prior to the date of the hearing. A copy of the
notice and a list of the owners and addresses to which the notice was sent
shall be attested to by the responsible person and shall be made a part of the
records of the proceedings. The failure to give mailed notice to individual
property owners or defects in notice shall not invalidate the proceedings,
provided a bona fide attempt to comply with the provisions of this section has
been made.
      (2)   The applicant or that applicant's representative may appear at the
public hearing in order to answer questions concerning the proposed use.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 508.04)
   (E)   Planning Commission report.  The Planning Commission report on the
application, as provided in the official minutes of the public hearing/Planning
Commission meeting, shall be forwarded to the City Council, for consideration
at its next regular meeting; unless the applicant consents to extending
consideration by the Planning Commission. The report shall recommend that the
amendment be granted or denied and shall include the Planning Commission's
recommendation as to any conditions to be imposed if the amendment is granted,
including time limits or provisions for periodic review and shall state the
reasons therefor.
      (1)   The Planning Commission's report may be filed with the Zoning
Administrator who shall refer the same to the Council for consideration at its
next regular meeting; provided, however, if the next regular meeting of the
Council is within 7 days of the date of filing, then the consideration may be
at the second regular meeting after the filing. At the same time, the Zoning
Administrator shall mail to the applicant a copy of the Planning Commission's
report and a notice of the time and place of the meeting at which the City
Council will consider the report.
      (2)   If the Planning Commission fails to file a report with the Zoning
Administrator within the time provided by this section, the application shall
be referred to the Council as herein provided, without report, after the time
for filing the report has expired.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 508.05)
   (F)   Council action on application.  
      (1)   The Council shall make its decision on the application within the
time specified by law. The Council shall make written findings and shall state
therein the reasons for its decision. Any such order shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator who shall immediately mail a copy thereof, bearing the
notation of the filing date, to the applicant.
      (2)   In the event the order directs amendment of this chapter, the
Zoning Administrator shall refer the order to the City Attorney to prepare an
amendment of this chapter as provided by law.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 508.06)
   (G)   Re-application.  No re-application for zoning amendment shall be
resubmitted for a period of 6 months from the date of the denial of a previous
application.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 508.07)
   (H)   Planned unit development. Any application for amendment to this
chapter which relates to a specific tract of land shall be considered an
application for a planned unit development permit under the provisions of §§
159.060 through
159.068, and the provisions of that subchapter relating to applications for
permit and review thereof shall be controlling over the provisions of this
section; except where the application for amendment involves only a change in
the boundaries of existing zoning districts or reclassification of land from
one existing zoning classification to another existing classification.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 508.08)
   (I)   Zoning and the Comprehensive Plan. Any amendment to this chapter shall
amend the Comprehensive Plan in accordance therewith. The Planning Commission
shall inform the Council of any zoning proposal which does not conform to the
Comprehensive Plan and inform the Council as to why the plan should or should
not be amended.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 508.09)
   (J)   Hearing.  Prior to approval of any zoning change not conforming to the
Comprehensive Plan, a public hearing shall be conducted by the Planning
Commission and the results noted in the minutes of the official proceedings.
The public hearing required for the zoning change or amendment may also serve
as the public hearing for an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 508.10)
   (K)   Amendments. The City Council may adopt or amend a zoning ordinance by
a majority vote of all its members, unless the adoption or amendment of any
portion of a zoning ordinance would change all or part of the existing
classification of a zoning district from residential to either commercial or
industrial; then, pursuant to M.S. § 462.357, as it may be amended from time to
time, the adoption or amendment requires a 2/3 majority vote of all members.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 508.11)
   (L)   Compliance. In granting or recommending any rezoning provided for in
this chapter, the Zoning Administrator, the Planning Commission or City Council
shall find that the proposed development conforms substantially to the
policies, goals, and standards of the Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 508.12)
§ 159.027 PERMITS.
   (A)   Building permits and the building codes.
      (1)   No structure shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered
until a building permit shall have been issued, indicating that the existing or
proposed structure and the use of the land comply with this chapter and all
building codes.
      (2)   Building permits shall not be issued unless the proposed
improvement meets all of the requirements of the Building Code.
      (3)   No site preparation work, including rough grading, driveway
construction, footing excavation, tree removal, or other physical changes to
the site shall occur prior to the issuance of a building permit and other
zoning use permits.
      (4)   Applications for permits as required by this section shall be made
to the Zoning Administrator or Building Official on forms to be furnished by
that Administrator or Official. The Zoning Administrator or Building Official
shall maintain a record of all applications for and all permits issued under
this section.
      (5)   Application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a site
plan drawn to scale showing the dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the
size and location of the building, utilities including on-site septic systems
and accessory buildings to be erected, the vegetation and major topographic
changes and drawings of the improvement in sufficient detail to permit checking
against the Building Code, and such other information as the Zoning
Administrator or Building Official may reasonably require to determine
compliance with this chapter and the Building Code. In some cases, the Zoning
Administrator may require a certificate of survey before a building permit will
be issued.
      (6)   No building permit shall be issued for any improvement which would
result in a use, building or structure in violation of this chapter, or
Chapters
154,
156,
157,
158 or other city ordinance.
      (7)   All exterior work shall be completed within 180 days of the date of
permit issuance.
      (8)   Permits issued by the Zoning Administrator or Building Official
under the provisions of this division and the Building Code shall expire and be
null and void if the work authorized by a permit is abandoned or suspended for
a period of 120 days or in the event that work is not commenced or completed
within the time limitations of division (A)(7) of this section.
      (9)   The Building Official may, in writing, suspend, or revoke a permit
issued under the provisions of this chapter and the Building Code whenever the
permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or
in violation of any city ordinance, regulation, or code.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 509.01)
   (B)   Moving permits.  
      (1)   No building or structure which has been wholly or partially erected
shall be moved to any other location within the city unless a permit to move
the building or structure has been obtained or provided herein. Any such
building or structure proposed to be moved shall meet all requirements of the
Building Code applicable to a new building or structure.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not apply to construction sheds,
agricultural buildings or temporary structures to be located on a lot for 12
months or less.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 509.02)
   (C)   Septic permits.  
      (1)   In areas without public sewer facilities, no building permit for
any use requiring on-site sewage treatment and disposal shall be issued until a
septic permit has first been issued.
      (2)   A septic permit shall be issued only after proof is furnished by
the applicant that a suitable on-site sewage treatment and disposal system can
be installed on the site. Such system shall conform to all of the requirements
of
Chapter 157, including percolation tests and borings.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 509.03)
   (D)   Grading permits.  No person shall do any grading without first having
obtained a grading permit from the Zoning Administrator or Building Official
except for the following:
      (1)   Grading in an isolated, self-contained area if there is no danger
apparent to private or public property;
      (2)   An excavation below finished grade for basements and footing of a
building, retaining wall or other structure authorized by a valid building
permit. This shall not exempt any fill made with the material from such
excavation nor exempt any excavation having an unsupported height greater than
5 feet after the completion of the structure;
      (3)   Cemetery graves;
      (4)   Refuse disposal sites controlled by other regulations;
      (5)   Excavations for wells or tunnels or utilities;
      (6)   Mining, quarrying, excavating, processing, stockpiling of rock,
sand, gravel, aggregate, or clay where established and provided for by law,
provided such operations do not affect the lateral support or increase the
stresses in or pressure upon any adjacent or contiguous property;
      (7)   Exploratory excavations under the direction of soil engineers or
engineering geologists;
      (8)   An excavation which is less than 2 feet in depth or which does not
create a cut slope greater than 5 feet in height and steeper than 1-1/
2 horizontal to 1 vertical; and/or
      (9)   A fill less than 1 foot in depth, and placed on natural terrain
with a slope flatter than 5 horizontal to 1 vertical, or less than 3 feet in
depth, not intended to support structures, which does not exceed 50 cubic yards
on any 1 lot and does not obstruct a drainage course.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 509.04)
   (E)   Sign permits. Sign permits shall be required as stated in §§
159.180 through
159.205.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 509.05) (Am. Ord. 7555, passed 6-21-2016)
§ 159.028 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No person may change the use of any land (except for agricultural
purposes or for construction of essential services and transmission lines), or
occupy a new or structurally altered building used for nonagricultural use,
after the effective date of this chapter, unless that person has first obtained
a certificate of occupancy.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 510.01)
   (B)   Application for a certificate of occupancy for a new building or for
an existing building which has been so altered may be filed with the Building
Official any time after the application for a building permit for the building.
The certificate of occupancy shall be issued within 10 days after the
construction or alteration of the building or part thereof has been completed
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter and the Building Code.
Pending the issuance of the certificate, a temporary certificate of occupancy
may be issued, subject to the provisions of the Building Code. The temporary
certificate shall not be construed as in any way altering the respective
rights, duties, or obligations of the owners or of the city relating to the use
or occupancy of the premises or any other matter except under such restrictions
and provisions as will adequately ensure the safety of the occupants. The use
of any structure for which a building permit is required shall be considered a
violation of this chapter unless a certificate of occupancy has been issued.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 510.02)
   (C)   Application for a certificate of occupancy for a new use of land shall
be made to the Building Official before any such land shall be so used. The
certificate of occupancy shall be issued within 10 days after this application
if the use is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 510.03)
   (D)   A record of all applications for and certificates of occupancy shall
be kept on file.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 510.04) (Am. Ord. 7555, passed 6-21-2016)
§ 159.029 FEES.
   (A)   The city is authorized to impose fees, rates, or charges; and the same
shall be enumerated in this section, pursuant to the Master Fee Schedule
incorporated into the code as §
33.01. The Master Fee Schedule is subject to change and modification by
ordinance adopted by the City Council. In the event of any conflict between
this section and any other provision of the code, the more restrictive shall
control.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 511.01)
   (B)   The city is authorized to require escrow deposits in addition to
application fees; and the same shall be enumerated in this section, pursuant to
the Master Fee Schedule hereby incorporated into the code as §
33.01. The Master Fee Schedule is subject to change and modification by
ordinance of the City Council. In the event of any conflict between this
section and any other provision of the code, the more restrictive shall
control.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 511.02)
   (C)   Escrow deposits will provide the city necessary cash in an amount
estimated to be adequate to secure all city out-of-pocket expenses, including
but not limited to attorneys' fees, engineering fees, planning fees, and the
like, to complete the project. Should service costs approach the escrow total,
the applicant will be required to provide additional funds in the amount
determined by city staff; and the project will be suspended until additional
funds have been submitted. Any unused funds shall be returned to the applicant.
(Am. Ord. 7511, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 159.030 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (EAW) AND IMPACT STATEMENTS (EIS).
   (A)   No zoning, building permit, structure, or land use, variance, or
ordinance amendment shall be approved prior to review by the Zoning
Administrator to determine the necessity for completion of a Minnesota
Environmental Assessment Worksheet (EAW) as required by the Minnesota
Environmental Quality Board Regulations.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 512.01)
   (B)   The purpose of an EAW is to assess rapidly, in a worksheet format,
whether a proposed action is a major action with the potential for significant
environmental effects, or in the case of a private action, whether it is of
more than local significance.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 512.02)
   (C)   Projects which shall be required to file a mandatory Environmental
Assessment Worksheet (EAW) shall include:
      (1)   Construction of a new industrial park or more than 320 acres in
size;
      (2)   Construction of a facility or integral group of facilities with at
least 250,000 square feet of commercial or retail floor space or 175,000 square
feet of industrial floor space, or a mixture of commercial, industrial and
retail floor space totaling 250,000 square feet, unless located in an
industrial park for which an EIS has already been prepared;
      (3)   Any industrial, commercial, or residential development of 40 or
more acres, any part of which is within a floodplain, as defined by the
Statewide Standards and Criteria for Management of Floodplain Areas of
Minnesota;
      (4)   Construction of a commercial or industrial development, any part of
which is within a shoreland area (as defined by M.S. § 105.484, as it may be
amended from time to time, covering 20,000 or more square feet of ground space,
not including access roads or parking spaces, and located on a parcel of land
having 1,500 feet or more of shoreland frontage;
      (5)   Construction of a facility that generates more than a maximum of
2,500 vehicle trips per hour or a maximum of 12,500 vehicle trips per 8-hour
period;
      (6)   Construction or opening of a facility for mining gravel, other
nonmetallic minerals, and fuels involving more than 320 acres;
      (7)   An action that will eliminate or significantly alter a wetland of
Type 3, 4 or 5 (as defined in United States Department of Interior, Fish and
Wildlife Service, Circular 39, "Wetlands of the United States, 1956") of 5 or
more acres either singly or in a complex of 2 or more wetlands;
      (8)   Any marina and harbor project of more than 20,000 square feet of
surface area;
      (9)   Construction of a new or additional residential development that
includes 100 or more units in an un-sewered area or 500 or more units in a
sewered area;
      (10)   Construction of a residential development consisting of 50 or more
residential units, any part of which is within a shoreland area;
      (11)   Construction of a development consisting of condominium type
campgrounds, mobile home parks, or other semi-permanent residential and/or
recreational facilities, any part of which is within a shoreland area exceeding
a total of 50 units or, if located in areas other than above, exceeding a total
of 100 units; and
      (12)   Conversion of 40 or more contiguous acres of forest cover to a
different land use.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 512.03)
   (D)   An option EAW may be required by the City Zoning Administrator or City
Council or by any project applicant on any proposed action to determine if the
project has the potential for significant environmental effects or if the
project is of more than significance, provided any of the following situations
exist:
      (1)   The proposed project is in or near an area recognized in the City
Comprehensive Plan as being environmentally sensitive due to steep slopes,
bluffline exposed bedrock, floodplain or wetlands, streams or drainage areas,
groundwater, erodible soils, prime agricultural soils, or unique vegetation;
      (2)   The proposed project is in or near an area of natural aesthetics,
scenic views, delineated critical area or unique natural beauty as recognized
by the Comprehensive Plan, Planning Commission or City Council;
      (3)   The proposed project significantly alters existing traffic patterns
or increases the noise level on the roads or streets by more than 10%;
      (4)   The proposed project is adjacent to or near a public recreation
land or facility and alters or increases use, noise levels, traffic, or
degrades air quality or natural aesthetics as viewed from the facility;
      (5)   The project proposed is the construction of a new industrial park
of over 100 acres in size;
      (6)   The proposed project is the construction of a facility or integral
group of facilities with at least 100,000 square feet of commercial or retail
floor space or at least 100,000 square feet of industrial floor space, or a
mixture of commercial, industrial, and retail floor space totaling at least
100,000 square feet, unless located in an approved area for which an EIS has
already been prepared;
      (7)   The proposed project is construction or opening of a facility for
mining and/or processing of gravel, sand, other nonmetallic minerals and fuels
involving more than 50 acres; or
      (8)   The proposed project involves the construction of new or additional
residential subdivisions that include 50 or more lots in an unsewered area.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 512.04)
   (E)   The City Zoning Administrator or City Council shall cause to be
prepared an Environmental Assessment Worksheet which is mandatory or optionally
required. The project proposer shall provide to the Zoning Administrator a
draft worksheet. Pursuant to Minn. Administrative Rule 4410.100, as it may be
amended from time to time, if the Zoning Administrator determines the
proposer's submittal is complete, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the
proposer of the acceptance of the submittal within 5 days. If the Zoning
Administrator determines that the submittal is incomplete, the Zoning
Administrator shall promptly return the submittal to the proposer for
completion of the missing data. If the Zoning Administrator cannot complete the
EAW because of time or interest conflicts, the Zoning Administrator may utilize
professional consultants to gather necessary information and to complete the
worksheet.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 512.05)
   (F)   Upon completion of the worksheet, the Zoning Administrator shall write
a recommended finding from the worksheet on whether or not there are
significant environmental effects or effects of more than local significance
which shall require a Minnesota Environmental Impact Statement.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 512.06)
   (G)   The Zoning Administrator shall submit the Environmental Assessment
Worksheet and the Administrator's recommendation finding to the Planning
Commission at its next regular meeting or special meeting before the next
regularly scheduled City Council meeting. After reviewing the Zoning
Administrator's written findings, the Planning Commission shall recommend to
the City Council whether or not there are significant environmental effects
from the project to require the writing of an impact statement. The Planning
Commission may hear appeals of the Zoning Administrator's recommendation at
this meeting.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 512.07)
   (H)   Within 30 days from notification of the proposer's acceptance, the
City Council shall have reviewed any appeals, the Zoning Administrator's
written finding, and the Planning Commission recommendation and shall have
forwarded its final decision on the necessity for preparing an Environmental
Impact Statement to the Minnesota Environmental Quality Board to be officially
published in the Environmental Quality Board Monitor. The City Council shall
not be responsible for the completeness and accuracy of all information.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 512.08)
   (I)   (1)   Copies of the Zoning Administrator's written findings on the
worksheet and the City Council's final decision shall be distributed, within 5
days of the approval, to:
         (a)   Each member of the EQB board;
         (b)   The proposer of the project;
         (c)   The U.S. Corps of Engineers,
         (d)   The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
         (e)   The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service;
         (f)   The State Historical Society;
         (g)   The Environmental Conservation Library;
         (h)   The Legislative Reference Library;
         (i)   The Regional Development Commission and regional development
library for the region of the project site;
         (j)   The local governmental unit within which the project will take
place;
         (k)   The representative of any petitioners pursuant to Minn.
Administrative Code 4410.1100, as it may be amended from time to time; and
         (l)   Any other person upon written request.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall also submit an affidavit certifying
the date and places copies of the worksheet were submitted.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 512.09)
   (J)   Within 5 days of the date of submission of the EAW to the EQB staff,
the City Council shall provide a press release, containing notice of the
availability of the EAW for public review, to at least 1 newspaper of general
circulation within the area where the project is proposed. The press release
shall include the name and location of the project, a brief description of the
project, the location at which copies of the EAW are available for review, the
date the comment period expires, and the procedures for commenting. The City
Council shall also publish legal notice or advertisement, which includes that
which must be included in the press release, of the availability of the EAW
additionally if the proposer requests and agrees to pay for the notice or
advertisement.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 512.10)
   (K)   Thirty days after the date of the publication of the City Council's
decision in the Environmental Quality Board Monitor, if no objections are filed
with the EQB, the decision stands.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 512.11)
   (L)   If preparation of an EIS is required, the proponent shall follow the
procedure outlined in the State of Minnesota Quality Board Regulations
concerning Environmental Impact Statements. A draft impact statement, as
prepared by or under the direction of the Zoning Administrator, shall be
prepared and filed with the EQB within 120 days of the decision to require an
Environmental Impact Statement.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 512.12)
   (M)   Any proposed project or use on which an EIS is required shall be
considered a conditional use as defined in the current zoning ordinance and
shall comply with the procedure for approval of a conditional use permit.
Mitigating recommendations of the EIS shall be incorporated as conditions of
issuance on the conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 512.13)
   (N)   Time delays in the normal permit process caused by the filing and
review of the EAW and/or EIS shall not be considered part of the permit
approval time requirements within this chapter. Such delays shall be considered
as additional required time for each required permit. The permit process for
the proposed project may be continued from the point it was interrupted by the
worksheet/EIS process.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 512.14)
   (O)   Construction begun on projects requiring an EAW shall be halted at
such time as an EIS is officially required by the Environmental Quality Board
or City Council regulations.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 512.15)
   (P)   Any applicant shall agree in writing as part of that applicant's
application to reimburse the City Council prior to the issuance of any permits,
for all reasonable costs, including legal and consultant fees incurred by the
City Council in review of the applicant's project and its impact on the city.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 512.16)
   (Q)   (1)   The applicant shall deposit with the city from time to time an
amount determined by the Zoning Administrator necessary to cover the costs
prior to commencement of the review or stage of the review.
      (2)   The applicant shall reimburse the Security Fund for any deficits
caused if the amount actually expended or billed to the city by the consultants
exceeds the Security Fund balance.
         (a)   The city shall refund any money deposited in the Security Fund
and not expended within 30 days after final action on the application.
         (b)   The city shall not pay interest on these security deposits.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 512.17)
ZONING DISTRICTS, PERMITTED USES AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
§ 159.040 DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Districts, generally.  For the purpose of this chapter, the city is
hereby divided into the following basic zoning use districts:
 
District Symbol, Intent, and Primary Use
    Preserve land to be utilized for interim agriculture and commercial food
A-1 production. A-1 Districts provide areas of rural lot density housing with
    lots large enough for significant agricultural activity to occur
    Provide low density residential area in rapidly developing rural settings.
    R-1 Districts will provide lots large enough to maintain a semi-rural
R-1 setting, but lots not large enough to support commercial agriculture. R-
    1 Districts will provide a buffer between agriculture districts and urban,
    or rapidly developing district
R-3 Provide residential lots for those people who desire larger lots than are
    provided for in an urban area
    Provide land for Retail Business, primarily shopping, in areas where there
RB  is, or will be, the greatest demand for such services and in areas capable
    of supporting the intensive use of the land demanded by retail businesses
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 601.01)
   (B)   Overlay zoning use districts. At the time of adoption of this chapter
or at some future date, the City Council may adopt overlay districts to promote
specific orderly development or to protect some specific sensitive natural
resource (see §
159.042).
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 601.02)
   (C)   Overlay regulations. The following overlay regulations are in addition
to regulations imposed by the existing basic zoning use districts:
 
District Symbol Intent and Primary Use
AZ              Protect life from potential aircraft catastrophe and noise by
                restricting development in Airport Zones
                Allow innovative and flexible design for developments that are
PUD             more sympathetic to both humans and nature, and which are not
                possible under current regulations
                Protect the natural environment, homes and other structures
FP              from floodwaters by preserving the natural overflow areas of
                lakes, streams, and rivers
                Conserve and protect the natural scenic values and resources of
SCRD            the St. Croix River Valley in order to maintain the high
                standard of environmental quality indicative of one of the few
                remaining wild rivers in the nation
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 §§ 601.03, 601.04)
§ 159.041 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following chart sets out the minimum area, maximum height, and
other dimension requirements of each zoning district.
Units/Dimensions Zoning Districts
                 A-1 R-1 R-3 RB SCRD
Units/Dimensions                                                             Zoning Districts
                                                                             A-1  R-1    R-3      RB     SCRD
(1)   Lot area per dwelling unit (sq. ft.)
   One-family structure______                                             10A  2-1/   24,000   ----
                                                                                  2 A
   Two-family structure______                                             10A  2-1/   10,000   ----
                                                                                  2 A
                                                                                         10,000++        See § 155.16 in Lower St Croix River Bluffland and Shoreland Management
                                                                                         with            Regulations
   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit (sq. ft.) in cluster development on 2-1/ 1-1/   central  ----
approved soils                                                               2 A  2 5A   sewer
                                                                                         and
                                                                                         water
   Minimum lot area in normal subdivisions w/o central sewer and water    10A  2-1/   24,000   24,000
                                                                                  2 A
   Multiple-family structures with 3 families or over (public sewer
required)
      Efficiency unit____________                                      ---- ----   2,000    ----
      One bedroom unit_________                                        ---- ----   2,800    ----
      Two bedroom unit_________                                        ---- ----   3,500    ----
      Three bedroom unit________                                       ---- ----   4,500    ----
      *more than 3 bedroom unit
(1a)   Minimum width                                                      21** 21**
(2)   Minimum ground floor area per dwelling unit (sq. ft.) – 1-family
structure
   One story_________________                                             960  960    960      ----
   One and one-half or 2-story                                            800  800    800      ----
(3)   Minimum floor area per dwelling unit (sq. ft.)
   Two-family structure_______                                            850  850    850      ----
   Multiple-family structures with 3 families or more:
      Efficiency unit____________                                      ---- 500    500      ----
      One bedroom unit_________                                        ---- 600    600      ----
      Two bedroom unit_________                                        ---- 750    750      ----
      Three bedroom unit________                                       ---- 1,000  1,000    ----
      *** more than 3 bedroom unit
(4)   Minimum nonresidential lot area (sq. ft.) with central sewer and wat---- 24,000 24,000   24,000
(5)   Minimum lot width at front lot line (feet)________                  300  160    100      100
(6)   Minimum lot depth________                                           ---- 130    130      150
(7)   Minimum front yard setback (feet)                                   40   40     30****   40
(8)   Minimum side yard setback (feet)
   From street in case of corner lot                                      40   40     30       40
   From interior lot line________                                         20   20     10       20
(9)   Minimum rear yard setback (feet)                                    50   50     30       30
(10)   Height (maximum feet)_______                                       35   35     35       45
(11)   Maximum floor area ratio____                                       30%  30%    30%      40%
(12)   Impervious surfaces                                                50%  50%    50%      80%
Notes:
*   500 additional square feet for each additional bedroom
**   With a continuous common roof
***   Each additional bedroom requires 250 square feet of additional minimum floor space
****   In lots where the electric, gas, or phone utilities are buried, the front setback shall be 40 feet
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 602.01)
   (B)   Additions and exceptions to minimum area, height, and other
requirements.
      (1)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the term EXISTING LOT
shall mean a lot or parcel of land which was of record as a separate lot or
parcel in the office of the Washington County Recorder or Registrar of Titles,
on or before the date of adoption of this chapter.
      (2)   Exemptions. Any such lot or parcel created in accordance with the
City Subdivision Regulations set forth in
Chapter 158 and is at least 2-1/2 acres in size, shall be exempt from the
requirements of divisions (B)(3) and (4) and shall be considered buildable if
the lot or parcel can comply with the remaining requirements of this section.
      (3)   Lesser area.  Any such lot or parcel of land less than 2-1/2 acres
which is in a residential or agricultural district may be used for single-
family detached dwelling purposes, provided the area and width thereof are
within 60% of the minimum requirements of this section; provided all setback
requirements of this chapter can be maintained; and provided it can be
demonstrated that a safe and adequate sewage treatment system can be installed
to serve a permanent dwelling.
      (4)   Insufficient area or width. If in a group of 2 or more contiguous
lots or parcels of land owned or controlled by the same person, any individual
lot or parcel does not meet the full width or area requirements of this
chapter, the individual lot or parcel cannot be considered as a separate parcel
of land for purposes of sale or development, but must be combined with adjacent
lots or parcels under the same ownership.
      (5)   Subdivision of lots. Any lot or parcel of land subdivided by any
means after the effective date of this chapter for purposes of erecting a
structure must be approved as required by the City Subdivision Ordinance set
forth in
Chapter 158.
      (6)   Lake and stream frontage lots. All lots having frontage on a lake
or stream shall be subject to the provisions of any City Shoreland Management
Ordinance, as well as the regulations provided by this chapter. All lots on
unclassified bodies of water in the Shoreland Management Ordinance shall meet
the minimum setback requirements for a general development lake.
      (7)   Lots in the floodplain. All lots in a designated floodplain shall
be subject to the City Floodplain Ordinance as set forth in
Chapter 154 as well as the regulations provided by this chapter.
      (8)   Reduction of required yard of lot size prohibited. No yard shall be
reduced in area or dimension so as to make it less than the minimum required by
this chapter, and if the existing yard is less than the minimum required, it
shall not be further reduced. No required yard currently used for a building or
dwelling group shall be used to satisfy minimum lot area requirements for any
other building.
      (9)   Sloping or erodible building sites.  On sites with slopes of
greater than 25% or on easily erodible soils as defined on the community soils
maps and compiled by the Washington County Soils Conservation District, no
structure shall be constructed (also see §
159.148).
      (10)   Heavily wooded sites. On any lot, clear cutting shall require a
conditional use permit. A certificate of compliance shall be required for all
cutting on all slopes in excess of 18%. On such slopes, a revegetation plan
shall also be required prior to issuance of a building permit (see §§
159.148 and
159.156).
      (11)   Building permit; restrictions on issuance. A building permit shall
not be issued for a lot which either does not meet the minimum acres of
acceptable soils for onsite sewage treatment; or does not have enough
acceptable soils within the lot or under legal contract to construct at least 2
complete septic/drainfield treatment systems.
      (12)   High-rise multiple dwelling structures.  The density standards
applicable to multiple dwellings in structures exceeding 3-1/2 stories in
height shall be as follows:
 
Number of Stories Lot Area Required Per Dwelling Unit
3-1/2 to 6        2,000 square feet
6 to 12           1,500 square feet
12+               1,000 square feet
 
These requirements shall apply regardless of the number of bedrooms per
dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 602.02)
   (C)   Permitted encroachments on required yards.  The following shall be
permitted encroachments into setback and height requirements, except as
restricted by other sections of this chapter:
      (1)   In any yards: Posts, off-street open parking, flues, leaders,
sills, pilasters, lintels, cornices, eaves (up to 3 feet), gutters, awnings,
open terraces, steps, chimneys, flag poles, open fire escapes, sidewalks,
fences, essential services, exposed ramps (wheelchair), uncovered porches,
stoops or similar features, provided they do not extend above the height of the
ground floor level of the principal structure or to a distance less than 3 feet
from any lot line nor less than 1 foot from any existing or proposed driveway;
yard lights and nameplate signs; trees, shrubs, plants; floodlights or other
sources of light illuminating authorized illuminated signs, or light standards
for illuminating parking areas, loading areas or yards for safety and security
reasons, provided the direct source of light is not visible from the public
right-of-way or adjacent residential property.
      (2)   In side and rear yards: Fences 30% open; walls and hedges 6 feet in
height or less; bays not to exceed a depth of 3 feet or containing an area of
more than 30 square feet; fire escapes not to exceed a width of 3 feet.
      (3)   On a corner lot: Nothing shall be placed or allowed to grow in such
a manner as materially to impede vision between a height of 2-1/2 and 10 feet
above the centerline grades of the intersecting streets within 100 feet of the
intersection.
      (4)   In no event shall off-street parking, structures of any type,
buildings or other improvements cover more than 50% of the residential lot
areas. In no event shall the landscaped portion of the lot be less than 25% of
the entire lot as a result of permitted encroachments.
      (5)   In R-1 and R-3 Residential Districts, detached garages, tool sheds,
pools (above- or below- ground), gazebos, and decks (attached to the principal
structure) shall be permitted to encroach up to 15 feet into the established
rear yard setback for such districts. Notwithstanding the above, no such
structure permitted to encroach within the rear yard setback shall have a
height in excess of 15 feet.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 602.03) (Am. Ord. 7458, passed 12-20-1988)
   (D)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Front setbacks. Where a vacant buildable lot is adjacent to
structures existing at the time of adoption of this chapter having a
substandard setback from that required by this section, the Zoning
Administrator shall determine a reasonable, average, calculated front yard
setback to implement the requirements of this section, and to fulfill its
purpose and intent. However, in no case shall a building be required to be set
back more than 180 feet from the street centerline, except where an industrial
district is adjacent to a residential district. In a residential district, the
front yard setback shall conform to the established setback line, unless the
Zoning Administrator determines that another setback is more appropriate as
provided herein.
      (2)   Side and rear setbacks. Subject to regulations contained in the
Building Code and other applicable regulations, side and rear setback
requirements may be waived, provided party walls are used and the adjacent
buildings are constructed as an integral unit and are part of an approved
shopping center, townhouse development, or other similar development. Such
waiver shall only be by issuance of a conditional use permit.
      (3)   Setbacks adjacent to residential areas. Where a commercial district
is adjacent to a residential district, the minimum commercial building setback
from the lot line shall be 35 feet. In the case of industrial districts, such a
minimum setback shall be 75 feet.
      (4)   Setbacks along arterials. Along roads and streets designated as
arterials in the Comprehensive Plan, the minimum front setback for principal
buildings shall be 150 feet from the nearest planned street centerline.
      (5)   Setbacks from private roads. All setback requirements of this
section shall also be applicable to private roads and easement access rights-
of-way.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 602.04)
   (E)   Height.
      (1)   No structure shall exceed 35 feet in height, including church
spires, belfries, cupolas and domes, monuments, chimneys and smokestacks, flag
poles, public facilities, transmission towers of private radio broadcasting
stations, television antennas, except barns, silos, and other farm structures,
utility transmission services, and transmission towers of commercial
broadcasting stations, except in RB District which allows 45 feet.
      (2)   Parapet walls shall not extend more than 4 feet above the height
permitted of the buildings.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 602.05)
   (F)   Cluster development standards.  The purpose of this section is to
provide a method by which parcels of land in the residential and A-1 Districts
having unusual building characteristics due to subsoil conditions, elevation of
water table, water area, relative location or shape of the parcel, may be more
efficiently used. Cluster development may also provide a means to preserve good
agricultural land, open green space, scenic views, and other desirable features
of the natural environment. The owner of any tract of land in any residential
and A-1 District may submit a plan on the use and development of the tract of
land as a cluster development to the City Council for a conditional use permit
authorizing completion of the project according to the plan. The plan for the
proposed project shall conform to the requirements of the use district within
which the plan is located, except as hereinafter provided:
      (1)   The entire tract of land for which a cluster development is
proposed shall not be less than 3 acres in size.
      (2)   The applicant shall state precisely the unusual characteristics of
the land or other reason justifying the granting of a conditional use permit
for a cluster development.
      (3)   A preliminary plat shall be submitted that complies with the City
Subdivision Regulations set forth in
Chapter 158.
      (4)   The number of dwelling units proposed for the entire site shall not
exceed the total number of permitted for the R-1 or A-1 Districts within which
the land is located. In all other residential districts, including R-
3 Districts with public sewer and water, the number of dwelling units shall not
exceed 50% more than the total number of dwelling units permitted if the
development was based on the minimum lot size requirements for single-family
residential subdivision.
      (5)   The land which is to be set aside as common land shall be clearly
identified and dedicated as such on the plan. Provisions shall be required for
continual maintenance of any common land not dedicated as public property and
accepted by the city.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 602.06)
§ 159.042 ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of the districts as established by this chapter are as
shown on the map included in
Appendix A to this chapter. The map is designated as the Official Zoning Map of
the city and shall be maintained as provided herein by the City Zoning
Administrator. The district boundary lines on the map are intended to follow
street right-of-way lines, street centerlines or lot lines unless the boundary
line is otherwise indicated on the map. In the case of unsubdivided property or
in any case where street or lot lines are not used as boundaries, the district
boundary lines shall be determined by use of dimensions or the scale appearing
on the map. All of the notations, references and other information shown
thereon shall have the same force and effect as if fully set forth herein and
are hereby made a part of this chapter by reference and incorporated herein as
fully as if set forth herein at length. Whenever any street or other public way
is vacated, any zoning district line following the centerline of the vacated
street or way shall not be affected by the vacation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 603.01)
   (B)   When any permit is issued for a planned unit development or any other
permit which affects any zoning district in a substantial way, the permit shall
be coded and noted on the zoning district map by the Zoning Administrator so as
to clearly indicate the use so permitted which may not otherwise be clearly
evident from the map or text of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 603.02)
   (C)   (1)   When uses in a district are listed as both permitted and as
conditional uses, and when any other conflict appears in this chapter with
respect to permitted uses within a district, the more restrictive portion shall
be applied.
      (2)   Where any proposed use for any district is not listed in §
159.043 but is determined by the City Council to be similar in character to a
use listed in §
159.043, the City Council may require the proponent of that use to proceed
under provisions of this chapter applicable to that similar use. Where any
proposed use for any district is not listed in §
159.043 and is determined by the City Council not to be similar in character to
any use listed therein, that proposed use shall be allowed in any district.
Such a determination by the City Council shall not preclude the proponent of
the use from making immediate application to the city for amendment of this
chapter pursuant to §
159.026.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 603.03)
§ 159.043 USES.
   The following table represents the uses and restrictions for the city. The
key is as follows:
KEY:
   P    =    Permitted
   C/IUP    =    Conditional Use Permit or Interim Use Permit and Public
Hearing
   CP    =    City Permit
   A    =    Permitted Accessory Use
   N    =    Not Permitted
   *    =    N in R-1
Use District
    Agricultural A-1 Residential R-1 Residential R-3 Commercial (RB)
                                                                          District
Use                                                                       Agricultural Residential Residential Commercial
                                                                          A-1          R-1         R-3         (RB)
Adult uses                                                                N            N           N           C
Agriculture - rural                                                       (see §
                                                                          159.150) - - -
Agriculture - suburban                                                    (see §
                                                                          159.150) - - -
Airports, airstrip, heliports                                             N            N           N           N
Animals - commercial training                                             C            N           N           C
Animals - domestic farm (see §                                           A            C           N           N
159.114)
Antennas or towers over 45 feet in height (as permitted by §             C            C           N           C
159.041)
Archery range - commercial outdoors                                       C            N           N           N
Armories, convention halls and similar uses                               N            N           N           C
Apartment building (with central sewer) (see §                           N            N           N           N
159.100)
Auto/car wash                                                             N            N           N           C
Auto reduction yard; junk yard                                            N            N           N           N
Automobile repair                                                         N            N           N           CP
Automobile service station (see §                                        N            N           N           CP
159.115)
Bars and taverns                                                          N            N           N           C
Bed & breakfast                                                           N            N           N           C
Blacktop or crushing equipment for highways                               N            N           N           C
Boarders (not more than 2)                                                A            A           A           N
Boarders (not more than 4)                                                A            CP          CP          N
Boat dock (noncommercial)                                                 A            A           A           N
Boat, trailer, marine sales (interior)                                    N            N           N           CP
Boat, trailer, marine sales (exterior)                                    N            N           N           C
Broadcasting studio                                                       N            N           N           C
Cafes and restaurants                                                     N            N           N           CP
Cannabis uses                                                             ….See
                                                                          Ch. 117….
Care facility (see §                                                     C            N           N           N
159.130)
Cemeteries                                                                C            C           C           N
Churches                                                                  CP           CP          CP          CP
Clear cutting (see §                                                     C            C           N           N
159.156)
Clubs or lodges                                                           C            C           N           C
Cluster developments                                                      ….See §
                                                                          159.102….
Commercial schools                                                        N            N           N           N
                                                                          C (IUP)      C (IUP)
Commercial special occasion ceremony venue                                accessory    accessory   N           N
                                                                          use          use
Convents                                                                  C            C           C           N
Day care                                                                  CP           CP          CP          CP
Disposal areas - solid and liquid waste                                   N            N           N           N
Domestic pets                                                             P            P           P           P
Drive-in business (see §                                                 N            N           N           C
159.110)
Essential services - government uses, buildings and storage               CP           CP          CP          CP
Essential services - transmission services, building and                  CP           CP          CP          CP
Explosive - manufacture, storage (see §                                  N            N           N           N
159.152)
Explosive - utilization (see §                                           C            N           N           N
159.152)
Farm (see agriculture)
Farm equipment sales (exterior)                                           C            N           N           C
Feed lots - commercial (see §§
159.114 and                                                               C            N           N           N
159.150)
Fences (see §                                                            A            A           A           A
159.086)
Flammable gases and liquids (business/distribution)                       C            N           N           N
Forests                                                                   P            P           P           P
Fuel sales                                                                N            N           N           CP
Funeral homes                                                             N            N           N           C
Garage - private (see §                                                  A            A           A           N
159.083)
Garage - repair                                                           N            N           N           CP
Garage - storage                                                          N            N           N           CP
Golf courses and country clubs                                            C            C           C           N
Grading                                                                   ….See §
                                                                          159.147….
Guest house (see §                                                       CP           CP          CP          N
159.103)
Gun clubs                                                                 C            N           N           N
Gun ranges                                                                C            N           N           N
Home occupations (meeting criteria) (see §                               COC          COC        COC         N
159.104)
Home occupations (not meeting criteria) (see §
159.104)
Hotel or motel                                                            N            N           N           C
                                                                          ….See §§
Identification and name plate signs                                       159.180 through
                                                                          159.205….
Incidental repair                                                         A            N           N           N
Information centers                                                       CP           C           C           N
Institutional housing                                                     N            C           C           N
Interim uses (see §                                                      C            N           N           C
159.090)
Junk yard/auto reduction yard                                             C            N           N           N
Kennels, private                                                          N            N           N           N
Kennels, commercial                                                       N            N           N           CP
Land reclamation (see §                                                  C            C           C           C
159.147)
Landscaping and decorative features (see §                               A            A           A           A
159.154)
Lodging room (not more than 1)                                            A            A           A           N
Lodging room (not more than 4)                                            A            N           N           N
Manufacturing - general                                                   N            N           N           N
Manufacturing - limited                                                   N            N           N           N
Marina - including boat rental and the like                               N            N           N           N
Medical uses                                                              N            N           N           C
Mining (see §                                                            C            N           N           N
159.149)
Mobile home - care facility (see §                                       C            N           N           N
159.130)
Mobile home - court/park (see §                                          N            N           N           N
159.131)
Mobile home - temporary farm dwelling (see §                             C            N           N           N
159.130)
                                                                         N            N           N           C
Multiple-family units (see §                                             N            C           C           N
159.100) ---
Nature centers, private or public                                         C            C           C           C
Nurseries - day and school                                                CP           CP          CP          CP
Nursery - commercial (production of trees and shrubs)                     P            C           N           N
Nursery and garden supplies (exterior sales)                              N            N           N           C
Nursery and garden supplies (interior sales)                              N            N           N           CP
Nursing homes or rest home                                                C            C           C           C
Offices, principal building and use                                      N            N           N           COC
Offices, uses--This shall not be construed to apply to any structures but
only to the uses that are proposed to be located therein. All proposed    C            C           C           COC
uses will be applied for and permitted individually, not collectively.
Off-street loading (see §                                                N            N           N           A
159.161)
Off-street parking (see §                                                A            A           A           A
159.160)
Outside entertainment: commercial                                         N            N           N           N
                                                                                                               Accessory
Outside uses accessory to a restaurant or similar retail use              N            N           N           use CUP/
                                                                                                               IUP
Parks - public                                                            CP           CP          CP          CP
Photo, art studio                                                         N            N           N           CP
                                                                          …See §§
Planned unit developments                                                 159.060 through
                                                                          159.068.…
Public enclosed rental storage or garages                                 N            N           N           CP
Race tracks                                                               C            N           N           N
Railroad operations                                                       C            N           N           N
Recreation areas - commercial                                             C            C           N           C
Recreation areas - private or semi-public                                 C            C           C           N
Recreation equipment storage - commercial                                 C            N           N           CP
Recreation equipment storage - private (side and rear yard only) (see §  A            A           A           N
159.087)
Reduction or processing of refuse, trash and garbage                      C            N           N           N
Rental of cars, trailers, campers, trucks and similar                     N            N           N           C
Repair garage                                                             N            N           N           CP
Research                                                                  N            N           N           N
Residential - Multiple-Family (with central sewer) (see §                N            C           C           N
159.100) ---
Residential - Single-Family detached dwellings (see §                    P            P           P           N
159.041)
Residential - Townhouse (see §                                           C            C           C           N
159.101) ---
Residential - 2-Family dwellings (duplex) (see §                         C            C           C           N
159.041) ---
Residential waterfront uses                                               N            A           A           N
Resorts                                                                   C            C           C           N
Retail business                                                           N            N           N           CP
Riding stables                                                            C            C           N           N
Roadside sales stand (seasonally operated)                                CP           CP          CP          CP
Roads - private                                                           ….See §
                                                                          159.159.…
Sales - open lot displays                                                 N            N           N           C
Schools - public and private                                              CP           CP          CP          CP
Service station (see §                                                   N            N           N           CP
159.115)
Shopping center                                                           ….See §
                                                                          159.116….
Signs (see §§
159.180 through                                                           N            N           N           C
159.205) ---
Single-family detached dwellings                                          P            P           P           N
Storage - as a principal use (see §                                      CP           CP          N           CP
159.087)
Storage - hazardous materials                                             ….See §
                                                                          159.151….
Storage, highway construction equipment during construction               C            C           C           N
Storage - normally incidental to the principal use (see §                A            A           N           N
159.087)
Storage - not accessory to a permitted principal use (see §              C            C           N           N
159.087) ---
Storage - open (see §                                                    CP           CP          N           N
159.087)
Structure - historic, scenic, and the like                                CP           CP          CP          CP
Structure - temporary or interim use (see §                              CP           CP          CP          CP
159.090)
Supper club                                                               N            N           N           C
Swimming pool - commercial (see §                                        N            N           N           C
159.112)
Swimming pool - residential (see §                                       CP           CP          CP          N
159.112)
Temporary farm dwelling (see §                                           C            N           N           N
159.130)
Terminal - transportation or motor freight                                N            N           N           N
Theater                                                                   N            N           N           C
Theater - drive-in                                                        C            N           N           N
Townhouse (see §                                                         C            C           C           N
159.101) ---
Trailer/recreation vehicle (see §                                        CP           CP          CP          N
159.132)
Trailer/recreation vehicle parks - seasonal use (see §                   C            N           N           N
159.133 )
Truck and automobile service station (see §                              N            N           N           CP
159.115)
Used auto parts                                                           N            N           N           N
Utility substations                                                       CP           CP          CP          CP
Vegetative cutting                                                        ….See §
                                                                          159.156….
Vehicle sales (enclosed) (see §                                          N            N           N           C
159.113)
Vehicle sales (exterior)                                                                                       C
Veterinary clinic                                                         C            N           N           CP
Warehousing                                                               N            N           N           N
Waterfront uses - industrial, shipping, and the like                      N            N           N           N
Waterfront uses - residential                                             A            A           A           N
Wholesale business                                                        N            N           N           N
Wildlife reserve - private or public                                      P            P           P           N
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 §§ 604, 604.01) (Am. Ord. 7496, passed 10- -2001; Am. Ord.
7501, passed 2-17-2004; Am. Ord. 7539, passed 5-21-2013; Am. Ord. 7538, passed
6-21-2013; Am. Ord. 7541, passed 1-21-2014; Am. Ord. 7548, passed 10-20-2015;
Am. Ord. 2019-33, passed – – 2019; Am. Ord. 2020-07, passed – –2020; Am. Ord.
2024-28, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 159.044 FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. As permitted and regulated under the City Floodplain
Regulations set forth in
Chapter 154.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 605.01)
   (B)   Accessory uses. As permitted and regulated under the City Floodplain
Regulations.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 605.02)
§ 159.045 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Any and all uses subject to the conditions of a
planned unit development permit under planned unit development regulations of
this chapter, §§
159.060 through
159.068.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 606.01)
   (B)   Accessory uses.  As permitted by conditions of a planned unit
development conditional use permit under planned unit development regulations
of this chapter, §§
159.060 through
159.068.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 606.02)
§ 159.046 ST. CROIX OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. As permitted and regulated under the City St. Croix
River District Regulations set forth in
Chapter 155.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 608.01)
   (B)   Accessory uses. As permitted and regulated under the City St. Croix
River District Regulations.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 608.02)
§ 159.047 LAKE AND SHORELAND MANAGEMENT OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. As permitted and regulated under the City Lake and
Shoreland Management Regulations.
   (B)   Accessory uses. As permitted and regulated under the City Lake and
Shoreland Management Regulations.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 609.01)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 159.060 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to provide design flexibility by
allowing substantial variances from the provisions of the city ordinances
relating to district dimensional requirements, subdivision, and development,
including similar regulations, but not parking requirements, off-street
loading, or necessary screening. The variances, if granted, shall be fully
consistent with the general intent and purpose of the city ordinances relating
to land use, subdivision and development, including the provisions of this
chapter. It is not the intent of this section to increase overall density
beyond the limits imposed by the other sections of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 507.01)
§ 159.061 DEFINITIONS.  
   Planned unit developments shall include all developments having 2 or more
principal uses or structures on a single parcel of land; and may include
townhouses, apartment projects involving more than 1 building, residential
subdivision submitted under cluster zoning provisions, multi-use structures
such as an apartment building with retail at ground floor level, commercial
type developments, industrial type developments, mixed residential and
commercial type developments and similar projects.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 507.02)
§ 159.062 EXCLUSIONS.
   Planned unit developments may be excluded from certain requirements of the
city ordinances relating to land use, subdivision, and development, including
the provisions of this chapter, providing:
   (A)   A general development plan as provided by §
159.065 or §
159.066 is approved by the City Council;
   (B)   The City Council shall find that the proposed development is fully
consistent with the purposes of the city ordinances relating to land use,
subdivision, and development, including the provisions of this chapter and in
conformity to the Comprehensive Plan;
   (C)   Adequate performance bonds or other security shall be given to the
city to secure completion of the development as provided by the general
development plan by the City Council; and
   (D)   Planned unit development permit is granted.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 507.03)
§ 159.063 PRELIMINARY REVIEW.
   (A)   Application for preliminary review. Before applying for a planned unit
development permit, the developer shall first apply for preliminary review of
the proposed development. The application shall be accompanied by payment of a
preliminary review fee in an amount established by ordinance of the City
Council. The application shall be filed with the City Clerk or the Zoning
Administrator. The application shall include the following information relating
to the property, developer, and the proposed development, and may include such
further information as the developer deems appropriate to preliminary review of
the proposed planned unit development.
   (B)   Submission of standards. Reports shall be spiral or 3-ring loose-leaf
bound and submitted on 8-1/2-inch by 11-inch size paper, vertical format. The
scale of maps shall be at least 1 inch to 200 feet. Maps for sites less than 50
acres shall be at least 1 inch to 100 feet.
   (C)   Site information. A sketch plan shall be submitted showing the
location of the site, size of the site, utilization of land adjacent to the
site, existing buildings on the site, significant topographical and physical
features of the site, proposed site, proposed general street layout and
proposed general lot layout.
   (D)   Existing buildings and adjacent uses. If the developer contemplates
the retention of existing buildings or extension of facilities or utilities
serving adjacent uses, these facts shall be documented.
   (E)   Developer information. The following information shall be submitted.
      (1)   Ownership.  
         (a)   The developer shall have a property interest in the site which
shall consist of a fee simple title or an option to acquire fee simple title,
or a leasehold interest in excess of 30 years, or a substantial interest in a
joint venture agreement, real estate investment trust or other real estate
syndication which has or can obtain a fee simple title, or a marketable title
subject to certain restraint which will not substantially restrict its
development within a reasonable time. All mortgages including purchase money
mortgages, all easements restricting land use, all liens and all judgments
which may affect the site shall be documented.
         (b)   The applicant shall supply proof of existing ownership
consisting of an abstract of title, certified currently, a current certificate
of title, or an attorney's title opinion based thereon, together with any
unrecorded documents whereby the applicant acquired a legal or equitable
property interest.
      (2)   Development experience.  The developer shall submit information of
personal experience in real estate development to include all corporations now
or formerly in existence in which the developer exercised substantial control.
If the developer has not had any previous experience in real estate
development, that developer shall submit such evidence as is necessary to
demonstrate that developer's competence to undertake the proposed development.
      (3)   Financial capability. The developer shall submit certified evidence
of present financial position to include existing or proposed credit sources
for land acquisition, construction, and permanent financing. No developer shall
be approved unless it can be shown that the developer possesses or has the
ability to acquire sufficient funds for the development of the site.
      (4)   Neighboring landowners.  The applicant shall submit a licensed
abstractor's certificate showing the names and addresses of the record owners
of all property located within a minimum of 500 feet of all the contiguous
property in which the applicant has legal or equitable property interest.
   (F)   Planning Commission action. Within 45 days after the first regular
meeting after the application for a preliminary review has been submitted to
the City Clerk or Zoning Administrator, the Planning Commission shall give
preliminary review approval to the proposed plan, reject the plan, or request
specific additional information. The Planning Commission shall also establish
the process necessary for completion of a general development plan and shall
notify the applicant of which alternative process (§
159.065 or §
159.066) or parts of the development plan process that will be applicable to
that developer's project. As soon as is reasonably practical, the City Clerk or
Zoning Administrator shall inform the applicant of the action taken by the
Planning Commission, in writing, accompanied by a copy of the resolution or
minutes of the Planning Commission stating its reasons therefor. If additional
information is requested, the Planning Commission shall accept or reject the
preliminary review within 30 days of the request. If the preliminary review is
accepted, the developer may proceed to apply for a permit for a planned unit
development.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 507.04)
§ 159.064 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF PUD PERMITS.
   (A)   Fee. The fee for a planned unit development (PUD) general development
plan review shall be established by ordinance of the City Council.
   (B)   Preliminary review approval. The applicant shall have secured
preliminary review approval by the Planning Commission within the previous
year.
   (C)   Information required. The applicant shall file with the City Clerk or
Zoning Administrator the information required in §
159.065 or §
159.066, whichever is applicable.
   (D)   Referrals. Upon receipt of all required information, the City Clerk or
Zoning Administrator shall refer the same to the Planning Commission and shall
refer the applicable portions to the Fire Department, City Engineer, and
Building Official, Washington County Soil and Water Conservation Service,
Washington County Planning Commission, and such other public bodies, agencies,
and officials as may be interested or affected. Reports on those aspects of the
proposed plan which concern the Department or body must be filed with the City
Clerk or Zoning Administrator within 30 days of the referral thereof.
   (E)   Action by Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall
thereafter recommend approval of the general development plans as submitted,
approval of the application subject to specified modifications or conditions,
or recommend denial of the application, within the time prescribed by law for
the permit or as assigned by the Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   Within the period of time the matter is under consideration by the
Planning Commission, the applicant shall be allowed to make such amendments to
that developer's application, including any part of the general development
plan or any applicable components thereof, as the Planning Commission shall
request or permit.
      (2)   The affirmative vote of 2/3 of the members of the Planning
Commission shall be required for a recommendation of approval of any planned
unit development general development plans.
   (F)   Public hearing. Within the period of time the matter is under
consideration, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing concerning
the particular planned unit development application. At least 10 days'
published notice of the meeting shall be given and notice shall be given by
certified mail to all property owners within 500 feet of the property described
in the application. Notice shall contain a legal description of the property
described in the application.
   (G)   Action by the City Council.  The planned unit development general
development plans may be placed on the agenda of the City Council at its next
regular meeting following approval of the planned unit development general
development plans by the Planning Commission. The City Council may take action
on these plans within 60 days after the meeting. If it shall determine by
resolution that the proposed use will not be detrimental to the health, safety,
morals, or general welfare of the community and that the use is fully
consistent with the purposes of the city ordinances relating to land use,
subdivision and development, including the provisions of this chapter, and in
conformity to the Comprehensive Plan, the City Council may grant such approval.
If it approves the plans, the City Council may impose conditions, including
time limits it considers necessary. Periodic review of the project and the
final permit may be required; the cost of periodic review shall be paid by the
permittee of each project. Approval shall be granted for a particular use and
development, and not for a particular applicant.
   (H)   Method of withdrawing an application for a permit. Any application for
a planned unit development permit may be withdrawn by the applicant at any time
prior to filing the required plat thereof in accordance with the Subdivision
Regulations, or if no platting is required in connection with the planned unit
development application, then at any time prior to physical implementation of
the approved permit, such as the commencement of construction on the permit
site.
   (I)   Method of amending a planned unit development permit. Any desired
change involving structural alteration, enlargement, or intensification of the
use not specifically allowed by a particular planned unit development permit,
or any request for a variance from the specific terms of a previously passed
planned unit development permit, shall require that an application be filed for
an amended permit and all procedures shall apply as if a new permit was applied
for.
   (J)   Method of cancellation of a planned unit development permit.  Any
existing approved planned unit development permit shall be deemed to be
cancelled if the owner of the land involved in the permit applies for and
receives a rezoning with respect to the property prior to the time that there
is any physical implementation of the matters covered by the previously
approved planned unit development permit. In addition, an existing planned unit
development permit shall be deemed to be automatically cancelled in the event
that a final plat, if the same is required in connection with the permit, is
not filed as required by and in accordance with the terms of the City
Subdivision Regulations within 120 days following final approval of the planned
unit development permit by the City Council. In all other situations, an
existing planned unit development permit shall be cancelled and revoked, short
of expiring according to its own terms, only upon the event the community
acting in accordance with law and due process, taking some rezoning action
which supersedes the planned unit development permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 507.05)
§ 159.065 REQUIREMENTS OF GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN FOR LARGE OR COMPLEX AREAS.
   (A)   Submission standards. Reports shall be spiral or 3-ring loose-leaf
bound, submitted on 8-1/2 inch by 11-inch vertical format paper. The scale of
maps shall be at least 1 inch to 200 feet. Maps for sites less than 50 acres
shall be at least 1 inch to 100 feet. The number of maps and reports to be
submitted shall be specified by the Planning Commission, but shall not exceed
25. All maps shall be reduced and included in the applicable reports. One
transparent Mylar copy of the final general development plans, should they be
approved, shall be filed with the Planning Commission within 60 days of the
approval.
   (B)   Environmental impact.  An environmental impact study may be required
by state, regional, or federal agencies or by the City Planning Commission.
   (C)   Regional location component map.  A map shall be submitted showing the
site and its interrelationship with the city.
      (1)   The map shall include the location and distance in road miles to
the following facilities servicing the site:
         (a)   Elementary school(s);
         (b)   Secondary school(s);
         (c)   Fire company;
         (d)   Police station;
         (e)   Arterial and limited-access highways;
         (f)   Recreational areas;
         (g)   Shopping areas;
         (h)   Industrial areas;
         (i)   Public transportation routes, including non-vehicle trails and
major transportation depots; and
         (j)   Churches and public buildings.
      (2)   The names of all property owners within 500 feet of the development
site shall be shown on the map attached thereto.
   (D)   Land evaluation component.  The land evaluation component shall
consist of a map or maps and accompanying report setting forth the natural
limitations on land development including slopes, drainage systems, vegetation,
soil types, soil quality, and how these limitations are incorporated in the
city regulations. The land evaluation component shall also contain a
descriptive statement of objectives, principles, and standards used for its
formulation.
   (E)   Land use component.  The land use component shall consist of a map or
maps and report setting forth the distribution, location, and extent of the
acres of land devoted to each category of land use proposed as part of the
general plan of development. The uses may include single-family residential,
mixed types of residential, neighborhood retail shopping facilities, office
facilities, service facilities, education, religious, recreation, public and
semi-public facilities, or other categories of public or private uses of land.
The land use component shall also contain a descriptive statement of
objectives, principles, and standards used in its formulation.
   (F)   Circulation component.  The circulation component shall consist of a
map or maps and report setting forth the general location, extent, and nature
of all transportation facilities proposed as part of the general plan of
development, all proposed points of interconnecting access to existing
transportation facilities, and the present use and design capacities of
existing transportation facilities.
      (1)   Proposed transportation facilities information shall include:
         (a)   Location of paths or bikeways;
         (b)   Location of major and local thoroughfares;
         (c)   Location and definition of trash removal system;
         (d)   Location and definition of industrial and commercial delivery
areas and systems;
         (e)   Identification by function of principal arterials, intermediate
arterials, minor arterials, collector streets and local streets; and
         (f)   Location and function of 1-way street systems, divided roads,
left-turn lanes, and such other matters as may be related to the provision for
the circulation of traffic within the planned area.
      (2)   The following information pertaining to parking areas shall be
shown:
         (a)   Paved areas for all parking compounds;
         (b)   Landscaped areas contained within the parking areas; and
         (c)   Service estimates which show the number of residential units or
gross flow area and the number of parking spaces for each area.
      (3)   The circulation component shall also contain a descriptive
statement of objectives, principles, and standards used for its formulation.
   (G)   Population component. The population component shall contain a report
of the standards of population density and building intensity for the various
proposed land uses, including estimates of future population, age and economic
characteristics and change within the planned city, correlated with supporting
data; shall include but not be limited to dwelling (housing) units per acre for
the various residential uses; and square footage by type for the various
nonresidential facilities, including sufficient data to calculate traffic
generation, parking requirements, water consumption, sewage needs, and the
necessary capacity of related utilities and services traditionally rendered by
public or private organizations for a population of such size as is projected
for the completed planned development. This report shall contain an analysis
indicating the projected marketability of the development in respect to
effective demand specifically relating the site to the city. Any public and/or
subsidized housing shall be identified to include an explanation of the
assistance program and the number of units affected. The population component
shall also contain a descriptive statement of objectives, principles, and
standards used for its formulation.
   (H)   Services and service facilities component. The services and facilities
component shall contain a map or maps setting forth the general location and
extent of any and all existing and proposed systems for sewage, domestic water
supply and distribution, refuse disposal, drainage, local utilities and right-
of-way easements, facilities and appurtenances necessary therefor. The services
and facilities component shall also contain a descriptive statement setting
forth objectives, principles, and standards used for its formulation, as well
as a detailed statement describing the proposed ownership, method of operation
and maintenance of each such service and facility.
   (I)   Open space and city facilities component.
      (1)   The open space and community facilities component map and report
shall show:
         (a)   All land dedicated or deed restricted for public or common use
showing major trails, acreage, and proposed use;
         (b)   Location of all play fields, tot-lots, tennis and handball
courts, or other recreational facility indicating type and general area of
concentrated use;
         (c)   Location of all buildings intended for community, school,
religious, or institutional use indicating approximate building coverage in
square feet; and
         (d)   Location of all existing buildings, historical areas, or scenic
areas to be preserved.
      (2)   The report shall contain an explanation of how the common open
space shall be maintained including an estimate of additional charges or costs
to be paid by each housing unit. The method by which citizen participation is
provided in the maintenance of these facilities shall be specified. All
improvements to be placed as fixtures upon the land shall be described. A
statement of conformance or lack thereof to the requirements of design ratios
and common open space shall be included. The open space and city facilities
component shall also contain a descriptive statement of objectives, principles,
and standards used for its formulation.
   (J)   Land coverage and drainage component.  A land coverage and drainage
component map or maps shall include the location and square feet of all areas
of the site to be covered by paving or building roofs, and the proportion of
each as related to the total site, and the relation to each watershed existing
on an off-site location prior to proposed development.
      (1)   All areas of the site in which the natural vegetative cover will be
altered shall be identified and the proportion by type of change shall be
identified with the amount of area in acres and the proportion of each as
related to the total site shall be indicated on the map legend.
      (2)   All drainage areas which occupy 5% or more of the site shall be
identified with the amount in acres and the proportion of each as related to
the total site shall be indicated on the map legend.
      (3)   All natural drainage swales, all streams, and their contributing
watershed shall be identified with the maximum area shown to be covered by
water resulting from a rainfall of 15- and 100-year storms.
      (4)   All improvements including retention basins, ponds, culverts, dams,
and stormwater pipes in excess of 6 inches shall be located by type.
      (5)   The report shall include the probable impact resulting from the
flow of stormwater, including:
         (a)   The projected maximum volumes at the collecting point for each
drainage basin shall be calculated for 15- and 100-year storms;
         (b)   The impact of stormwater for 15- and 100-year storms upon
existing service facilities shall be evaluated in relation to existing
stormwater capacities; and
         (c)   The impact of stormwater for 15- and 100-year storms upon off-
site locations shall be described.
      (6)   The report shall contain certified copies of all necessary easement
deeds required for the drainage of stormwater onto off-site locations.
      (7)   This report shall contain an analysis of all improvements including
off-site conditions to facilitate the flow of stormwater which are included in
the land coverage and drainage map. Construction processes shall be specified
for systems. The component shall also contain a descriptive statement of
objectives, principles, and standards used for its formulation.
   (K)   Building quality component.  A building quality component shall be
submitted consisting of a map or maps, schematic drawings and report showing
locations of all buildings with floor elevations, typical building types to
illustrate architectural intent and character and the name, address, and
certification of the architect approving the exhibit.
   (L)   Legal submissions component.  A legal submissions component shall be
submitted consisting of the following:
      (1)   The articles of incorporation and bylaws for any homeowners'
association, condominium association, or other form of nonprofit corporation to
maintain or advise in the operation of any common space;
      (2)   Any agreement by which an organization is to serve in the capacity
of a trustee;
      (3)   Typical deed or lease agreement specifying all rights and
obligations, including required fees to be paid to maintain common open space;
      (4)   A signed statement establishing the rights of the municipality to
substitute for the organization to maintain common open space and to collect
the necessary funds;
      (5)   Copies of all existing or proposed easements and covenants to
permit other persons to utilize portions of land or to maintain facilities and/
or utility service lines;
      (6)   Copies of all existing or proposed agreements by which private
roads shall be maintained, refuse collected, snow plowed, and other
supplementary services be provided; and
      (7)   Copies of all dedications, restrictions and covenants imposed upon
the land, including reservations in favor of any homeowners' association.
   (M)   Construction order component.  A construction order component shall
contain a map or maps setting forth the proposed chronological order of
construction relating each proposed use and structure to the construction of
the various services facilities as may be required herein. The component shall
include estimated completion dates and shall specify the proposed order of
request for utility release or other authority to occupy complete structures so
as to provide a basis for determining the adequacy of the related services and
facilities which would not require a variance under existing zoning. The
component shall also contain a descriptive statement of the objectives,
principles, and standards used for its formulation.
   (N)   Subdivision design component. A subdivision design component shall
contain a descriptive statement of principles governing the proposed
subdivision of land, including lot design for various proposed land uses. This
component shall be in sufficient detail so that it can serve as the basis for
determining the conformity of any site plan to the general plan of development.
   (O)   Financial impact component. A financial impact component shall be
submitted consisting of a report demonstrating the additional taxes generated
by the planned unit development for the city and the school district, the
additional financial burden generated by the planned unit development on the
school system, Fire Department, Sheriff's Department, road maintenance, and
other increased financial burden on the city. The component shall also contain
a descriptive statement of objectives, principles, and standards used for its
formulation.
   (P)   Marketing component. A marketing component shall be submitted which
shall consist of a report demonstrating the economic feasibility of the planned
unit development, including a marketing survey of proposed residential and
apartment units, the impact on existing property values, the impact of any
other proposed real estate developments in the surrounding area, the amount of
federal, state, and local subsidy or loan programs utilized by the planned unit
development, and the impact of the governmental subsidy or loan programs being
curtailed or eliminated.
   (Q)   Air pollution component.  The air pollution component shall consist of
a map and report setting forth the location of all air pollution sources
including areas of heavy traffic, parking lots, incinerators, and smokestacks.
The report shall include the amount of pollution expected from each source and
the abatement procedures to be used to control the air pollution. The component
shall also contain a descriptive statement setting forth objectives,
principles, and standards used for its formulation.
   (R)   Air conditioning water component. The air conditioning water component
shall consist of a report setting forth the source and discharge of any water
used for air conditioning.
   (S)   Social environment component. The social environment component shall
consist of a map and report setting forth those design features which will
provide privacy, social interaction, and security. The component shall also
contain a descriptive statement setting forth the objectives, principles, and
standards used for its formulation.
   (T)   Energy component. The energy component shall consist of a report
setting forth the total amount of energy to be used by the planned unit
development, the relative amount provided from each source, the relative amount
utilized by each requirement and those design features which will promote
energy conservation. The component shall also contain a descriptive statement
setting forth the objectives, principles, and standards used for its
formulation.
   (U)   Additional components. The general plan of development may include as
additional components: A recreation component, a public building component
providing for consideration for administrative and public safety quarters, and
such other components indicated by the nature of the particular proposed
development.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 507.06)
§ 159.066 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN FOR SMALL AREAS.
   (A)   Waiver of some requirements. If a proposed development is less than 50
acres and is not complex, the Planning Commission may, in its discretion, waive
some parts of the components required in §
159.065, provided no less than the following information is submitted:
      (1)   Complete details of the proposed site development, including
location of buildings, driveways, parking spaces, dimensions of the lot, lot
area, and yard dimensions;
      (2)   Complete landscaping plans including species and size of trees and
shrubs proposed;
      (3)   Complete plans for proposed sidewalks to service parking,
recreation, and service areas within the proposed development;
      (4)   Projected population;
      (5)   Complete plans for sewer, water, gas, phone, and electrical
systems, and capacity of existing systems and probably impact on them;
      (6)   Complete plans for proposed stormwater drainage systems sufficient
to drain and dispose of all surface water accumulations within the area;
      (7)   Preliminary architectural plans showing the floor plan and
elevations of the proposed buildings;
      (8)   Complete plans and specifications for exterior wall finishes
proposed for all principal and accessory buildings;
      (9)   Complete data as to dwelling unit sizes and ratios of dwelling
units to total lot space;
      (10)   A projected development schedule to include the number of housing
and business or industrial units to be constructed and the duration of the
building time. These estimates shall be in accordance with an existing
development estimate based upon projected demand and service capabilities and
accepted by the reviewing agency.
      (11)   Complete transportation plan and capacity of existing systems and
probable impact on them.
   (B)   Soil test results. Complete results of soil testing as to type and
quality.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 507.07)
§ 159.067 PERMITS GENERALLY; PLATS.
   (A)   Records.  The City Clerk shall maintain a record of all permits issued
including information on the use, locations, conditions imposed, time limits,
review dates, and such other information as may be appropriate. Planned unit
development permits granted shall be clearly noted on the city zoning map and
shall be recorded with the Washington County Recorder or Registrar of Titles.
   (B)   Certification of plans required. Any plan submitted shall be certified
as follows:
      (1)   Mechanical systems, electrical systems and all structural systems
shall be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer; and
      (2)   All building and site plans shall be designed and certified by a
registered architect or registered engineer. The site plans may be prepared by
a professional site planner, but a registered architect or engineer must
certify that the architect or engineer has reviewed the site and designed the
proposed buildings in accordance with the site plans, the terrain and
neighboring conditions, and in accordance with the Building Code.
   (C)   Time limits. No application which was subsequently denied shall be
resubmitted for a period of 6 months from the date of the order of denial. If a
time limit or periodic review is included as a condition by which a permit is
granted, the permit shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission at the
specified time, at a public hearing, with notice of the hearing published at
least 10 days prior to the review. It shall be the responsibility of the City
Clerk or Zoning Administrator to schedule the public hearings and the permittee
shall be required to pay for the review.
   (D)   Bonding to assure conformance to general plan of development and
agreements. To assure that any improvements specified as part of the general
plan of development (or necessary as a prerequisite to a utility release) are
completed under the terms of the plan or each phase as outlined in the
construction order component or in any agreements executed according to the
provisions of this chapter, the applicant shall post a cash bond, letter of
credit, or other adequate security guaranteeing the faithful performance of
work or agreements, and the payment of any costs in an amount set by the City
Council not to exceed 120% of the expected cost of improvements including
engineering and administration. Furthermore, prior to certification of the site
plans required by this chapter, the City Council shall also determine the
amount of cash bond, letter of credit, or other adequate security as required
by this chapter. The cash bond, letter of credit, or other adequate security
shall cover each separate facility, landscaping or utility as required as part
of each phase of development, as the case may be; provided, however, that part
of the cash bond, letter of credit, or other security may be released when any
specific part of each phase is completed.
   (E)   Effect of minimum area requirements on conveyed lots or building
sites. In the event any real property in the approved permit is conveyed in
total or in part, the buyers thereof shall be bound by the provisions of the
planned unit development permit and the general development plan constituting a
part thereof; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed to
create nonconforming lots, building sites, buildings, or uses by virtue of any
such conveyance of a lot, building site or part of the development created
pursuant to and in conformance with the planned unit development permit.
Subsequent structural additions or alterations may be made provided the
provisions of the planned unit development permit, this chapter, and other
applicable ordinances are adhered to.
   (F)   Final plat.  Unless the requirement for a final plat be waived, all
applications for a planned unit development permit shall be required to file
with the Washington County Recorder of Deeds and Registrar of Titles a plat of
the planned unit development complying with all of the requirements of the
Subdivision Ordinance, except to the extent that the City Council may have
given specific permission to the effect that specific portions of the
Subdivision Ordinance need not be complied with. Such required plats shall
contain on their face a cross-reference to the final approved planned unit
development permit (and general plan of development made a part thereof) on
file and shall be filed within 120 days after the date of the action giving
final approval to the planned unit development permit.
   (G)   Private streets. Whenever it does not contradict the provisions of the
city ordinance relating to land use, subdivision and development, including the
provisions of this chapter as it relates to an adopted transportation plan or
the protection of opportunities for reasonable development of surrounding land
adjacent to a development proposed in a planned unit development application,
streets which are intended to be kept continuously closed to public travel or
are at all times posted as private streets, may with the permission of the City
Council be retained as private streets and so reflected upon the final plat
made a part of the planned unit development permit; provided an agreement is
entered into between the owner of the private streets and the city assuring
that the construction, operation, and maintenance of the streets will be
accomplished in accordance with approved standards.
   (H)   Staged developments. It is recognized that certain planned unit
development permits may involve construction over a long period of time. If it
is proposed to develop a project during a period which will exceed 2 years, the
applicant may request permission to submit detailed information respecting only
the first stage or stages of the project. If permission pursuant to such a
request is granted, a separate public hearing shall nevertheless be required,
respecting each successive stage of the project as the same is reached, and
detailed plans shall be submitted in accordance with the approved construction
order component forming a part of the planned unit development permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 507.08)
§ 159.068 CITY PERMIT FOR SITE PLANS AND BUILDING PLANS.
   (A)   Prior to specific building permits being issued, the applicant shall
file 5 complete and detailed site plans for which building requirements will be
required with the Zoning Administrator. Each such site plan shall include
refinements of all pertinent data required as a part of the general development
plan constituting a part of the planned unit development application, and all
pertinent data required by this chapter and the State Building Code, including
but not limited to:
      (1)   Site plan drawn to scale showing parcel and building dimensions;
      (2)   Location of all buildings and their square footage;
      (3)   Curb cuts, driveways, access roads, parking spaces, off-street
loading areas and sidewalks;
      (4)   Finished grading and drainage plan sufficient to drain and dispose
of all surface water accumulated in the area;
      (5)   Sanitary sewer plan with estimated daily flow rates;
      (6)   Landscaping and screening plans;
      (7)   Soil type and soil limitations for the intended use. If severe soil
limitations for the intended use are noted, a plan or statement indicating the
soil conservation practice or practices to be used to overcome the limitation
shall be made prior to the permit application;
      (8)   Plans and specifications for distribution and service lines for
public water supply to each lot, if any, or building site, wells or other
sources of supply, reservoir pumping station; and if a private facility, a
proposed agreement to assure continued operation and maintenance in accordance
with applicable state law and city ordinances;
      (9)   Plans and specifications for sewage and all liquid or solid waste
storage and disposal facilities, including main and secondary collection lines
and stub-offs from the secondary collection lines to the property line of each
potential lot, if any, or building site and pumping station;
      (10)   Type, placement, and number of street names and signs and traffic
safety signs;
      (11)   Type, placement, and number of street, highway, way and alley
lighting devices;
      (12)   Barricades and other safety devices;
      (13)   Location and type of construction or permanent fencing along any
lot or site abutting a river, creek, open storm drain, lake or other body of
water or channel, and its appurtenant works; and
      (14)   Such other information as requested by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by development plans of the
proposed use showing such information as may be necessary or desirable,
including but not limited to those listed below. These plans shall contain
adequate information upon which the Planning Advisory Commission can determine
the proposed development will meet all development standards if the project
proceeds in accordance with such plans.
      (1)   Site plan drawn to scale showing parcel and building dimensions;
      (2)   Location of all buildings and their square footage;
      (3)   Curb cuts, driveways, access roads, parking spaces, off-street
loading areas and sidewalks;
      (4)   Finished grading and drainage plan sufficient to drain and dispose
of all surface water accumulated within the area;
      (5)   Type of business or activity and proposed number of employees;
      (6)   Proposed floor plan and elevations of any building with use
indicated;
      (7)   Sanitary sewer and water plan with estimated daily flow rates;
      (8)   Soil type and soil limitations for the intended use. If severe soil
limitations for the intended use are noted, a plan or statement indicating the
soil conservation practice or practices to be used to overcome the limitation
shall be made part of the permit application;
      (9)   A location map showing the general location of the proposed use
within the city;
      (10)   A map showing all principal land use within 200 feet of the parcel
for which the application is being made; and
      (11)   Any additional data requested by the Planning Commission or Zoning
Administrator.
   (C)   The applicant shall supply proof of ownership of the property for
which the planned unit development permit is requested consisting of an
abstract of title, certified currently, a current certificate of title, or an
attorney's title opinion based thereon, together with any unrecorded documents
whereby the petitioners acquired a legal or equitable ownership interest.
   (D)   The application form shall be accompanied by an accurate list showing
the names and mailing addresses of the record owners of all property located
within a minimum of 500 feet of all the contiguous property, verified as to
accuracy by the planned unit development permit applicant.
   (E)   Following issuance of the certificate of compliance for the site
plans, building permits may be approved for the proposed structures within the
approved planned unit development permit area, provided that:
      (1)   The same are in conformance with the planned unit development
permit and with the approved planned unit development site plans;
      (2)   The necessary bonds have been acquired as provided in this section
and approved in writing by the City Attorney;
      (3)   The proposed improvement or building construction is in accordance
with the approved order of construction set forth in the construction order
component or other specific terms of the planned unit development permit as may
be in any way involved respecting a staged development;
      (4)   Any final plat as may be required by the terms of this chapter has
been filed with the appropriate governmental recording agency; and
      (5)   The proposed structure meets the requirements of applicable codes.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 507.09)
STRUCTURES; DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 159.080 MINIMUM STANDARDS; PURPOSE.
   All uses, buildings, and structures permitted pursuant to this chapter shall
conform to the performance and design standards set forth in this subchapter
and §§
159.100 through
159.104,
159.110 through
159.116,
159.130 through
159.134,
159.145 through
159.166, and
159.180 through
159.205; these standards are determined to be the minimum standards necessary
to comply with the intent and purposes of this code as set forth in this
section.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 700.01)
§ 159.081 EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL, RETAIL, OFFICE,
INDUSTRIAL, WAREHOUSE, AND SIMILAR BUILDINGS IN NONRESIDENTIAL ZONING
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.  
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to establish minimum standards for
exterior architecture of commercial, office, industrial, and warehouse
buildings to ensure high quality of development, redevelopment and
compatibility and evolving architectural or planning themes that contribute to
a city image of quality, visual aesthetics, permanence, and stability which are
in the best interest of the citizens of the city. These standards are intended
to prevent use of materials that are unsightly, rapidly deteriorate, contribute
to depreciation of area property values, or cause urban blight.
      (2)   These standards are further intended to ensure coordinated design
of building exteriors, additions, and accessory structure exteriors in order to
prevent visual disharmony; minimize adverse impacts on adjacent properties from
buildings which are or may become unsightly; and buildings that detract from
the character and appearance of the area. It is not the intent of this section
to unduly restrict design freedom when reviewing and approving project
architecture in relationship to the proposed land use, site characteristics,
and interior building layout.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 701.01)
   (B)   General requirements. This section shall apply to all commercial,
office, and industrial buildings, additions, exterior remodeling, and accessory
structures.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 701.02)
   (C)   Minimum submission requirements. The applicant shall submit the
following:
      (1)   Elevations and dimensions of all sides of existing and proposed
buildings, including roof mechanical equipment, vents, chimneys, or other
projecting items above the roof line;
      (2)   Elevations and dimensions of all existing or proposed solid waste
and recycling containment areas;
      (3)   Detailed exterior descriptions, including type and color of all
exterior building materials, exterior lighting, mechanical screening material,
fencing, metal flashing, and the like;
      (4)   In order to aid in evaluating the exterior design, the applicant
shall submit a schematic floor plan;
      (5)   Heating, air conditioning and ventilating and electrical equipment
heights, locations, and screening materials;
      (6)   Colored renderings, exterior building, and finish materials samples
and color palettes;
      (7)   Schematic attached sign package that meets the sign ordinance as
set forth in §§
159.180 through
159.205; and
      (8)   Other information as required.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 701.03)
   (D)   Exterior design standards. Exterior surface materials of buildings
shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (D)(1), materials shall be divided
into Group 1 and Group 2 as follows:
Group 1
Group 1
(a) Brick
(b) Natural stone
(c) Glass
(d) Copper panels
(e) Other comparable or superior materials
Group 2
(a) Specialty concrete block such as textured, burnished block, or rock-faced
    block
(b) Architecturally pre-cast textured concrete panels
(c) Masonry stucco
(d) Exterior finish installation system (EFIS)
(e) Opaque nonmetal panels
(f) Wood
(g) Other comparable or superior materials
 
      (2)   Commercial buildings shall have materials comprising their exterior
as follows:
         (a)   Group 1 materials must be used on a minimum of 50% of the
building front exterior elevation.
         (b)   Group 2 materials may be used on the remaining exterior but may
not exceed 50% of the building front.
      (3)   Garage doors, window trim, flashing accent items, and the like
shall not constitute required materials that make up the exterior of a
building.
      (4)   Garage doors shall not face the building front exterior elevation.
      (5)   Gasoline canopies and other accessory structures shall be
constructed of the same materials and colors as the adjacent primary structure.
      (6)   Gasoline canopies shall not exceed 26 feet in height.
      (7)   Pre-fabricated steel structures shall not be allowed.
      (8)   Parking lots shall be required to have concrete curbs.
      (9)   As viewed from ground levels at all sides of the building, all
mechanical equipment located on the roof or around the perimeter of a structure
shall be screened by a raised parapet or with comparable and compatible
exterior building materials.
         (a)   A raised parapet or other architectural feature that is an
integral part(s) of the building may be required as screening for rooftop
mechanical equipment or to soften rooftop views.
         (b)   Screening for rooftop mechanical equipment shall incorporate
similar architectural features of the building and/or be constructed of
materials and colors that are compatible with other elements of the building.
         (c)   Metal cabinets used to enclose and protect rooftop mechanical
equipment shall not substitute as screening.
      (10)   Exposed roof materials shall be similar to or an architectural
equivalent of a 300-pound or better asphalt or fiberglass shingle, wooden
shingle, standing seam metal roof or better.
      (11)   Brick or stone exteriors shall not be painted during the life of
the exterior materials.
      (12)   Equipment used for mechanical, processing, bulk storage tanks, or
equipment used for suppressing noise, odors, and the like that protrudes from a
side of a building or is located on the ground adjacent to a building shall be
screened from public view as much as practical with materials matching the
design of the building. Where miscellaneous exterior equipment cannot be fully
screened with matching building materials, landscaping may be used as
additional screening.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 §§ 701.04, 701.05) (Ord. 7495, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 159.082 PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   There shall be no more than 1 residential dwelling unit on any 1
parcel of land as described in §
159.041, providing housing for 1 family with 1 kitchen.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 702.01)
   (B)   Certain dwelling units are prohibited. No cellar, garage, recreational
vehicle, or basement with unfinished exterior structure above or accessory
building shall be used at any time as a dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 702.02)
   (C)   All principal buildings hereafter erected on unplatted land shall be
so placed as to avoid obstruction of future street or utility extensions and
shall be so placed as to permit reasonably anticipated future subdivisions and
land use.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 702.03)
   (D)   All principal buildings shall meet or exceed the minimum standard of
the Minnesota State Building Code, the Minnesota Fire Code, the Minnesota
Department of Health, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and the Washington
County On-Site Sewage Treatment Ordinance.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 702.04)
   (E)   The keeping of animals except for domesticated pets inside of the
dwelling unit shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 702.05)
   (F)   All existing principal buildings in residential districts with
nonwinterized construction or inadequate nonconforming year-round on-site
sewage treatment systems as described in the Washington County Development Code
Administrative Chapter 1 and Chapter 4, Individual Sewage Treatment System
Code, shall be considered a seasonal principal building. No building permit
shall be issued for the improvement of a seasonal principal building to a
continuous year-round (365 days) habitable dwelling unit unless the existing
building conforms or the building after such improvement (including septic
systems) will conform to all the requirements of the Washington County
Development Code and any applicable state requirements.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 702.06)
   (G)   Any alterations, modifications, or enlargements of an existing
seasonal principal building for the purpose of continuing the seasonal use
shall require a conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 702.07)
§ 159.083 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Types of accessory buildings. Storage or tool sheds; detached
residential garages; detached rural storage buildings; detached domesticated
farm animal buildings; agricultural farm buildings. The accessory buildings are
defined as follows.
      (1)   Storage or tool sheds. A 1-story accessory building of less than
200 square feet gross area with a maximum roof height of 12 feet.
      (2)   Detached residential garage. A 1-story accessory building used or
intended for the storage of motor driven passenger vehicles, which is
freestanding or attached to the principal structure by breezeway or walkway,
with a maximum gross area of 1,014 square feet in the R-1 and R-3 Zoning
Districts.
      (3)   Detached rural storage building. A 1-story accessory building used
or intended for the storage of hobby tools, garden equipment, workshop
equipment, and the like. The gross area of the building shall not exceed 2,500
square feet in gross area on a parcel of between 5.01 acres and 20 acres and
not more than 1,000 square feet in gross area on a parcel of less than 5.0
acres.
(Am. Ord. 7488, passed 5-16-2000)
      (4)   Detached domesticated farm animal building. A 1-story accessory
building used or intended for the shelter of domestic farm animals and/or
related feed or other farm animal supportive materials. The building shall
require a Minnesota Pollution Control Agency feedlot permit and a conditional
use permit, and shall not exceed 1,500 square feet in gross area on a parcel of
between 10 and 20 acres and not more than 1,000 square feet in gross area on a
parcel of less than 10 acres.
      (5)   Agricultural farm building. An accessory building used or intended
for use on an active commercial food producing farm operation of more than 20
acres. A Minnesota Pollution Control Agency permit may be required.
      (6)   Satellite dish antennas. Any dish antenna having a diameter in
excess of 30 inches shall require a building permit and shall be located where
practical in the rear yard of the property and shall conform to the setback
provisions of § 159.041(A) and (D). All dish antennas shall be securely
anchored to the ground and shall be reasonably screened by landscaping or
fencing. No antenna shall be placed so as to exceed a height greater than the
heights of the principal structure located upon the property as measured from
the highest ground elevation point at any corner of the structure to the peak
or highest point of the principal structure.
      (7)   Gazebo. A small roofed structure that is open or has latticework or
screened, used for outdoor entertaining.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 703.01) (Am. Ord. 7443, passed 11-19-1985)
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses.
Structure Agricultural R-1 District R-3 District Permit Required For Further
          A-1 District                                           Details See:
                                        R-        R-                     For
Structure                  Agricultural 1         3         Permit       Further
                           A-1 District District  District  Required     Details
                                                                         See:
(1) Storage, boat, gazebo  P            P         P         Building     §
or tool shed uses:                                          permit       159.083
   Maximum area size:   160 sq. ft.  160 sq.   160 sq.
                                        ft.       ft.
   Maximum roof height: 12 feet      12 feet   12 feet
   Maximum door opening 36 sq. ft.   36 sq.    36 sq.
area:                                   ft.       ft.
   Maximum number of    1 story      1 story   1 story
stories:
(2) Detached residential   P            P         P         Building
garage:                                                     permit
   Maximum area size:   1,014 sq.    1,014 sq. 1,014 sq.
                           ft.          ft.       ft.
   Maximum number of    1 story      1 story   1 story
stories:
(3) Detached rural storage P            N         N         Building     §
building:                                                   permit       159.083
   Maximum area size:   1,500/2,500
                           sq. ft.
   Maximum number of    1 story
stories:
(4) Detached domesticated                                   PCA feedlot,
farm animal building on                                     city permit, §
parcels between 5 and 20                                    building     159.083
acres:                                                      permit
   Use:                 C            N         N
   Maximum area size:   1,500/1,014            N
                           sq. ft.
   Maximum number of    1 story
stories:
(5) Agricultural farm                                       PCA feedlot,
building on active                                          agricultural §
commercial food producing                                   building use 159.083
farm operation of more                                      permit
than 20 acres.
   Use:                 P            N         N
                           2 on parcels
                           of between   1         1
                           5.01 and 20  accessory accessory
                           acres not to detached  detached
                           exceed 2,500 building  building
(6) Total number of        sq. ft. in   not to    not to
accessory buildings        total area.  exceed    exceed
possible:                  2 on parcels 1,014 sq. 1,014 sq.
                           of less than ft. in    ft. in
                           5.0 acres    total     total
                           not to       area and  area and
                           exceed 2,000 1 tool    1 tool
                           sq. ft. in   shed      shed
                           total area
P = Permitted   N = Not Permitted   C = Conditional Use Permit   CP = City Permit
   
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 703.02) (Am. Ord. 7488, passed 5-16-2000)
   (C)   Permitted uses of detached accessory structures. As it affects all
residential districts, a detached accessory structure is to be used for
personal use or agricultural use only. No commercial use or commercial related
storage is allowed in the structure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 703.03) (Am. Ord. 7488, passed 5-16-2000)
   (D)   Relative to principal structure. No accessory building shall be
constructed nor accessory use located on a lot without a principal structure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 703.04)
   (E)   Vehicle storage. No attached accessory building used or intended for
the storage of power driven vehicles shall exceed 1,000 square feet of gross
area nor shall any structure exceed 1 story in height except when the garages
are located in business, industrial or planned unit developments except that a
1-1/2-story accessory building may be located in the Floodplain District by
conditional use permit. No detached garages shall exceed 1,014 square feet in
gross floor area in R-1 and R-3 Zoning Districts.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 703.05)
   (F)   This space intentionally left blank.
   (G)   Height; commercial/industrial. No accessory building in a commercial
or industrial district shall exceed the height of the principal building,
except by conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 703.07)
   (H)   Height; apartments. No accessory buildings in apartment developments
shall exceed the height of the principal building, except by conditional use
permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 703.08)
   (I)   Rear location. Accessory buildings in the commercial and industrial
districts may be located to the rear of the principal building, subject to the
Building Code and fire zone regulations.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 703.09)
   (J)   Relation to front lot line. No detached garage or other detached
accessory building shall be located nearer the front lot line than the
principal building on that lot, except A-1 and R-1 Districts and planned unit
or cluster developments, where detached garages or other accessory buildings
may be permitted nearer the front lot line than the principal building through
a certificate of compliance based on objective standards related to safety and
minimizing impacts on neighboring properties. (See division (R), certificate of
compliance - relation to front lot line, of this section.)
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 703.10)
   (K)   Detached garages. In R-3 Zoning Districts detached garages may be
located within 15 feet of rear lot lines, 5 feet of interior lot lines, or 20
feet of a side lot line if adjacent to a road right-of-way, if the property
owner can demonstrate that physical conditions of the lot require that
location, and an alternate septic system site shall be designated along with
written approval of adjacent property owners, submitted to the Zoning
Administrator. In no event, however, shall the structure be located closer than
20 feet to the public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 703.11)
   (L)   Houseboats. Houseboats and buildings used as shelters from which to
fish during open water months are to be considered accessory structures for
purposes of this chapter. All houseboats used within the city limits for a
period of 30 consecutive days or more shall require a city permit. The permit
shall show the owner; owner’s address; boat license number; whether the boat is
to be used as a seasonal residence, and if so, for what period of time during
the year; type of sanitary sewage facility; water supply; and site plan showing
method of access to public road. Each houseboat shall have 1 off-street parking
space within 400 feet of the docking of the houseboat. No houseboat in dry dock
or on land shall be used as a permanent residence.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 703.12)
   (M)   Ice fishing houses. Ice fishing house stored on a parcel of land and
owned by the occupant during the summer months shall be considered an accessory
storage building equivalent to a storage shed (division (A)). Ice fishing
houses shall meet the size limitations of division (B)(1) and all other
provisions of this chapter, except division (N) below.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 703.13)
   (N)   Building permit and uplift protection requirements. All accessory
buildings greater than 160 square feet in size require a building permit and
must meet the minimum uplift protection per the Minnesota Building Code.
   (O)   Location in yard setback prohibited. All accessory buildings,
including storage and tool sheds regardless of size, shall be located in areas
other than required yard setbacks.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 703.15)
   (P)   City permits. City permit requirement necessary for approval and
construction of a detached domesticated farm animal building on parcels between
5 and 20 acres. An application for a city permit and public hearing to
construct a detached domesticated farm animal building shall include the
following:
      (1)   An aerial photo illustrating within 500 feet of the proposed
structure, all adjacent properly owners’ lot lines, houses, septic systems,
fences, well, animal buildings, and other structures and feed storage areas;
all wet marshy areas, drainage ways, and shorelines; all proposed grazing areas
on the site; all new utility extensions and driveway accesses to the proposed
building; all manure storage and disposal areas;
      (2)   A written soil inventory and evaluation from the Washington County
Soil Conservation District, if requested by the Zoning Administrator;
      (3)   Details of the building floor plan, elevations, materials, and
color of structure;
      (4)   The application form shall be accompanied by an accurate list
showing the names and mailing addresses of the record owners of all property
within a minimum of 500 feet of the property for which the conditional use
permit is sought, verified as to accuracy by the applicant; and
      (5)   Notice of the purpose, time, and place of the public hearing shall
be published in the official newspaper of the city and mailed to each of the
owners of all property located within a minimum of 500 feet of the property
described in the application and such other person as the Planning Commission
may direct, at least 10 days prior to the date of the hearing. A copy of the
notice and a list of the owners and addresses to which the notice was sent
shall be attested to by the responsible person and shall be made a part of the
records of the proceedings. The failure to give mailed notice shall not
invalidate the proceedings provided a bona fide attempt to comply with the
provisions of this section has been made.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 703.16)
   (Q)   Performance. Performance standards for detached agricultural buildings
and domesticated farm animal buildings on parcels of less than 20 acres shall
include the following:
      (1)   Setbacks. All domestic farm animal buildings, feedlots, and manure
storage sites shall be set back as follows:
 
Natural or Man-Made Feature                       Minimum Horizontal Setbacks
Any property line                                 100 feet
Any existing well or residential structure on the 50 feet
same parcel
Any existing well or residential structure on     200 feet
adjacent or nearby parcel
Any body of seasonal or year-round surface water  200 feet
 
      (2)   Slopes. The building, feedlot, or manure storage shall not be
placed on slopes which exceed 13%.
      (3)   High water. Evidence of the seasonally high groundwater level or
mottled soil (as established by 6-foot borings) shall not be closer than 4 feet
to the natural surface ground grade in any area within 100 feet of the proposed
building and/or feedlot.
      (4)   Restricted locations. No marsh or wetland (as established by the
predominant wetland vegetation and/or soils) shall be utilized for placement of
the proposed structure, feedlot, or grazing area.
   (R)   Certificate of compliance - relation to front lot line. Accessory
buildings, including detached garages, barns, sheds and other such buildings,
must meet the setback standards as defined in
Chapter 159, Zoning Regulations and elsewhere in this code. However, in the A-
1 and R-1 Districts and planned unit or cluster developments, physical
conditions of the land in any given circumstances may make the ability to place
an accessory building in a location that complies with the requirements
prohibiting an accessory building from being located closer to the front lot
line that the principal structure unreasonable if not impossible. In such
circumstances, an applicant for a building permit for an accessory building may
seek relief under this chapter, and request that a certificate of compliance be
issued, allowing the setback non-conformity. In no case shall a certificate of
compliance be used to grant relief from accessory building size, number, or
height requirements of this code. In those cases a variance must be sought.
      (1)   Procedures.
         (a)   The certificate of compliance is an administrative approval
granted by the city through its Building Official, Zoning Administrator and
City Council. It is not a zoning application or zoning permit that requires a
public hearing but rather, is an administrative tool used by the City Council
and its Building Official and Zoning Administrator to grant accessory building
setback relief, if the relief is justified.
         (b)   The Building Official and Zoning Administrator will do the
initial site visit with the applicant. The certificate form will require the
applicant to provide their name, address, contact information, legal
description or parcel ID, a description of the setback relief desired, and
justification. A site diagram provided by the applicant, showing the lot
boundaries, setbacks and desired building location, along with an aerial photo
with contours if available, must be attached for the certificate of compliance
application to be deemed complete.
         (c)   To approve setback relief the city must make a determination
that a compliant, or substantially more compliant, location for the building is
not possible on this site. If the Zoning Administrator, in consultation with
the Building Official, believes that a complying, or substantially more
complying location does exist, preliminary denial of the application would be
recommended.
         (d)   The final determination to deny must be made by the Council at a
future Council meeting, at which meeting the applicant may appeal a preliminary
denial.
         (e)   If the Zoning Administrator, in consultation with the Building
Official, determines the application merits approval because no compliant or
substantially more compliant alternate location exists, preliminary approval
would be recommended and additional conditions of grant such as screening would
be provided. The determination to approve must be made by the Council, at a
future regular meeting. The Council may state conditions of grant of approval,
such as building material, appearance and color if applicable, and any
screening requirements, including the existing vegetation must remain.
Screening requirements must address the need for year-round screening, thus
typically evergreen in type.
         (f)   After consideration, the Council, by motion, shall approve or
deny the application, and the Mayor shall so indicate on the certificate, date
and sign.
         (g)   If the certificate of compliance is approved memorializing the
Council’s grant of setback relief and any conditions of grant, the certificate
of compliance must be attached to, and will be deemed part of, the eventual
building permit.
      (2)   Performance standard. The certificate of compliance cannot be used
to grant relief beyond 80% of the applicable setback standard. Thus, a new
accessory building cannot be placed any closer to the front lot line than 80%
of the principal structure’s existing setback from the front lot line. Anyone
seeking more relief than the performance standard specified herein is not
eligible for a certificate of compliance, and must seek a variance.
      (3)   Deemed compliant. An accessory building subject to an approved
certificate of compliance that grants setback relief will be deemed compliant
as to meeting setback requirements.
      (4)   Additions to accessory buildings.
         (a)   A property owner who wishes to make an addition to a compliant
accessory building, which addition will adhere to the setback performance
standard as stated herein, may apply for a certificate of compliance for that
addition. An addition that will be in violation of the performance standard can
only be approved by variance.
         (b)   A property owner who wishes to make an addition to a non-
compliant accessory building may apply for a certificate of compliance is the
addition will adhere to the setback performance standard as stated herein. The
city may, as a finding for denial, take into consideration the nature and
extent of the non-conformity of the existing building.
      (5)   Additional jurisdictions. Before a building permit is issued, the
applicant shall seek required approval from any other jurisdiction with
authority, such as the DNR.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 703.17) (Am. Ord. 7529, passed 8-16-2011; Am. Ord. 7537,
passed 4-16-2013; Am. Ord. 7555, passed 6-21-2016)
§ 159.084 SECURITY DWELLING UNITS IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   Dwelling units for watchman and family shall be considered as accessory uses
and shall conform to all applicable regulations for the district in which
located, except as herein modified:
   (A)   A dwelling unit in the commercial district located in a commercial
structure shall not occupy the front half of the ground floor or basement.
   (B)   A dwelling unit in a commercial or industrial building shall not
contain more than 1 bedroom unless the building is a part of a planned unit
development.
   (C)   No detached dwelling unit shall be permitted in the commercial or
industrial district, except as part of a planned unit development.
   (D)   A dwelling unit which is a part of the principal building shall be
provided with 2 exits; 1 shall be a direct outside exit.
   (E)   All buildings shall conform to the Building Code and applicable Fire
Codes.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 719.01)
§ 159.085 PUBLIC CONVENIENCE STRUCTURES.
   No public use or convenience structure shall be located within the public
right-of-way except by a permit issued by the Zoning Administrator or by City
Council approval. The structure shall include but not be limited to trash
containers, basketball hoops, institutional direction signs, bicycle racks,
benches, planting boxes, awnings, flag poles, bus shelters, light standards,
stairs, stoop, light wells, newspaper storage containers, loading wells, signs,
and others. All such structures as permitted shall be deemed permissively
placed and acquire no property rights to the placement. Such structures do not
include utility facilities.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 704.01)
§ 159.086 FENCES.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FENCES.  Any linear structure used to impair access by persons or animals
or impair visual or sound transference.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 705.01)
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   The side of the fence considered to be the face (finished side, as
opposed to the structural support) shall face the abutting property.
      (2)   No fences shall be permitted on public right-of-way.
      (3)   Fencing around swimming pools is covered by §
159.112.
      (4)   Fencing on nonresidential property required for screening exterior
storage may exceed the limitations herein but only by conditional use permit.
      (5)   Unless otherwise agreed to in writing by adjacent property owners,
all fence maintenance is the sole responsibility of the property owner who
constructed same and that owner's successors, heirs, and assigns.
      (6)   Fences in excess of 6 feet above ground level shall be prohibited.
      (7)   No fence may be erected on either street side of a corner lot that
will obstruct or impede the clear view of an intersection by approaching
traffic.
      (8)   In residential districts, fences located in the front yard beyond
the building shall not exceed 48 inches in height.
      (9)   No fence shall be erected where it will impede a drainage way or
drainage easement.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 705.02)
   (C)   Location of fencing. Any fence built on a property line requires
written agreement by the adjoining property owners affected. Any fence built
near but not on the property line will require that the owner leave a
reasonable space (3 feet or more) between the fence and the property line to
allow for the maintenance of the fence and the cutting of weeds on the
adjoining property owner's side of the fence.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 705.03)
   (D)   Fences allowed by conditional use permit.  
      (1)   Barbed wire fences or any fence of metal construction, which is
charged by or connected with an electrical system, shall be allowed in the city
by way of conditional use permit after the applicant has demonstrated good
cause and reasonable need for the use of that type of fence on the applicant's
property.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the cause and reasonable need for such property as
a condition of granting of the conditional use permit, the City Council may
require the construction of an additional fence located on the outer perimeter
of the applicant's property impairing or preventing access to the barbed wire
or electrically charged fence in areas where the applicant's property is
located within or adjoins a residential district of the city.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 705.04)
   (E)   Nonconforming uses.  All fences as defined in §
159.007 shall be considered as structures for the purpose of application to §
159.004 relating to nonconforming uses, buildings, and structures.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 705.05) (Am. Ord. 7482, passed 8-18-1998; Am. Ord. 7555,
passed 6-21-2016)
§ 159.087 EXTERIOR STORAGE.
   (A)   (1)   In all districts, all personal property shall be stored within a
building or fully screened so as not to be visible from public streets and
public lands, except for the following:
         (a)   Laundry drying equipment;
         (b)   Recreation equipment;
         (c)   Construction and landscaping materials and equipment currently
(within a period of 6 months) being used on the premises;
         (d)   Agricultural equipment and materials if these are used or
intended for use on the premises; and
         (e)   Off-street parking of licensed passenger vehicles.
      (2)   In residential districts, exterior storage of a single boat on a
trailer, a single trailer 25 feet or less in length or a single recreational
vehicle 45 feet or less in length, is permissible if stored in their rear yard
within all applicable setback requirements from any property line and
displaying current licensing.
      (3)   Upon application and review by the Zoning Administrator, an
alternate parking site permit may be issued if it is determined that there is
no level rear yard parking site. The alternate parking permit shall be issued
annually, and a fee will be required as established by resolution of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 706.01)
   (B)   In nonresidential districts, exterior storage of personal property may
be permitted by conditional use permit, provided any such property is so stored
for purposes relating to a use of the property permitted by this chapter and
will not be contrary to the intent and purpose of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 706.02)
   (C)   In all districts, all waste, refuse, or garbage shall be kept in an
enclosed building or properly contained in a closed container designed for
those purposes. The owner of vacant land shall be responsible for keeping the
land free of refuse and weeds. Existing uses shall comply with this provision
within 90 days following effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 706.03)
   (D)   Unlicensed passenger vehicles and trucks shall not be parked in
residential districts for a period exceeding 7 days.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 706.04)
   (E)   All exterior storage not included as a permitted accessory use, a
permitted use, or included as part of a conditional use permit or otherwise
permitted by provisions of this chapter, shall be considered as refuse.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 706.05)
   (F)   Portable storage containers may be used in all residential zoning
districts, for the storage of personal property, for a period not to exceed 30
days without a permit. After 30 days, a city permit is required to be obtained
from the City Clerk prior to the end of 30 days if the container is to be used
for an additional amount of time. All portable storage containers must be
removed after 90 days total.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 706.06)
§ 159.088 FALLOUT SHELTERS.
   Fallout shelters may be permitted in any district subject to the yard
regulations of the district. The shelters may contain or be contained in other
structures or be constructed separately, and in addition to shelter use, may be
used for any use permitted in the district, subject to the district regulations
on that use.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 717.01)
§ 159.089 TENNIS COURTS OR SPORT COURTS.
   In all districts, the following standards shall apply:
   (A)   A city permit shall be required for all private tennis courts on
residential lots.
   (B)   A conditional use permit shall be required for all public, semi-public
and commercial tennis courts or sport court.
   (C)   An application for a city permit or a conditional use permit shall
include a site plan showing: The size, shape and pavement and sub-pavement
materials, the location of the court, the location of the house, garage,
fencing, septic systems and any other structural improvements on the lot, the
location of structures on all adjacent lots, a grading plan showing all revised
drainage patterns and finished elevations at the 4 corners of the court,
landscaping and turf protection around the court, location of existing and
proposed wiring and lighting facilities.
   (D)   Tennis courts or sport courts shall not be located closer than 10 feet
to any side or rear lot line. Tennis courts or sport courts shall not be
located in any front yard.
   (E)   Tennis courts nor sport courts shall not be located over underground
utility lines of any type, nor shall any court be located within any private or
public utility, walkway, drainage, or other easement.
   (F)   Solid practice walls shall not exceed 10 feet in height. A building
permit shall be required for the walls. The walls shall be set back a minimum
of 30 feet from any lot line.
   (G)   Chain link fencing surrounding the tennis court or sport court may
extend up to 12 feet in height above the tennis court or sport court surface
elevation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 747.01)
§ 159.090 INTERIM USES AND STRUCTURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Interim uses and structures may be placed in agricultural,
commercial, or industrial districts after obtaining a conditional use permit.
      (2)   These interim uses may be utilized in a temporary manner as
specified by the City Council, during which the development planned for the
area in the city plan has not yet occurred.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 728.01)
   (B)   (1)   Interim uses and structures utilized for interim storage of
wholesale or retail products or shelter of farm crops and animals shall be
limited to a maximum of 5 years or as stipulated by the City Council.
      (2)   No wholesale or retail sales or sales office activities shall occur
on the site or in the structure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 728.02)
   (C)   Interim uses and structures shall not require additional public
roadway or premature extension of central sewer or water systems.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 728.03)
   (D)   (1)   The City Council may specify the length of time which may be
utilized for the interim use or structure.
      (2)   The specific length of time may be a condition of approval of the
conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 728.04)
   (E)   The Planning Commission and City Council shall review the interim use
or structure and shall limit the new structural investment on the site to a
specific dollar amount, which through a graduated time table of depreciation of
the structure should reach 0 book value at a specific year or length of time,
after which the interim use or structure shall be removed.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 728.05)
   (F)   Grading or alteration of the site, except for driveway access and
building construction shall not be permitted for interim uses or structures.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 728.06)
   (G)   Conditional use permits issued by the City Council for an interim use
or structure shall be recorded with the Registrar of Deeds by the applicant
prior to the issuance of building permits or certificates of occupancy.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 728.07)
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS AND USES; DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 159.100 APARTMENTS AND OTHER MULTIPLE-FAMILY USES.
   (A)   Restrictions. The construction of any multiple-family dwelling,
including apartments and 2-family dwellings in the city shall be permitted only
as a part of a planned unit development and/or cluster development
notwithstanding the provisions of this code to the contrary. The provisions of
this section hereof shall be in addition to and not in replacement of the
requirements pertaining to planned unit or cluster developments.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 736.01)
   (B)   Compliance. In recommending the granting of a conditional use permit
for structures containing 3 or more dwelling units, the Planning Commission
shall find the proposed development plan is in substantial compliance with the
approved apartment standards and city housing policies on file with the Zoning
Administrator. In no event shall any building housing 3 or more families in a
residential district have less than 10,000 square feet of lot area.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 736.02)
   (C)   Conditional use permit, application. A conditional use permit shall be
required for the construction of any multiple-family dwellings, including
apartments, 2-family dwellings or townhomes, prior to the issuance of a
building permit. The purpose of the conditional use permit shall be to assure
that the site and building plans as well as the impact on the neighborhood are
fully consistent with the intent and purpose of the zoning regulations and the
Comprehensive Plan for the area. All requests for conditional use permit shall
be accompanied by a series of site plans and data showing:
      (1)   Building locations, dimensions, and elevations; all signs,
structures, entry areas, storage sites, and other structural improvements to
the site;
      (2)   Circulation plans for both pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
      (3)   Fences and screening devices;
      (4)   Solid waste disposal provisions and facilities;
      (5)   Storm drainage plans;
      (6)   Firefighting and other public safety facilities and provisions such
as hydrant locations and fire lanes;
      (7)   Data pertaining to numbers of dwelling units, sizes, lot area,
ratios, and the like;
      (8)   Exterior wall materials and design information;
      (9)   A 2-foot contour topographic map of the existing site;
      (10)   A grading plan illustrating the proposed grade changes from the
original topographic map. All site areas, when fully developed, shall be
completely graded so as to adequately drain and dispose of all surface water,
stormwater and groundwater in such a manner as to preclude large-scale erosion,
unwanted ponding, and surface chemical runoff;
      (11)   A recreation plan illustrating in detail all recreational
facilities and structures;
      (12)   A landscape plan. The site, when fully developed, shall be
landscaped according to a plan approved by the City Council. The landscaping
plan shall specify the size, type and location of all trees and shrubbery and
the location of all seeded and sodded areas. The detailed landscape plan shall
be prepared by a state registered, professional landscape architect; and
      (13)   A soil erosion control plan for the construction period. Areas
within the construction zone shall be fenced with construction limit fencing as
per the plan to prohibit heavy machinery and/or materials from being placed on
areas not to be disturbed during construction. This shall, at a minimum,
include all slopes in excess of 18%.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 736.03)
   (D)   Review. The required plans shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission and the City Council. The conditional use permit shall not be issued
until site plan approval is obtained from the City Council after the required
public hearing. The site plans, when approved, shall be made part of the
conditional use permit and noncompliance with the site plans may be deemed by
the City Council as grounds for the revocation of the conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 736.04)
   (E)   Bond. The City Council shall require the developer to post a full
performance bond guaranteeing that street, utility, storm drainage, landscaping
and other individually specified improvements to the building site are
completed as proposed on plans approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 736.05)
   (F)   Deposit. The City Council, at its discretion, may require that the
developer deposit in the City Park Fund, a sum per dwelling unit as set forth
in §
33.01 to aid in the provision of increased recreational facilities, which are
necessitated by growth in the city's population from the development. These
monies shall be earmarked for capital improvements.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 736.06)
   (G)   Lot dimensions.
      (1)   Lot area per dwelling unit with sewer shall be as per §
159.041.
      (2)   In areas not served with public sewer and water, an engineering
study shall be required to determine the population density that an on-site
sewage system would support. This should be related to the density of the
proposed development.
      (3)   Minimum lot width of 100 feet (with central sewer).
      (4)   Front yard (setback) - 30 feet on a minor street and 50 feet on a
major street.
      (5)   Side yard (setback).
         (a)   Adjacent to another lot - 15 feet or 3/4 the height of the
building, whichever is greater.
         (b)   Adjacent to a street - 30 feet.
      (6)   Rear yard (setback) - 30 feet.
      (7)   If a site abuts more than 1 street or planned future street, each
street shall be treated as a frontage.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 736.07)
   (H)   Parking requirements.
      (1)   Two parking spaces per unit shall be provided on the same site as
the dwelling unit. Each space shall not be less than 9 feet wide and 20 feet in
length, or as approved by the Zoning Administrator, and each space shall be
served adequately with access drives.
      (2)   A minimum of 50% of the parking spaces shall be in garages.
      (3)   Parking spaces shall not be within 20 feet of the side lot line,
within the front yard or within 5 feet of the rear lot line.
      (4)   Bituminous or concrete driveways and parking areas with concrete or
asphalt curbing shall be required.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 736.08)
   (I)   Landscape provisions.
      (1)   The design shall make use of all land contained in the site. All of
the site shall be related to the circulation, recreation, screening, building,
storage, landscaping, and the like, so that no portion of the site remains
undeveloped.
      (2)   A minimum of 20% of the site shall be landscaped.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 736.09)
   (J)   Screening.
      (1)   Screening to a height of at least 5 feet shall be required where:
         (a)   Any off-street parking area contains more than 6 parking spaces
and is within 30 feet of an adjoining residential zone; and
         (b)   Where the driveway to a parking area of more than 6 parking
spaces is within 15 feet of an adjoining residential zone.
      (2)   All exterior storage shall be screened. The exterior storage
screening required shall consist of a solid fence or wall not less than 5 feet
high, but shall not extend within 15 feet of any street, driveway or lot line.
      (3)   Sidewalks shall be provided from parking areas, loading zones, and
recreation areas to the entrances of the building.
      (4)   Outdoor swimming pools or other intensive recreation shall observe
setbacks required for the principal structure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 736.10)
   (K)   Appearance. All buildings within an apartment development shall be so
planned that they have the equivalent of a front appearance on each exterior
vertical surface.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 736.11)
   (L)   General building or structural requirements.
      (1)   Requirements for exterior wall surfacing and covering. All
multiple-family dwelling buildings shall be designed and constructed to have
the equivalent of a front appearance on each exterior surface. All accessory or
ancillary buildings, including garages, shall be designed and constructed with
the same facing materials as the principal building. Such material shall be
used in the same or better proportions as used on the principal building.
      (2)   Restrictions against protruding air conditioners.  No multiple-
family dwelling shall have an air conditioning unit protruding from any
exterior wall, except to the extent required for proper functioning of the air
conditioning unit. An appropriate grill shall be provided to cover any such
protrusion, which grill shall be designed to appear as an integral part of the
exterior wall.
      (3)   Open air drying of clothes. Open air drying of clothes shall not be
permitted on the grounds of multiple-family dwellings except when the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   The areas for open air drying of clothes are specifically drawn
on the original site plans; and
         (b)   A durable and dustless surface and adequate screening is
provided for the entire area to be used for the drying of clothes.
      (4)   Play area. Each multiple-family dwelling development containing
more than 4 dwelling units shall include a play area, part of which shall be a
paved surface.
      (5)   Negative aspects. Any blighting or deteriorating aspects of the
multiple-family dwelling development shall be placed upon or absorbed by the
site itself, rather than by neighboring residential uses. This provision
particularly applies to the location of parking areas.
      (6)   No land undeveloped. The design shall make use of all land
contained in the site. All of the site shall be related to the multiple-family
use, either parking, circulation, recreation, landscaping, screening, building,
storage, and the like, so that no portion remains undeveloped.
      (7)   Trash incinerators and garbage. Except with townhouses and
multiple-family dwellings of 4 or less units, no exterior incineration and all
storage shall be completed enclosed by walls and roof.
      (8)   Street access. If it is intended that individual buildings of a
multiple-family dwelling complex be sold separately, provision shall be made so
that each such building to be sold abuts upon a public street.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 736.12)
§ 159.101 TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   The construction of any multiple-family dwelling, including
townhouses, in the city shall be permitted only as a part of a planned unit
development and/or cluster development approved in accordance with the
procedure for planned unit development and/or cluster development
notwithstanding other provisions of this code to the contrary. The provisions
of this section shall be in addition to and not in replacement of the
requirements pertaining to planned unit and cluster developments.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 737.01)
   (B)   Townhouse developments, the placing of common wall residential
dwelling units in compact groupings, may be permitted in any residential or
multiple-family district following issuance of a conditional use permit. In
recommending the granting of a conditional use permit for structures containing
2 or more dwelling units, but only 1 use, the Planning Commission shall find
that the proposed development plan is in substantial compliance with the
approved townhouse and multiple- family standards of this chapter and the city
housing policies on file with the Zoning Administrator. All requests for
conditional use permits for townhouse developments shall be accompanied by a
series of site plans and data showing:
      (1)   Complete details of the proposed site development, including
location of buildings, driveways, parking spaces, dimensions of the parking
spaces, dimensions of the lots, lot area, and yard dimensions;
      (2)   Complete recreation plans illustrating all recreational facilities
and structures;
      (3)   Complete circulation plans for proposed pedestrian and vehicular
traffic;
      (4)   Population and services required (kind and amount);
      (5)   Complete plans for screening and fencing devices;
      (6)   Preliminary architectural plans showing the floor plan and
elevations of the proposed buildings;
      (7)   Complete plans and specifications for exterior wall finishes
proposed for all principal and accessory structures;
      (8)   Complete data as to dwelling unit sizes and ratios of dwelling
units to total lot space;
      (9)   A 2-foot contour topographic map of the existing site;
      (10)   A grading plan illustrating the proposed grade changes from the
original topographic map. All site area, when fully developed, shall be
completely graded so as to adequately drain and dispose of all surface water,
stormwater, and groundwater in such a manner as to preclude large scale erosion
and unwanted ponding and surface chemical runoff;
      (11)   Estimates of solid waste disposal and provisions and facility
plans for such disposal;
      (12)   Complete plans and documents of the homeowners' association, which
explain:
         (a)   Ownership and membership requirements;
         (b)   Organization of the association;
         (c)   Time at which the developer turns the association over to the
homeowners;
         (d)   Approximate monthly or yearly association fee for homeowners;
and
         (e)   Specific listing of items owned in common, including such items
as roads, recreational facilities, parking, common open space grounds, and
utilities.
      (13)   A services and facilities plan shall contain a map or maps setting
forth the general location and extent of any and all existing and proposed
systems for sewage, domestic water supply and distribution, refuse disposal,
drainage, local utilities and rights-of-way, easements, facilities, and
appurtenances necessary therefor;
      (14)   Firefighting and other public safety facilities and provisions,
such as hydrant locations and fire lanes;
      (15)   A landscape plan. The site, when fully developed, shall be
landscaped according to a plan approved by the City Council. The landscaping
plan shall specify the size, type, and location of all trees and shrubbery, and
the location of all seeded and sodded areas. The detailed landscape plan shall
be submitted by a state registered, professional landscape architect;
      (16)   A soil erosion control plan for the construction period. Areas
within the construction zone shall be fenced with construction limit fencing as
per the plan to prohibit heavy machinery and/or materials from being placed on
areas not to be disturbed during construction. This shall, at a minimum,
include all slopes in excess of 18%;
      (17)   A construction staging plan illustrating the staging phases and
order of construction in specific time periods; and
      (18)   A preliminary plat.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 737.02)
   (C)   The required plans shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission and
the City Council. The conditional use permit shall not be issued until site
plan approval is obtained from the City Council after the required public
hearing. The site plans, when approved, shall be made part of the conditional
use permit and noncompliance with the site plans may be deemed by the City
Council as grounds for the revocation of the conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 737.03)
   (D)   The City Council shall require the developer to post a 125%
performance bond guaranteeing that street, utility, storm drainage, landscaping
and other individually specified improvements to the building site are
completed as proposed on plans approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 737.04)
   (E)   Following approval of the site plans, building permits may be issued
for proposed structures within the approved development permit area, provided
that:
      (1)   The project appears to be in substantial conformance with the final
approved conditional use permit and with the approved site plans;
      (2)   The necessary bonds have been acquired as provided in this section;
      (3)   The proposed improvement or building construction is in accordance
with the approved order of construction as per the construction staging plan or
other specific terms of the approved permit as may be in any way involved
respecting a staged development;
      (4)   The final plat as is required by the terms of this chapter has been
filed with the appropriate governmental recording agency; and
      (5)   The proposed structure meets the requirements of applicable codes.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 737.05)
   (F)   The following standards shall apply although these may be modified and
added to under provisions of the conditional use permit:
      (1)   Minimum project area per unit shall be 6,000 square feet;
      (2)   Diversity in housing types and architecture within an overall
design plan shall be required;
      (3)   In addition to common open space, each unit shall have an area
specifically designed and developed for outdoor living (patio, small yard,
large balcony, and the like) for individual family enjoyment as contrasted to
apartment living;
      (4)   Each project shall have family or private recreation areas
specifically designed to accommodate the needs of the occupants;
      (5)   Air conditioners and other apparatus shall be designed such that
they blend in well with the architecture and in no way conflict with outdoor
living aspects of the project;
      (6)   Applicable standards for normal multiple-dwelling structures (§
159.100) such as those relating to noise, fire alarms, storage of trash, and
the like shall be applied to townhouse developments;
      (7)   Not less than 25% of the total project area shall be useable open
space designed and developed for common use by the occupants of the development
for recreational and other common usage participation. Open spaces between
structures, including those spaces being used as recreational areas shall be
protected by adequate covenants or such other methods as may be specified;
      (8)   The dimensions and construction of roads and parking areas within
the development, whether or not public dedication of them is contemplated,
shall conform to all applicable city regulations and standards;
      (9)   The height of any dwelling unit shall not exceed 35 feet, nor shall
the distance between principal structures be less than 30 feet;
      (10)   Any dwelling unit which contains a study or similar room capable
of being converted into a bedroom, shall be considered as having the room as a
bedroom;
      (11)   Minimum total floor area requirements shall be the same as for
multiple-family structures;
      (12)   All buildings including attached or detached garages shall be set
back from the street curb at least 25 feet. No building within a townhouse
project shall be closer than 60 feet to any single-family zoning district;
      (13)   Each dwelling unit shall be provided with at least 1-1/2 parking
spaces and in addition, 1 fully enclosed parking space;
      (14)   The storage of boats, campers, trailers, disabled cars, or any
similar uses shall be permitted in a designated location on the site and shall
contain 1/2 parking space per dwelling unit. This storage site shall be fenced,
screened, and have lockable gates;
      (15)   Each dwelling shall be occupied by 1 family as defined in the
zoning regulations. No dwelling shall be utilized for any purpose other than
occupancy by a family, unless specifically authorized by conditions of a
conditional use permit;
      (16)   Television antennas are to be centralized for 4 or more attached
groupings of dwelling units;
      (17)   A fee in an amount as set forth in §
33.01 per dwelling unit shall be paid into the Park and Recreation Fund as
building permits are issued. All or portions of the fee may be refunded
following full development of the project, provided it can be demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the City Council that all or portions of the recreational
needs of the occupants have been met within the project development. Generally
recognized standards for neighborhood recreational needs shall be utilized as a
guideline to making this decision; and
      (18)   Townhouse projects proposed in zoning districts where public sewer
and water are not available or are not installed shall not exceed the allowable
net dwelling unit density for single-family residences in the same district.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 737.06)
   (G)   All applicants for a conditional use permit for clustered townhouse
developments shall be required to file with the appropriate governmental
recording agency a plat of the clustered townhouse development complying with
all of the requirements of
Chapter 158, except to the extent that the Planning Commission may have given
specific permission to the effect that specific portions of the Subdivision
Ordinance may be waived. Such required plats shall be filed within 120 days
after the date of the action giving final approval.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 737.07)
   (H)   Whenever it does not contradict the provisions of this chapter as it
relates to an adopted transportation plan or the protection of opportunities
for reasonable development of surrounding land adjacent to a development
proposed in the application, streets which are intended to be kept continuously
closed to public travel or are at all times posted as private streets may be
retained as private streets and so reflected upon the final plat made a part of
the permit; provided an agreement is entered into between the owner of the
private streets and the city assuring that the construction, operation, and
maintenance of the streets will be accomplished in accordance with the approved
standards (see §
159.159).
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 737.08) (Am. Ord. 7555, passed 6-21-2016)
§ 159.102 CLUSTER DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Cluster development, the placing of residential dwelling units into
compact groupings, may be permitted in any residential or multiple-family
district following the completion and approval of a preliminary and final plat
for a cluster development. The Planning Commission and City Council shall find
that the proposed development plan is in substantial compliance with the
applicable standards of this chapter and the city housing policies on file with
the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 738.01)
   (B)   A CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT shall be defined in this section as a
residential development in which a number of single-family dwelling units are
grouped on smaller than usual or minimum lots, leaving some land undivided for
common use by all residents of the development.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 738.02)
   (C)   Common land may be preserved as agricultural land, open recreational
facilities, or for preservation of natural or scenic resources.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 738.03)
   (D)   Except for minimum setbacks and height limitations for the district in
which the development is proposed, altered dimensional standards may be allowed
as exceptions to this chapter for cluster development, provided that:
      (1)   In Agricultural (A) and Residential (R-1) Districts of this
chapter, the number of dwelling units allowed shall not exceed the total number
of dwelling units allowed if the development was based on the minimum lot size
requirements for a single-family residential subdivision.
      (2)   In Residential (R-3) and multiple dwelling districts of this
chapter, and only where public sewer and water will be installed in the
proposed cluster development, the number of dwelling units shall not exceed 50%
more than the total number of dwelling units allowed if the development was
based on the minimum lot size requirements for single-family residential
subdivisions.
      (3)   Open space shall be preserved. At least 40% of the site shall be
kept in its natural state or utilized for recreation or agricultural purposes.
      (4)   In areas where public sewer and water are not available, adequate
soil area shall be shown on the preliminary plat for 2 individual septic
drainfields for each dwelling unit or plans and tests which provide adequate
space for 1 central septic drainfield and 1 reserve or back-up area.
      (5)   Complete plans and documents of the homeowners' association are
submitted which explain:
         (a)   Ownership and membership requirements;
         (b)   Organization of the association;
         (c)   Time at which the developer turns the association over to the
homeowners;
         (d)   Approximate monthly or yearly association fee for homeowners;
and
         (e)   Specific listing of items owned in common, including such items
as roads, recreation facilities, parking, common open space ground, and
utilities.
      (6)   No cluster development lot shall be less than 6,000 square feet in
area.
      (7)   Whenever it does not contradict the provisions of this chapter as
it relates to an adopted transportation plan or the protection of opportunities
for reasonable development of surrounding land adjacent to a development
proposed in the application, street which are intended to be kept continuously
closed to public travel or are at all times posted as private streets may be
retained as private streets and so reflected upon the final plat made a part of
the permit; provided an agreement is entered into between the owner of the
streets and the city assuring that the construction, operation and maintenance
of the streets will be accomplished in accordance with approved city standards
(see §
159.159).
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 738.04)
   (E)   All applicants for residential single-family cluster developments
shall be required to file with the appropriate governmental recording agency, a
plat of the clustered development complying with all of the requirements of
Chapter 158, except to the extent that the Planning Commission may have given
specific permission to the effect that specific portions of the Subdivision
Ordinance may be waived. Such required plats shall be filed within 120 days
after the date of the action giving final approval.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 738.05)
§ 159.103 GUEST HOUSES.
   (A)   A GUEST HOUSE, for the purpose of this section, shall be an accessory
building detached from the principal building with temporary accommodations for
sleeping, but having no kitchen facility. It is intended for the use of persons
visiting the occupants of the principal structure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 718.01)
   (B)   Guest houses shall be permitted in all residential districts and shall
conform to all requirements of this code and other regulations applicable to
residential dwellings setback and yard requirements in relation to the
principal structure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 718.02)
   (C)   All guest houses shall have designated off-street parking spaces.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 718.03)
   (D)   A city permit shall be required for a guest house.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 718.04)
§ 159.104 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to define and regulate home
occupations so that such occupations are not likely to cause a nuisance or
hazard to the neighborhood. This section is not intended to limit or discourage
home occupations except as they are likely to infringe upon the rights of
others.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 749.01)
   (B)   Permitted uses.  All types of home occupations are allowed except
those not permitted by existing ordinances of the city in residential zones
(see §
159.043 for allowed uses).
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 749.02)
   (C)   Criteria. The following criteria must be met, or the proposed use must
be established as a conditional use in the zoning district and the proper
permit obtained. If the use does not meet the criteria, or is not conditionally
permitted then the use shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   No persons other than members of the family who reside on the
premises shall be engaged in such occupation.
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than 30% of floor area of the dwelling unit shall be
used in the conduct of the home occupation.   
      (3)   Exterior storage of equipment or materials used for the home
occupation is not permitted.
      (4)   Any business operations conducted in an accessory building or
garage shall be conducted entirely within the accessory building, and no
exterior modifications to the building shall be permitted which would indicate
that the structure is being used for commercial activity.
      (5)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the principal
building or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home
occupation other than any signage as permitted by the city's ordinances.
      (6)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volume than would be normally be expected of a residence in a residential
neighborhood, and the driveway shall be designed accordingly.
      (7)   No more than 2 cars may be parked on a public street related to the
home occupation.
      (8)   Off-street parking areas may not exceed 2 stalls and shall not be
located in any required yard setback area and must be screened from any
adjacent residential use.
      (9)   Objectionable noise, vibration, smoke, dust, electrical
disturbances, heat, glare, or hazardous or toxic material shall not be
produced, stored, or kept upon the premises. Any waste disposed of in the sewer
system shall not create or cause a greater volume than that which is normally
gnerated by a single-family residential dwelling.
      (10)   The home occupation shall not cause internal or external
alterations of substance to the dwelling unit, nor shall it involve
construction features not customarily found in single-family residential
dwellings.
      (11)   Cannabis sales and products manufacturing are not permitted as a
home occupation. All unlicensed sales are not permitted in the City of
Lakeland.
   (D)   Permit required. The fee owner of the residential dwelling in which a
home occupation is proposed to be conducted shall be required to hold a
certificate of compliance or conditional use permit before engaging in any such
occupation or before allowing the occupation to take place upon the premises.
An application for the required permit may be obtained by making application to
the Zoning Administrator pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.(Prior
Code, Ch. 300 § 749.05)
   (E)   Enforcement, suspension/revocation, abandonment and/or discontinuation
of home occupation.  
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator and/or the City Council may from time to
time request of any applicant and/or any person conducting a home occupation
verification that the home occupation is being conducted in a manner consistent
with the permit conditions and this section. The City Council may suspend or
revoke any city permit for violation of any provision or condition of this
chapter, or if the use is in violation of the required permit conditions.
      (2)   Suspension and/or revocation of the permit for home occupation
shall be preceded by written notice to the applicant/fee owner providing an
opportunity to be heard before the City Council at a special or regular meeting
thereof. The notice shall be given at least 8 days in advance of the time and
the place of hearing which shall be specified therein and shall also state the
nature of the violations alleged.
      (3)   The City Council may, without any advance notice, temporarily
suspend any city permit pending hearing on revocation or suspension for a
period not exceeding 30 days.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 749.06) (Am. Ord. 7432, passed 8-16-1982; Am. Ord. 2020-
07, passed - -2020; Am. Ord. 2024-28, passed 12-17-2024)
COMMERCIAL AND BUSINESS USES
§ 159.110 DRIVE-IN BUSINESS.
   (A)   The entire area of any drive-in business shall have a drainage system
approved by the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 720.01)
   (B)   The entire area other than that occupied by structures or planting
shall be surfaced with a hard surface material, which will control dust and
drainage.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 720.02)
   (C)   A box curb at least 6 inches above grade shall separate the public
walk area from the lot, except as approved entrance or exit drives.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 720.03)
   (D)   A fence or screen of acceptable design not over 6 feet in height or
less than 4 feet shall be constructed along the property line abutting a
residential district and such fence or screen shall be adequately maintained.
The fence shall not be required in the front of the setback line.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 720.04)
   (E)   (1)   No person shall construct, operate, or maintain a drive-in
business within the city without first obtaining a conditional use permit.
      (2)   Any drive-in business serving food or beverages may also provide,
in addition to vehicular service areas, indoor food and beverage service
seating area sufficient to accommodate at least 24 customers.
      (3)   The hours of operation shall be set forth as a condition of any
drive-in business conditional use permit.
      (4)   Each drive-in business serving food may have outside seating for a
least 24 customers.
      (5)   Each food or beverage drive-in business shall place refuse
receptacles at all exits as well as 1 refuse receptacle per 10 vehicle parking
spaces within the parking area.
      (6)   Landscaped planting islands as stipulated in §
159.160(E) shall be required.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 720.05)
   (F)   Locations:
      (1)   No drive-in business shall be located within 400 feet of a public
or parochial school, church, public recreation area, or any residential
district.
      (2)   No drive-in business shall be located such that it may increase
traffic volumes on nearby residential streets.
      (3)   No drive-in shall be located on any street other than one
designated as a thoroughfare or business service road in the Comprehensive
Plan.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 720.06)
   (G)   Site plan:
      (1)   The site plan shall clearly indicate suitable storage containers
for all waste material. All commercial refuse containers shall be screened.
      (2)   A landscaping plan shall be included and shall set forth complete
specifications for plant materials and other features.
      (3)   Adequate area shall be designated for snow storage such that clear
visibility shall be maintained from the property to any public street.
      (4)   The design of any structure shall be compatible with other
structures in the surrounding area.
      (5)   No drive-in business shall be located on a lot less than 30,000
square feet.
      (6)   Electrical devices such as loudspeakers, automobile service order
devices, drive-in theater car speakers, and similar instruments shall not be
located within 400 feet of any residentially zoned or used property, nor within
200 feet of any adjacent lot regardless of use or zoning district.
      (7)   No service shall be rendered, deliveries made, or sales conducted
within the required front yard; customers served in vehicles shall be parked to
the sides and/or rear of the principal structure.
      (8)   No permanent or temporary signs visible from the public street
shall be erected without specific approval in the permit.
      (9)   No plan shall be approved which will in any way constitute a hazard
to vehicular or pedestrian circulation. No access drive shall be within 50 feet
of intersecting street curb lines.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 720.07)
   (H)   Violation of any applicable law or ordinance in the conditions of the
permit shall be cause for permit revocation or suspension (notice of violation
and hearings).
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 720.08)
   (I)   In the case of a drive-in theater, a solid fence not less than 8 feet
in height and extending at least to within 2 feet of the ground shall be
constructed around the property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 720.09)
   (J)   The lighting shall be designed so as to have no direct source of light
visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent land in residential use.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 720.10)
§ 159.111 COIN-OPERATED MACHINES.
   Coin-operated automatic machines dispensing food, soft drinks and other food
and materials shall not be permitted outside of a building, except as part of a
conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 725.01)
§ 159.112 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Swimming pools defined. For the purposes of this chapter, a SWIMMING
POOL is defined as any structure basin, chamber, or tank containing an
artificial body of water for swimming, diving, or recreational bathing and
having a depth of more than 24 inches at any point and/or a surface area that
exceeds 150 square feet.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 726.01)
   (B)   Standards. In all districts where single- and 2-family dwelling units
are permitted uses, the following standards apply:
      (1)   A city permit shall be required for any outdoor swimming pool with
a capacity of over 3,000 gallons or with a depth of over 3-1/2 feet of water.
      (2)   An application for a city permit shall include a site plan showing:
         (a)   The type and size of pool, location of pool;
         (b)   Location of house, garage, fencing, and other improvements on
the lot;
         (c)   Location of structures on all adjacent lots; and
         (d)   Location of filter unit, pump, and writing indicating the type
of such units, location of back-flush and drainage outlets, grading plan,
finished elevations, and final treatment (decking, landscaping, and the like)
around the pool, location of existing overhead and underground wiring, utility
easements, trees, and similar features, and location of any water heating unit.
      (3)   Pools shall not be located within 10 feet of any septic tank/
drainfield nor within 6 feet of any principal structure or frost footing. Pools
shall not be located within any required front or side yard setbacks.
(Am. Ord. 7489, passed 5-16-2000)
      (4)   Pools shall not be located beneath overhead utility lines nor over
underground utility lines of any type.
      (5)   Pools shall not be located within any private or public utility,
walkway, drainage, or other easement.
      (6)   In the case of underground pools, the necessary precautions shall
be taken during the construction, to:
         (a)   Avoid damage, hazards, or inconvenience to adjacent or nearby
property.
         (b)   Assure that proper care shall be taken in stockpiling excavated
material to avoid erosion, dust, or other infringements upon adjacent property.
      (7)   All access for construction shall be over the owner's land and due
care shall be taken to avoid damage to public streets and adjacent private or
public property.
      (8)   To the extent feasible, backflush water or water from pool drainage
shall be directed onto the owner's property or into approved public drainage
ways. Water shall not drain onto adjacent or nearby private land.
      (9)   The filter unit, pump, heating unit, and any other noise-making
mechanical equipment shall be located at least 50 feet from any adjacent or
nearby residential structure and not closer than 10 feet to any lot line.
      (10)   Lighting for the pool shall be directed toward the pool and not
toward adjacent property.
      (11)   A structure or safety fence of a non-climbable type at least 5
feet in height with self-closing and self-latching gate ,shall completely
enclose the pool, for any pool having a capacity of over 3,000 gallons or with
a depth of over 2-1/2 feet, but shall not be located within any required
setback areas.
         (a)   Exception. A pool cover or other protective device approved by
the city building inspector shall be an acceptable enclosure so long as the
degree of protection afforded by the substituted devices or structures is not
less than the protection afforded by the gate and latch described above and is
in compliance with the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM)
standard F1346. The substitution with such a pool cover or other protective
device shall be done by the issuance of a certificate of compliance and shall
be considered an exception from the provision of division (11) of this section.
The applicant shall submit a written request for the certificate of compliance
which shall include the specifications of the proposed protective device to be
installed. The certificate of compliance may include reasonable conditions
including specific times of required closure, use, maintenance and management
of the pool cover, etc.
      (12)   Water in the pool shall be maintained in a suitable manner to
avoid health hazards of any type. Such water shall be subject to periodic
inspection by the local health officer.
      (13)   All wiring, installation of heating units, grading, installation
of pipes, and all other installations and construction shall be subject to
inspection.
      (14)   Any proposed deviation from these standards and requirements shall
require a variance in accordance with normal zoning procedures.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 726.02)
   (C)   Multiple-family dwelling areas.  Private swimming pools which are
intended for and used by the occupants of a multiple-family dwelling and the
guests of the occupants of the dwelling shall adhere to the following
regulations:
      (1)   No part of the water surface of the swimming pool shall be less
than 50 feet from any lot line.
      (2)   No pumps, filters, or other apparatus used in connection with or to
service a swimming pool shall be located less than 50 feet from any lot line.
      (3)   The pool area shall be adequately fenced to prevent uncontrolled
access from the street or adjacent property. Adequate screening, including but
not limited to landscaping, shall be placed between the pool area and adjacent
single-family district lot lines.
      (4)   All deck areas, adjacent patios, or other similar areas used in
conjunction with the swimming pool shall be located at least 30 feet from any
lot line in an adjacent single-family district.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 726.03)
   (D)   In all zoning districts.
      (1)   All outdoor swimming pools existing and hereinafter constructed
shall be completely enclosed by a safety fence or wall at least 5 feet in
height, and same being installed within 3 weeks following the installation of
the pool and before any water is allowed in the pool. All fence openings or
points of entry into the pool area shall be equipped with self-closing and
self-latching devices placed at the top of the gate or in a manner otherwise
inaccessible to small children. Any openings between the fence bottom and the
ground or other surface shall not exceed 4 inches. Existing pools not presently
in compliance with this provision shall comply prior to any water being allowed
in pool.
      (2)   Drainage of pools into public streets or other public drainage ways
shall require written permission of the appropriate local public officials.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 726.04) (Am. Ord. 2021-09, passed 12-21-2021)
§ 159.113 AUTOMOBILE SALES AND SHOWROOMS.
   The building and premises for automobile sales and showrooms shall meet the
following requirements:
   (A)   Setback and lot requirements.
      (1)   Parking. A minimum of 25-foot wide landscaped yard shall be
required and maintained between any public street right-of-way and parking lots
or buildings.
      (2)   Contiguous site.  Motor vehicle sales shall be on 1 lot or
contiguous lots not separated by a public street, alley, or other use.
      (3)    Lot width. The minimum lot width shall be 150 feet at the minimum
required front yard setback.
      (4)   Lot area.  A minimum lot area of 2 acres shall be required.
Structures and parking surfaces may not cover more than 50% of the lot.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 729.01)
      (5)   Rear yard setback. The rear yard setback shall be a minimum of 50
feet and shall be landscaped.
      (6)   Side yard setback. The side yard setback shall be a minimum of 100
feet from any principal residential structure on an adjacent lot.
   (B)   Access driveways.
      (1)    Distance of driveway from street intersection. The distance of the
driveway from the street intersection shall not be less than 5 feet, provided,
however, greater distances may be required to avoid reasonably anticipated
traffic hazards.
      (2)   Minimum distance between driveways. Minimum distance between
driveways shall be 25 feet at the curb cut.
      (3)   Minimum driveway angle to street.  Minimum driveway angle to street
shall be 60 degrees, unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
      (4)   Distance between driveway and adjacent property. Minimum distance
between driveway and adjacent property shall be 5 feet at the curb cut.
      (5)   Maximum dimensions.  No driveway shall exceed 25 feet in width and
no curb cut shall exceed 32 feet in width.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 729.02)
   (C)   Screening.  A screen shall be erected and maintained along all
property lines separating institutional, residential dwelling or business and
professional office districts or uses. The screening required in this section
shall be not less than 5 feet in height, may be a combination of vegetation and
fencing, and must be at least 75% opaque.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 729.03) ( Am. Ord. 2019-33, passed – –2019)
   (D)   Landscaping. A landscaped yard shall be constructed and maintained on
all areas of the site not devoted to the building or parking area.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 729.04)
   (E)   Curbing. Interior concrete or asphalt curbs shall be constructed
within the property to separate driving and parking surfaces from landscaped
areas. Interior curbs required by this section shall be a nominal 6 inches in
height.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 729.05)
   (F)   Surfacing. The entire site on which motor vehicle sales is located,
other than that devoted to buildings and structures or landscaped areas, shall
be hard surfaced and maintained to control dust, erosion, and drainage, before
operation of the business begins.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 729.06)
   (G)   Parking.  The following required parking spaces shall be shown and
designated on the site plan.
All parking areas must be striped and visually identified.
      (1)   Customer parking. A minimum of 10 customer parking spaces shall be
provided for every acre of total site area in a commercial or business
district.
      (2)   Employee parking.  A minimum of 2 employee parking spaces shall be
provided for every 3 employees.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 729.09)
   (H)   Outside sales and storage areas. The maximum area permitted for
outside storage of automobiles, new and used, shall not exceed 5 square feet of
outside storage area to each 1 square foot of enclosed ground floor area. No
more than 1 automobile shall be stored on each 300 square feet of outside paved
storage area. No rooftop parking shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 729.08)
   (I)   Surface drainage plan and improvements. A drainage plan shall
illustrate all paved area surface drainage flows. Catch basins and/or settling
ponds shall be required to dispose of interior parking or display area
drainage.
   (J)   Signage and on-site advertising. No rooftop displays, open hoods,
windows or windshields shall be used for any advertising signage. No use of
ramps or vertical devices for elevated displays shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 729.09) (Am. Ord. 2019-33, passed – –2019)
§ 159.114 LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   Prohibition of manure deposition without safeguards. No manure or
livestock waste shall be deposited, stored, kept or allowed to remain in or
upon any storage site or feedlot without reasonable safeguards adequate to
prevent the escape or movement of the manure or waste or a solution thereof
from the site which may result in pollution of any public waters or any health
hazard.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 730.01)
   (B)   Pollution Control Agency standard minimum requirements. All
regulations imposed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency relating to
keeping of livestock shall be adhered to, and such regulations shall be
considered the minimum safeguard necessary to prevent pollution of public
waters or creation of a health hazard. New livestock feedlots, poultry lots,
and other animal lots are prohibited within the following areas:
      (1)   Within 1,000 feet of the normal high water mark of any lake, pond,
or flowage; or within 300 feet of a river or stream;
      (2)   Within a floodway;
      (3)   Within 1,000 feet to the boundary of a public park; and
      (4)   Within 1/2 mile of the nearest point to a concentration of 10 or
more private nonfarm residences.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 730.02)
   (C)   Permit required.  No feedlot or manure storage site shall be
maintained unless a permit therefor has first been issued by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency and by the Zoning Administrator as provided herein.
The application for a permit by the owner or other person responsible for a
feedlot or manure storage site shall be accompanied by plans showing the
features and method of operation and construction and existing or proposed
safeguards or disposal systems. The City Council may thereafter issue a permit
therefor upon such conditions as it shall prescribe to prevent pollution of any
public water or creation of a health hazard.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 730.03)
   (D)   Inadequate safeguards.  In case the Zoning Administrator shall find
that any manure is stored or kept on any feedlot or storage site without a
safeguard, or that any existing safeguard is inadequate, the Administrator may
order the owner or other responsible person to immediately remove the manure
from the feedlot or storage site and refrain from further storage or keeping of
any manure thereat unless and until an adequate safeguard is provided as herein
prescribed.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 730.04)
   (E)   Notice concerning loss.  It shall be the duty of the owner of a
feedlot or manure storage site or other responsible person in charge thereof to
notify immediately the Zoning Administrator of any loss of stored manure either
by accident or otherwise when the loss involves a substantial amount which
would be likely to enter any waters of the state. The notice shall be by
telephone or other comparable means and shall be made without delay after
discovery of the loss. The notification shall include the location and nature
of the loss and such other pertinent information as may be available at the
time.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 730.05)
   (F)   Hazards and nuisances. On parcels of less than 40 acres which are not
part of a larger crop-producing commercial agricultural farm, the keeping of
horses, cattle, or other domestic farm animals on a site with less than 2 acres
of existing grazing land per animal is hereby declared to be a nuisance. No
domestic farm animals shall be placed on any site of less than 5 acres.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 730.06)
   (G)   Grazing acres. Grazing acreage shall be defined as open, non-treed
acreage currently providing enough pasture or other agricultural crops capable
of supporting summer grazing at a density of 1 animal unit or its equivalent,
per 2 acres. For purposes of these regulations, the following animal
equivalents apply:
Animal Units
Animal                      Units
1 Slaughter steer or heifer 1
1 Horse                     1
1 Mature dairy cow          1.4
1 Swine over 55 pounds      .4
1 Sheep                     .1
1 Turkey                    .018
1 Chicken                   .01
1 Duck                      .2
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 730.07)
   (H)   Permit required. The keeping of domestic farm animals in greater
density than allowed by division (G) of this section shall require a
conditional use permit. To obtain the permit, the applicant must demonstrate
that facilities are present and appropriate practices are being employed to
preclude surface or groundwater contamination, excessive manure accumulation,
odor, noise, or other nuisances. The applicant must have a Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency feedlot permit for the proposed use.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 730.08)
§ 159.115 SERVICE STATIONS.
   (A)   Before a conditional use permit for a service station is granted, the
minimum requirements of the zoning district in which the service station is to
be located shall be met.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 735.01)
   (B)   A drainage system, subject to approval by the City Engineer, shall be
installed. The entire site, other than that taken up by a structure or
planting, shall be surfaced with concrete or other material approved by the
City Council. Pump islands shall not be placed in the required yards. The area
around the pump island to a distance of 8 feet on each side shall be concrete.
A box curb not less than 6 inches above grade shall separate the public right-
of-way from the motor vehicle service areas, except at approved entrances and
exits. No driveways at a property line shall be less than 50 feet from the
intersection of 2 street right-of-way lines. Each service station shall have at
least 2 driveways with a minimum distance of 170 feet between centerlines when
located on the same street.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 735.02)
   (C)   No vehicles shall be parked on the premises other than those utilized
by employees or awaiting service. No vehicle shall be parked or be awaiting
service longer than 15 days.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 735.03)
   (D)   Exterior storage besides vehicles shall be limited to service
equipment and items offered for sale on pump islands; exterior storage of items
offered for sale shall be within yard setback requirements and shall be located
in containers such as racks, metal trays, and similar structures designed to
display merchandise.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 735.04)
   (E)   All areas utilized for storage, disposal of trash, debris, discarded
parts, and similar items shall be fully screened. All structures and grounds
shall be maintained in an orderly, clean, and safe manner.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 735.05)
   (F)   Service stations shall be subject to all of the requirements necessary
for the review and issuance of a conditional use permit as per §
159.024.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 735.06)
§ 159.116 SHOPPING CENTERS.
   (A)   Shopping centers may be permitted in residential and general business
districts following the issuance of a planned unit development conditional use
permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 739.01)
   (B)   Shopping centers which contain 2 or less retail stores on 5 acres or
less may follow the planned unit development procedures set forth in §
159.066.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 739.02)
   (C)   Shopping centers which contain 3 or more retail stores and/or include
more than 5 acres in the total development plan shall follow the planned unit
development procedure set forth in §
159.065.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 739.03)
   (D)   The total development plan of any shopping center shall include at
least 2 acres, although there is no minimum lot size for individual businesses
located within a shopping center.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 739.04)
   (E)   The developers of any shopping center shall demonstrate that they are
financially able to carry out the project and that they will begin construction
within 18 months after action on the proposal, and will substantially complete
the project within 5 years; if the construction has not begun within 18 months,
or if the project is not 50% completed within 5 years, any further development
of any type shall require a conditional use permit and the Planning Commission
may move to initiate a rezoning back to that in effect prior to commercial
zoning.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 739.05)
   (F)   Shopping centers shall be located adjacent to an arterial or collector
street as shown on the City Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 739.06)
   (G)   All uses proposed in this section shall comply with the dimensional
criteria established for the general and retail commercial district in §
159.041.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 739.07)
§ 159.117 COMMERCIAL SPECIAL OCCASION CEREMONY VENUE.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent is to establish regulations
for ceremony venues, to allow these venues in a manner that contributes to the
rural residential character of the R-1 and A-2 Zones in the city. The intent is
to allow ceremonies. A commercial special occasion ceremony venue is a location
to conduct a formal ceremony observing a special occasion, and operated with
the intention of earning a profit by providing the venue to the public.
Examples of uses not permitted under the definition of special occasion
ceremony venue are receptions, meetings, and conferences. Prohibited uses are
not limited to this list.
   (B)   Required permits. An interim use permit is required for a ceremony
venue in the R-1 or A-2 Zone.
   (C)   Other requirements. Ceremony venues must comply with all rules and
regulations of federal, state, county, and local agencies.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   A minimum lot area of 20 acres shall be provided.
      (2)   A ceremony venue shall be an accessory use. The primary use shall
be a homesteaded dwelling and the primary structure shall be the dwelling unit.
The ceremony venue shall be operated by the occupant of the homesteaded
dwelling.
      (3)   Accessory structures are subject to the standards contained in §
159.083 Accessory Buildings and Structures. With an interim use permit, an
accessory structure may be permitted for ceremony venue use.
      (4)   Prohibited uses. Assembly including parties, receptions, meetings,
conferences, and other events outside the purpose and intent of a special
occasion ceremony venue are prohibited.
      (5)   There shall be no food or alcoholic beverages allowed.
      (6)   There shall be no overnight accommodations provided for customers
or their guests.
      (7)   Ceremony venues shall not generate noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, or endangers the comfort or peace of any persons, or precludes their
enjoyment of property or affects their property’s value.
      (8)   Hours of operation. All use of the ceremony venue, including
parking of vehicles, shall cease within 1/2 hour after sunset.
      (9)   The applicant shall provide information in the application for the
permit, and as requested by the city for permit review, regarding the
ceremonies provided by the venue. Information shall include the number of
attendees per ceremony, number of ceremonies per year, number of employees,
hours of operation, parking facilities, sanitary facilities, lighting, sound
amplification, temporary structures/tents, signage, screening, and landscaping.
As deemed necessary, the City Council may restrict the operation of the venue.
      (10)   Off-street parking shall be required in the ratio of 1 parking
space for each 3 seats. The off-street parking area and the number of parking
spaces shall be shown on a site plan to be submitted with the application.
      (11)   A transportation management plan shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator at the time of application. This plan shall address traffic
control, including traffic movement to the public street system and impact on
the surrounding roadways.
      (12)   A grading, drainage and erosion control plan shall be submitted if
required by the Zoning Administrator. The standards of the Watershed Management
Organization or Watershed District and the Washington Conservation District
must be met.
      (13)   Landscaping may be required to be installed to buffer the use from
the adjacent land uses and to provide screening. A landscape plan shall be
submitted at the time of application for an interim use permit, if required by
the Zoning Administrator.
      (14)   Signage shall comply with the following requirements in addition
to conforming to the general standards set forth in §§
159.180 through
159.205: one sign up to 16 square feet is permitted per ceremony venue. The
sign shall not be electronic and it shall not be internally, externally or
indirectly illuminated.
(Ord. 7539, passed 5-21-2013; Am. Ord. 7544, passed 4-21-2015)
§ 159.118 OUTSIDE USES ACCESSORY TO RESTAURANTS AND SIMILAR RETAIL USES IN THE
RETAIL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent is to establish regulations
for outside uses accessory to restaurants and similar retail uses in the retail
business district.
   (B)   Required permits. A conditional use permit or interim use permit,
along with a certificate of compliance, is required for outside uses accessory
to restaurants and similar retail uses in the retail business district.
   (C)   Outside uses accessory to restaurants and similar retail uses in the
retail business district.
      (1)   Performance standards. The standards for outside uses accessory to
restaurants and similar retail uses in the retail business district include,
but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Noise-related restrictions.
            1.   Outside uses must comply with all noise requirements set forth
by this code.
            2.   The city's noise ordinance provides restrictions on noise that
may be generated from an outside use, including but not limited to the
following: between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., if a noise from a musical
instrument, radio, or other device for the production or reproduction of sound
is plainly audible at the property line of the structure in which the device is
located, or at a distance of 50 feet if the source is located outside, it shall
be prima facie evidence of a violation.
            3.   Outside speakers/amplifiers are limited to low volume and
facing away from the adjacent residential uses.
            4.   No outside speakers are allowed to be used after 10:00 p.m.
            5.   No live music is allowed outside after 10:00 p.m.
            6.   No music that can be heard beyond the property line adjacent
to residential uses is allowed.
            7.   No TV's or other visual media are allowed outside.
            8.   Time restrictions for noise related to cleaning and
preparation activities for the outside uses shall be the same as for the use of
residential maintenance equipment. These activities are allowed only after 7:30
a.m. on weekdays and after 9:30 a.m. on weekends.
         (b)   Location restrictions.
            1.   The location of the outside uses is restricted to the east
side of the buildings in the Retail Business District (RBD), to screen the uses
from the residential uses to the west.
            2.   An exception to this restriction may be allowed for a new
building constructed in the RBD that does not face east, if the impacts to the
adjacent residential uses to the west are effectively managed so that they are
minimal. A separate conditional use permit shall be required for outside uses
allowed under this exception.
            3.   Minimum conditions include an 8-foot tall solid barrier
between the outside use and the adjacent residential uses to the west, and
additional conditions necessary to ensure minimal impacts on the adjacent
residential uses to the west.
            4.   The outdoor use areas shall conform to the areas delineated on
a site plan and the uses shall be contained within the appropriate enclosed
areas at all times.
         (c)   Lighting restrictions.
            1.   All lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential uses
by the building or a solid barrier.
            2.   Lighting for the outside use areas shall be limited to down-
lit shielded fixtures and mounted to the building, unless otherwise approved by
the city.
         (d)   Activity restrictions.
            1.   The activities that are allowed in the outside use areas are
limited to: seating, eating, smoking of tobacco and e-cigarettes, consumption
of beverages (including alcohol with appropriate licensing), live music and
recorded music.
            2.   If an outside use area is to be used only as a smoking patio,
no food or beverage service will be allowed.
            3.   All sales related to a restaurant/bar use are to be contained
inside the building.
            4.   All preparation of food and beverages is to occur inside the
building.
            5.   A special event involving outside food preparation may be
allowed within the standards for temporary outdoor sales and events. (These
standards have been developed and recommended by the Planning Commission for
approval by the Council).
            6.   There shall be a specific limit placed on the seating capacity
of the outdoor use area.
         (e)   Time restrictions. The hours during which the outside uses are
allowed shall be limited. Outside uses are not allowed before 6:00 a.m. Outside
uses are allowed until 10:30 p.m. Sunday to Thursday and until 11:30 p.m.
Friday and Saturday.
         (f)   Enclosure requirement. If the outside use includes the serving
of alcohol, the outside use area must be enclosed by a permanent or temporary
barrier (railing, fence, chain, wall) approved by the city. Alcohol cannot be
taken outside of the outside use area, except if taken inside the building.
         (g)   Other requirements.
            1.   The outside use area shall contain appropriate receptacles to
dispose of tobacco products and waste.
            2.   All necessary building and site improvements shall be in place
before any outside use is allowed.
            3.   The business owner is expected to keep the adjacent
residential area and off-street parking areas free of tobacco products and
other debris.
            4.   An outside use requires a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) or
Interim Use Permit (IUP) and a city permit. If a CUP is approved, it shall be
reviewed for compliance on an annual basis, or as the City Council deems
necessary, to ensure compliance with the conditions of the CUP. If an IUP is
approved, the expiration date of an IUP shall be set a maximum of 1 year beyond
the approval date.
         (h)   Extension of outside use area. The extension of the outside use
area beyond the north or south end of an east-facing building would require a
conditional use permit/interim use permit that would involve the placing of
additional conditions on the use. Any extension of the outside use area beyond
the north or south end of the building would, at minimum, require the
installation of an 8 foot tall solid barrier extending beyond the end of the
building, in line with and parallel to the east face of the building, to screen
the use from the adjacent residential uses to the west.
(Ord. 7541, passed 1-21-2014)
MOBILE HOMES AND PARKS
§ 159.130 MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Applicability. The application of the provisions of this section shall
be only in those cases where a mobile home or manufactured home does not comply
with the established zoning and Building Codes adopted by the city allowing
same to be placed within districts within the city. No person shall park or
occupy a mobile home (see definition in §
159.007) on the premises of a lot in any district of the city with any occupied
dwelling or on any land which is situated outside of an approved mobile home
park, except as is listed below.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 731.01) (Am. Ord. 7433, passed 9-21-1982)
   (B)   Mobile home parks and sales yard. A mobile home may be placed within
an existing approved mobile home park or sales yard.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 731.02)
   (C)   Care facilities. A mobile home may be permitted by city permit in an
agricultural district or an R-1 Residential District if the Zoning
Administrator finds that the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The mobile home will be an accessory dwelling unit:
         (a)   To be occupied by persons who are infirm to the extent that they
require extraordinary care; and
         (b)   Such care can only be provided, without great economic hardship,
by family members residing in the principal dwelling house on the premises; and
         (c)   The infirmity and the need for care required by divisions (C)(1)
(a) and (b) above shall be shown by written statement of a physician.
      (2)   The city permit is so conditioned that it will expire and terminate
at such time as the care facility is no longer the residence of the person or
persons suffering from the infirmity which requires such care, or at such time
as such care is no longer required;
      (3)   At the time of termination of the city permit, the mobile home care
facility shall be removed from the premises within 30 days when practical; and
      (4)   The city permit is so conditioned so as to be reviewed annually by
the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 731.03)
   (D)   Temporary farm dwelling. A mobile home may be permitted by city permit
in an agricultural district if the Zoning Administrator finds the following
conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The mobile home will be an accessory dwelling unit located on a
farm of at least 75 acres in size;
      (2)   The mobile home will be occupied by persons who are:
         (a)   Members of the family of the persons occupying the principal
dwelling house on the premises; and
         (b)   Engaged in the occupation of farming on the premises as partners
or other business associates of the persons living in the principal dwelling
house on the premises; and who earn 50% or more of their annual gross income
for federal income tax purposes from farming on the premises.
      (3)   The city permit is so conditioned that it will expire and terminate
at such time as the persons occupying the mobile home are no longer engaged in
farming on the premises as required by division (D)(2)(b) above;
      (4)   At the time of termination of the city permit, the mobile home
temporary farm dwelling shall be removed from the premises within 30 days when
practical; and
      (5)   The city permit is conditioned so as to be reviewed annually by the
Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 731.04)
   (E)   Temporary construction office. A mobile home may be permitted with a
city permit in any district if the Zoning Administrator finds the following
conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The mobile home will be utilized as a field headquarters for
directing the ongoing construction of a project;
      (2)   Only 1 mobile home shall be permitted on each project;
      (3)   The mobile home has adequate sanitary facilities or the site shall
have temporary sanitary facilities installed;
      (4)   The mobile home and parking spaces shall adhere to all setbacks for
the zoning district and shall only utilize the permitted access driveway;
      (5)   The mobile home shall not be used as a dwelling unit;
      (6)   The city permit is issued only after the building permit has been
issued. The mobile home shall not be placed on the construction site until both
a city permit and a building permit have been issued;
      (7)   The permit shall expire when construction is completed or within
180 days from the date of issuance, whichever is less. Renewal of such a permit
may be approved by the Zoning Administrator; and
      (8)   The mobile home shall be removed within 30 days of the permit
termination.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 731.05)
   (F)   Temporary dwelling unit during construction. A mobile home may be
permitted by a city permit in any residential or agricultural district if the
Zoning Administrator finds the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The mobile home will be utilized as a temporary dwelling unit by
the present or potential occupant of a single-family residence during the
construction, reconstruction, or alteration of the residency by the present or
potential occupant;
      (2)   The mobile home shall have adequate sanitary facilities as
prescribed by the City Building Official/Sanitarian;
      (3)   The city permit is issued only after the building permit has been
obtained for the proposed construction;
      (4)   The mobile home and parking spaces shall adhere to all setbacks for
the zoning district and shall only utilize the permitted access driveways; and
      (5)   The permit shall expire when construction is completed or within
180 days from the date of issuance, whichever is less. Renewal of the permit
may be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 731.06)
   (G)   Standards. All mobile homes permitted under this section shall meet or
exceed the current federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards. The
mobile home shall have a sanitary sewer treatment and disposal system in
compliance with Chapter 4 of the Washington County Development Code and the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and Health Department.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 731.07)
   (H)   Accessory unit.  When the mobile home is utilized as an accessory
dwelling unit to the principal dwelling unit, the placement of the mobile home
is subject to the same zoning district dimensional setbacks as the principal
unit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 731.08)
   (I)   Driveway. Mobile homes utilized as accessory dwelling units shall use
the existing road access driveway of the principal dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 731.09)
   (J)   Distance between structures. Mobile homes utilized as accessory
dwelling units shall be separated by a minimum horizontal distance of 40 feet
from any other structure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 731.10)
   (K)   Anchors. Mobile homes utilized as accessory dwelling units shall have
ground anchors or tie- downs as approved by the State Mobile Home Code.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 731.11)
§ 159.131 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Intent. The intent and purpose of this section is to assure quality
development equal to that found in other types of residential areas throughout
the city. Excellence of design, development, and maintenance is the desired
objective.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 732.01)
   (B)   "Mobile" designation.  Any dwelling unit which is not designed for
easy and ready travel on the highway and which is intended rather for special
transport to a site for permanent or semi-permanent occupancy affixed on a lot
to the ground in some manner may be considered as a relocated, permanent
structure subject to zoning and Building Code regulations applied to
conventional construction. The Planning Advisory Commission shall determine if
a dwelling unit is "mobile" or is to be considered as a permanent structure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 732.02)
   (C)   Permit required. No person shall attempt to develop or operate a
mobile home park within the city without first obtaining a conditional use
permit therefor. The requirements of a conditional use permit shall prevail
over all other standards and requirements, notwithstanding the more restrictive
sections of this chapter. A conditional use permit for a mobile home park may
contain other requirements beyond those mentioned in this section.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 732.03)
   (D)   Permit application. The application for a conditional use permit, in
addition to other requirements, shall include the name and address of the
developer and a general description of the construction schedule and
construction cost. The application for a conditional use permit shall be
accompanied by 12 copies of plans which indicate the following:
      (1)   Location and size of the mobile home park;
      (2)   Location, size, and character of all mobile home lots, mobile home
stands, storage areas, recreation areas, laundry drying areas, central refuse
disposal, roadways, parking spaces and sites, and all setback dimensions;
      (3)   Detailed landscaping plans and specifications;
      (4)   Location and width of sidewalks;
      (5)   Plans for sanitary sewage disposal, surface drainage, water
systems, electrical service, telephone service, and gas service;
      (6)   Plans for an overhead street lighting system shall be submitted for
approval by the City Engineer;
      (7)   The method of disposing of garbage and refuse;
      (8)   Location and size of all streets abutting the mobile home park and
all driveways from such streets to the park;
      (9)   Plans and specifications for all road construction either within
the park or directly related to park operation;
      (10)   Floor plans of all service buildings to be constructed within the
mobile home park;
      (11)   Such other information as may be required or requested by the
city; and
      (12)   Detailed description of maintenance procedures and grounds
supervision.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 732.04)
   (E)   Application fees. The applicant shall pay to the city an application
fee as set forth in §
33.01 at the time the application is filed. When a permit is issued hereunder,
the applicant shall pay an amount per lot as set forth in §
33.01. If only a portion of a proposed park is constructed at a time, the fee
shall be paid for the lots in the portion being constructed, but the initial
construction shall include at least 50 lots.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 732.05)
   (F)   Performance standards for mobile home parks.
      (1)   A mobile home park shall contain at least 150 fully developed lots.
A minimum of 50 mobile home stands must be fully developed, together with all
required auxiliary buildings and areas, before any mobile home may be occupied.
      (2)   All mobile homes shall be properly connected to a central water
supply and a public sanitary sewer system. All water and sewer systems shall be
constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the City
Engineer. Where a public water supply is available to the mobile home park or
at the boundary of the park, a connection to the public water supply shall be
provided for each mobile home. All water supply and sanitation facilities must
conform to the current regulations in Chapter 4 of the Washington County
Development Code.
      (3)   All mobile home parks shall have 1 or more recreational areas,
which shall be easily accessible to all park residents. Recreational areas
shall be so located as to be free of traffic hazards and should, where the
topography permits, be centrally located. The size of the recreational area
shall be based upon a minimum of 15% of the land area (exclusive of streets),
but no outdoor recreational area shall contain less than 2,000 square feet. All
equipment installed in such an area shall be owned and maintained by the owner
or operator at that owner or operator's own expense.
      (4)   Each mobile home park shall maintain a paved off-street overload
parking lot for guests of occupants in the amount of 1 space for each 3 coach
sites and located within 300 feet of the unit to be served.
      (5)   All utilities, such as sewer, water, fuel, electric, telephone
antenna lead-ins, shall be buried to a depth specified by the City Engineer,
and there shall be no overhead wires or support poles except those essential
for street or other lighting purposes. All utility connections shall be
approved by the Zoning Administrator prior to connection and electrical service
shall be at least 110 volt, 50 ampere capacity. Plans for the disposal of
surface stormwater shall be approved by the City Engineer.
      (6)   A properly landscaped area shall be adequately maintained around
each mobile home park. All mobile home parks located adjacent to industrial or
commercial land uses shall be provided with screening, such as fences or
natural growth, along the property boundary lines separating the park from such
adjacent nonresidential uses.
      (7)   No mobile home, off-street parking space, or building shall be
located within 30 feet of the exterior boundary of any mobile home park. No
mobile home shall be located within 125 feet of the existing or planned
centerline of a public street.
      (8)   Signs shall be limited to 1 nameplate or identification sign not to
exceed 25 square feet, with lighting, height, and location as approved by the
Zoning Administrator, and have a 15-foot setback from the front line.
      (9)   The area beneath all mobile homes shall be enclosed with a material
that shall be generally uniform throughout the entire mobile home park, except
that such an enclosure must be so constructed that it is subject to reasonable
inspection. No obstruction shall be permitted that impedes the inspection of
plumbing, electrical facilities, and related mobile home equipment.
      (10)   Each mobile home lot shall be served by a central fuel supply
system such as natural gas or a central LP system. No separate private fuel
containers, such as fuel oil tanks or LP tanks, shall be allowed in the mobile
home park.
      (11)   All mobile home parks shall have an area or areas set aside for
dead storage. Boats, boat trailers, hauling trailers, and all other equipment
not generally stored within the mobile home or within the utility enclosure,
that may be provided, shall be stored in a separate place provided by the park
owner. This storage place shall be screened. The equipment shall not be stored
upon a mobile home lot which is occupied by a mobile home nor upon the street
within the mobile home park.
      (12)   Each mobile home lot within a mobile home park shall abut on and
have access to a private road used by the inhabitants of the park and built and
maintained by the owner thereof. This road shall lead to and furnish ingress
and egress from a public street through controlled driveways, which shall have
a right-of-way at least 60 feet in width. The private roads and access roads to
public streets shall be paved with a concrete or a bituminous material
complying with the specifications for the construction of any city street. The
paved surface shall be at least 36 feet in width from curb to curb. A concrete
curb and gutter shall comply with all applicable city ordinances. There shall
also be a paved 3-foot wide walkway from the slab to the frontage curb. Access
drives off roads to all parking spaces and mobile home slab sites shall be
paved.
      (13)   Each mobile home park shall have 1 or more central city buildings
with central heating, which must be maintained in a safe, clean, and sanitary
condition. The buildings shall be adequately lighted during all hours of
darkness and shall contain laundry washers, dryers and drying areas, public
telephones and public mail boxes, in addition to public toilets and lavatory.
For each 100 mobile home lots or fractional part thereof, there shall be 1
flush toilet and 1 lavatory for each sex.
      (14)   Every structure in the mobile home park shall be developed and
maintained in a safe, approved, and substantial manner. The exterior of every
such structure shall be kept in good repair and shall be repainted or
refinished when so directed by the City Building Inspector. All of the
structures must be constructed to meet existing city codes. Portable fire
extinguishers rated for electrical and liquid fires shall be kept in all
service buildings and other locations conveniently and readily accessible for
use by all occupants.
      (15)   All structures shall require a building permit. It is not the
intent of this section to repeal or abrogate any part of the Building Code. The
provisions of this section shall be enforced in addition to and in conjunction
with the provisions of the Building Code.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 732.06)
   (G)   Mobile home park lots.
      (1)   Each mobile home site shall contain at least 6,000 square feet of
land area for the exclusive use of the occupant and shall be at least 60 feet
wide, which size site allows for a maximum length mobile home of 55 feet.
Larger mobile homes will require longer lots to comply with the following
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Mobile homes shall be placed upon mobile home lots so that there
shall be at least a 20-foot clearance between mobile homes and 20 feet between
the front of the mobile home and the front lot line and 25 feet between the
rear of the mobile home and the rear lot line. Mobile homes shall be parked no
closer than 10 feet to a side lot line.
      (3)   The area occupied by a mobile home shall not exceed 50% of the
total area of a mobile home site; land may be occupied by a mobile home, a
vehicle, a building, a cabana, a ramada, a carport, an awning, storage closet
or cupboard, or any structure.
      (4)   The yards shall be landscaped except for necessary driveway and
sidewalk needs which shall not exceed 1/2 the width of the site. Landscaping
shall include at least 1 tree, hedges, grass, fences, windbreaks, and the like.
Temporary storage shall not be allowed in the lawn area.
      (5)   Each mobile home lot shall have paved off-street parking space for
at least 2 automobiles. Each space shall be 10 feet by 20 feet minimum or as
approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   The corners of each mobile home lot shall be clearly marked and
each site shall be numbered.
      (7)   Each mobile home lot shall be so designed that automobiles may not
be parked within 5 feet of the side of any mobile home or within 5 feet of the
front or back of the mobile home.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 732.07)
   (H)   Mobile home stands.  The area of the mobile home stand shall be
improved to provide adequate support for the placement and tie-down of the
mobile home, thereby securing the superstructure against uplift, sliding,
rotation, and overturning.
      (1)   The mobile home stands shall not heave, shift, or settle unevenly
under the weight of the mobile home, due to frost action, inadequate drainage,
vibration, or other forces acting upon the structure.
      (2)   The mobile home stand shall be provided with anchors and tie-downs,
such as cast-in-place concrete foundations or runways, screw augers, arrowhead
anchors, or other devices providing for stability of the mobile home.
      (3)   Anchors and tie-downs shall be placed at least at each corner of
the mobile home stand, and each anchor shall be able to sustain a minimum
tensile strength of 2,800 pounds or as approved by the current Minnesota State
Uniform Mobile Home Standards Code, whichever is more restrictive.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 732.08)
   (I)   Operating conditions.
      (1)   The mobile home park office shall be clearly marked and illuminated
during all hours of darkness. An illuminated map of the park noting all roads
and location of each unit shall be displayed outside and adjacent to the
office.
      (2)   An adult caretaker must be on duty at all times in the mobile home
park.
      (3)   The operator of every mobile home park shall maintain a register in
the office of the park indicating the name and address of each permanent
resident of the park, and the make, type, license, and serial number of each
mobile home and automobile of each permanent resident, and the date of arrival
and departure of each mobile home. This information shall be kept for at least
3 years after date occupant departs from park and shall be available at all
times to law enforcement officers, health authorities and all other officials
whose duties necessitate the acquisition of information contained in the
register.
      (4)   All land areas shall be adequately drained and properly maintained
free of dust, refuse, garbage, rubbish, or debris. The proposed method of
garbage, waste, and trash disposal must be approved by the city and must
conform to the regulations of the State Pollution Control Agency. Refuse
collection stands shall be provided for all refuse containers. The stands shall
be so designed as to prevent containers from being tipped, to minimize spillage
and container deterioration and to facilitate cleaning around them. The
storage, collection, and disposal of refuse in the mobile home park shall be so
conducted as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding
areas, accident or fire hazards, or air pollution.
      (5)   No mobile homes shall be located in the mobile home park that do
not conform to the requirements of the most current Minnesota State Uniform
Mobile Home Standards Code and has the State Seal of Compliance affixed to it.
No mobile home shall be allowed therein which is in an unsanitary condition, or
which has an exterior in bad repair, or which is structurally unsound, or which
fails to protect the inhabitants of the mobile home against all the elements.
      (6)   No person shall erect, place, construct, reconstruct, relocate,
alter, maintain, use, or occupy a structure in a mobile home park without the
written consent of the owner or operator of the park.
      (7)   Dogs and animals shall not be permitted to run at large within the
mobile home park.
      (8)   No public address or loud speaker system shall be permitted.
      (9)   No tents shall be erected or occupied, and there shall be no
outdoor camping anywhere in the trailer park.
      (10)   Laundry and clothes shall be hung out to dry only on lines located
in approved areas established and maintained exclusively for that purpose.
      (11)   No person shall bring or keep an automobile into the mobile home
park that does not have a current license and is not in operable condition.
      (12)   Land in the mobile home park shall be used for residential
purposes only.
      (13)   Notification to the City Building Inspector shall be made 24 hours
in advance of the occupancy of any mobile home not now occupied whether on a
lot heretofore occupied or not, for purposes of inspection for compliance with
plumbing and electrical and other requirements. A fee as set forth in §
33.01 shall be paid as the inspection fee for inspection of the mobile home and
hook-ups.
      (14)   Each mobile home shall be equipped with an approved fire
extinguisher.
      (15)   No open fires shall be permitted within the park and no fires in
burners or incinerators shall be left unattended at any time. The operator
shall provide safe, adequate incinerator service in full compliance with any
state laws or local ordinances pertaining thereto.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 732.09)
   (J)   Inspection.
      (1)   On or before January 10 of each year following the first 12-month
period that a permit has been in force under this chapter, the operator shall
pay an annual inspection fee to the city. Such inspection fee shall be as set
forth in §
33.01. Occupancy of lots for determining this fee shall be as of January l.
      (2)   All mobile home parks established prior to the adoption of this
chapter shall be subject to inspection provisions of this chapter and shall pay
the inspection fee provided in division (J)(1) of this section commencing
January 1 of the year following adoption of this chapter. Before any
enlargement, intensification or alteration of such pre-existing mobile home
parks may occur, application for and approval of a conditional use permit must
be completed. Any such enlargement, intensification, or alteration shall be
treated as a new park, and the same rules and regulations of this section shall
apply.
      (3)   Periodic inspections by the City Zoning Administrator of the entire
park and all its facilities may be required. Utility and heating facilities may
be inspected at least once every 6 months.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 732.10)
   (K)   Noncompliance. Failure to comply with any provision or requirement of
this chapter or with any provision or requirement imposed upon the mobile home
park or owner or operator by the terms of the permit or the terms of any
contract, agreement, or stipulation entered into or imposed by the city as part
of or in connection with the permit shall be cause of revocation of the mobile
home park permit by the city after 10-day mailed notice of violation and time
and place of hearing to the owner and operator and a hearing by the City
Council. Compliance with the terms of this chapter shall be a condition
precedent to the issuance of a state license and shall run with the license so
as to be an essential part thereof. Upon revocation of a permit by the city, no
further occupancy of the mobile homes in the park shall be allowed, but the
city may allow a reasonable time for termination of occupancy. This section
shall apply in all respects to any violation of provisions previously in effect
that continue to control existing occupied mobile home park areas.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 732.11)
§ 159.133 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A recreational vehicle of the type generally used temporarily as
living quarters during the hunting, fishing, or vacation season and duly
licensed and registered under the laws of the state may be parked on
residential property in the city; provided, however, that the camper or travel
trailer shall not, while so parked, be used as a permanent human dwelling
place, living abode, or living quarters.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 733.01)
   (B)   (1)   A recreational vehicle parked on a lot within an agricultural or
residential district shall comply with all parking and building setbacks for
the zoning district and shall only utilize the existing permitted access
driveway into the site.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle may not be parked on any land outside of an
approved trailer park or an approved sales lot, except that the parking of 1
unoccupied recreational vehicle, less than 45 feet in length, in an accessory
private garage, building, or in the rear yard of a residential district is
permitted, provided that no living quarters shall be maintained or any business
practices in the trailer while it is so parked or stored.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 733.02)
   (C)   A recreational vehicle of the type described in division (A) above and
owned by a nonresident guest or visitor may be parked or occupied by the guest
or visitor to be parked upon the homeowner's homestead property while occupied
by the guest or visitor for a period of time not to exceed 30 days in any 1
calendar year. Any homeowner utilizing this provision for the benefit of his or
her guest or guests shall notify the City Clerk of the date or dates of such
occupancy of a travel trailer or camper upon his or her property by his or her
guests. The notice shall be provided by the homeowner to the City Clerk no
later than 5 days after the occupancy of a camper or travel trailer upon his or
her property has begun. The homeowner shall also specify to the City Clerk the
dates upon which the travel trailer or camper shall be used and the date of
termination of the use. The recreational vehicle shall have self-contained
sanitary facilities or standard on-site facilities as required by the City
Building Official/Sanitarian.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 733.03)
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator may, upon application, grant a city permit
for the use of a residential trailer or similar portable unit for temporary
residential purposes within the city in conjunction with a home construction
project that is underway; provided, however, that a duly authorized and valid
building permit shall have been approved by the City Building Official prior to
the application for a city permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 733.04)
   (E)   The applicant for the city permit shall file an application with the
Zoning Administrator setting forth the area in which the trailer is to be
located, together with a copy of the building permit for the home to be
constructed on the property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 733.05)
   (F)   The term of the city permit shall not exceed 120 days or upon
completion of construction of the residential home in question, whichever comes
first.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 733.06)
   (G)   The Zoning Administrator may attach such conditions and obligations to
the issuance of the city permit, as it deems necessary to protect the health,
safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 733.07)
§ 159.133 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Recreational vehicle park operation. No person, firm, or corporation
shall develop or operate any recreational vehicle park without having first
obtained a conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 734.01)
   (B)   Application. The application for a conditional use permit, in addition
to the requirements, shall indicate the name and address of the developer and a
general description of the construction schedule and construction costs. The
application for a conditional use permit shall be accompanied by 12 copies of
plans, which indicate the following:
      (1)   Location and size of recreational vehicle park;
      (2)   Location and size of all vehicle lots, dead storage areas,
recreation areas, laundry drying areas, roadways, parking spaces and sites, and
all setback dimensions;
      (3)   Detailed landscaping plans and specifications;
      (4)   Detailed grading plan with 2-foot contour intervals;
      (5)   Plans for sanitary sewage disposal, surface drainage, water
systems, electrical service, and gas service;
      (6)   Plans for an overhead street lighting system shall be submitted for
approval by the City Engineer;
      (7)   The method of disposing of garbage and refuse;
      (8)   Location, size, and character of each lot;
      (9)   Location and size of all streets abutting the recreational vehicle
park;
      (10)   Road construction plans and specifications;
      (11)   Plans for any and all structures; and
      (12)   Such other information as may be required or requested by the
city.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 734.02)
   (C)   Designation of uses. The recreational vehicle park design shall
designate specific areas for primitive tent camping, recreation vehicles, and
trailers.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 734.03)
   (D)   Recreational vehicle lots.  On any recreational vehicle park lot, the
placement of recreational vehicles shall conform to all setback and other
requirements of the zoning district in which the lot is located.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 734.04)
   (E)   Performance standards for recreational vehicle parks.
      (1)   All water supply and sanitary facilities must conform to the
current recommendations in Chapter 4 of the Washington County Development Code
and those of the Minnesota Department of Health and Pollution Control Agency.
      (2)   All recreational vehicle parks shall have at least 20% of the land
area (exclusive of internal streets) developed for recreational use (i.e.,
tennis courts, children's play equipment, swimming pools, golf greens, and the
like) which shall be developed and maintained by the owner or operator at that
owner or operator's own expense. All parks must have an area or areas set aside
for dead storage and "overload" parking. Open air drying of laundry and clothes
shall be allowed only in approved areas established and maintained exclusively
for that purpose.
      (3)   All utilities, such as sewer, water, fuel, electric, telephone, and
television antenna lead-ins, shall be buried to a depth specified by the City
Engineer, and there shall be no overhead wires or support poles except those
essential for street or other lighting purposes. All utility connections shall
be approved by the city prior to connection. Plans for the disposal of surface
stormwater shall be approved by the City Engineer.
      (4)   All land area shall be adequately drained and properly maintained
free of dust, refuse, garbage, rubbish, or debris. The proposed method of
garbage, waste, and trash disposal must be approved by the City Council and
must meet or exceed the current Minnesota Department of Health Standards.
      (5)   All structures shall require a building permit. It is not the
intent of this section to repeal or abrogate any part of the Building Code. The
provisions of this section shall be enforced in addition to and in conjunction
with the provisions of the Building Code.
      (6)   The source of fuel for cooking, eating, or other purposes of each
lot shall be approved by the City Council. Periodic inspection of the entire
park by the City Zoning Administrator may be required.
      (7)   A properly landscaped area shall be adequately maintained around
each recreational vehicle park. No trailer or building shall be located within
20 feet of the exterior boundary of any park or within 40 feet of any exterior
existing public road right-of-way.
      (8)   Each park shall contain at least 30 fully developed lots. Access to
the parks shall be provided as required by the City Zoning Administrator. The
access streets shall be paved in accordance with minimum specifications
required for the construction of any city street.
      (9)   Advertising shall be limited to 1 sign, not to exceed 24 square
feet, with lighting, height, and location as approved by the City Council.
      (10)   Each park must have 1 or more central city buildings with central
heating, which must be maintained in a safe, clean, and sanitary condition. The
buildings shall be adequately lighted during all hours of darkness and shall
contain laundry washers, dryers and drying areas, in addition to public toilets
and lavatory. Each park shall have a building for the use of the operator
distinctly marked "Office," and such marking shall be illuminated during all
hours of darkness. An illuminated map of the park shall be displayed at the
office.
      (11)   An adult caretaker must be on duty at all times in the park. The
operator of every park shall maintain a register in the office of the park
indicating the name and address of the owner and occupants of each vehicle, the
license number of each recreational vehicle and automobile of each occupant,
and the date of arrival and departure of each recreational vehicle. The corners
of each lot shall be clearly marked and each lot shall be numbered. The grounds
of the park shall be adequately lighted from sunset to sunrise.
      (12)   No dogs or animals shall be permitted to run at large within the
park. No public address or loud speaker system will be permitted.
      (13)   No recreational vehicle park shall be located so that drainage
from the park or camp area will endanger any water supply. All parks shall be
well drained. No portion of the park shall be located in an area subject to
flooding. No wastewater from the recreational vehicles shall be deposited on
the surface of the ground.
      (14)   Each lot shall abut or face a driveway or clear unoccupied space
of not less than 16 feet in width, which shall have unobstructed access to the
internal park road system.
      (15)   Lots shall be designed to allow an open space of at least 50 feet
between each vehicle or tent and at least 30 feet between the vehicle or tent
and the front lot line abutting the interior park road system.
      (16)   Each lot shall have 200 square feet of off-street parking space or
as approved by the Zoning Administrator, for 2 automobiles. No parking spaces
shall be closer than 10 feet to any side yard lot line.
      (17)   Each lot, or pair of lots, shall contain adequate containers to
store, collect, and dispose of refuse and garbage so as not to create any
health hazards, rodent damage, insect breeding, accident or hazardous fire
areas or air pollution. Each lot, or pair of lots, shall have an insect-proof,
water-tight, rodent-proof container on the lot(s).
      (18)   Each lot shall be no further than 400 feet from the nearest,
readily available drinking water supply.
      (19)   Each lot with an individual water system connection shall have a
water supply capable of supplying 100 gallons of water per site per day.
      (20)   All recreational vehicle park projects shall be equipped with at
least 1 central toilet, bathing and laundry building, which meets or exceeds
the requirements of the Minnesota Department of Health, except that in
primitive tent camping areas, only toilet facilities shall be required as per
the Minnesota Department of Health.
      (21)   Outdoor cooking or burning shall be confined to fireplaces, pits,
grills, or stoves that shall be permanently affixed to a designated location on
each lot as per the site plan. Each permanent cooking or burning facility shall
be placed on the lot so as to minimize fire hazards and smoke nuisance.
      (22)   Incineration of refuse, garbage, or other wastes shall not be
permitted within any recreational vehicle park.
      (23)   All centralized refuse collection containers and equipment and
park maintenance equipment shall be stored in a screened and fenced service
yard within the park.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 734.05)
§ 159.134 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Purpose and authority. M.S. §§ 327.31 through 327.35, as they may be
amended from time to time, govern installation and regulation of manufactured
homes in residential areas of municipalities. Authorization has been granted to
the municipalities by the legislature to regulate by ordinance the location,
height, width, bulk, and type of foundation of the manufactured (mobile home).
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 750.01)
   (B)   Locations where permitted. Manufactured homes shall be permitted in
any district of the city wherein a single-family dwelling would be permitted
under the following conditions:
      (1)   The manufactured home must be certified by the state pursuant to
the directives of the Minn. Rules, Chapter 1350, Manufactured Homes,1350.0100
through 1350.9200 and by directive of Minn. Rules, Chapter 1360, Prefabricated
Buildings, 1360.0100 through 1360.3600, as they may be amended from time to
time.
      (2)   The manufactured home must be anchored to a masonry foundation as
specified in the International Building Code, Appendix G Section G.501. That
foundation must encompass the entire perimeter of the manufactured home.
      (3)   The manufactured home must conform to the dimensional requirements
specified in §
159.041 which specified 960 feet of living area and 21 feet minimum width with
a continuous common roof.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 750.02) (Am. Ord. 7433, passed 9-21-1982)
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS; ACCESS; NUISANCES
§ 159.145 ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION.
   (A)   Applicability. All uses, buildings, and structures shall conform to
the regulations of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency relating to air,
water, noise, and solid wastes.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 707.01)
   (B)   Tributary pollution. No use shall be permitted which will cause or
result in the pollution of any tributary of the St. Croix River, Mississippi
River, any lake, stream, or other body of water in the city.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 707.02)
   (C)   Insecticides, herbicides. Chemical insecticides or herbicides shall be
stored, handled, and utilized as per the standards set forth by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 707.03)
§ 159.146 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No land shall be developed or altered and no use shall be permitted
that results in surface water runoff causing unreasonable flooding, erosion, or
deposit of minerals on adjacent properties or water bodies. Such runoff shall
be properly channeled into a storm drain, a natural watercourse or drainage
way, a ponding area, or other public facility.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 740.01)
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator, upon inspection of any site which has
created drainage problems or could create drainage problems with proposed new
development, may require the owner of the site or contractor to complete a
grading plan and apply for a grading permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 740.02)
   (C)   The owner or contractor of any natural drainage improvement or
alteration may be required by the Zoning Administrator to obtain
recommendations from the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, the Soil
Conservation Agent, the affected Watershed District(s), Water Management
Organization (WMO) and/or the City Engineer, as well as obtaining a local
grading permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 740.03)
   (D)   On any slope in excess of 13% where, in the opinion of the Zoning
Administrator or City Engineer, the natural drainage pattern may be disturbed
or altered, the Zoning Administrator may require the applicant to submit both a
grading plan and a soil conservation plan prior to applying for a building
permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 740.04)
   (E)   The owner or contractor of any natural drainage improvement or
alteration shall follow the recommendations of Washington County and the
affected watershed district, Water Management Organization (WMO), the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources, and the Soil Conservation Association and the
city concerning drainage and runoff.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 740.05)
§ 159.147 LAND RECLAMATION AND LAND GRADING.
   (A)   Within this chapter, land reclamation is the reclaiming of land by
depositing or moving material so as to alter the grade. Land reclamation shall
be permitted only by conditional use permit in all districts. Depositing a
total of more than 50 cubic yards of material per acre, either by hauling in or
re-grading the area, shall constitute land reclamation. Land reclamation in
floodplains shall be in accordance with the Floodplain Ordinance of
Chapter 154. The permit shall include as a condition thereof a finished grade
plan which will not adversely affect the adjacent land and as conditions
thereof shall regulate the type of material permitted, program for rodent
control, plan for fire control, and general maintenance of the site, controls
of vehicular ingress and egress, drainage and control of material disbursed
from wind, or hauling of material to or from the site.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 741.01)
   (B)   No person, partnership or association, private or public corporation,
county, municipality or other political subdivision shall appropriate or use
any public water, surface or underground, without first securing a use of
public waters permit and written permission of the Commissioner of the Division
of Waters, Soils and Minerals of the State Department of Natural Resources. For
purposes of these regulations, PUBLIC WATERS shall be as defined in M.S.
Chapter 103G, as it may be amended from time to time, and as follows:
      (1)   Public waters shall include all lakes, ponds, swamps, streams,
drainage ways, floodplains, floodways, natural watercourses, underground water
resources, and similar features involving directly or indirectly the use of
water within the city.
      (2)   No public water area shall be filled, partially filled, dredged,
altered by grading, mining or otherwise utilized or disturbed in any manner
without first securing a public waters use permit from the Minnesota Department
of Natural Resources and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and a grading permit
from the City Zoning Administrator. These grading permits shall be reviewed and
approved by the Department of Natural Resources, the City Engineer, the
Watershed District, Water Management Organization (WMO), the Planning
Commission and the City Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 741.02)
§ 159.148 SOIL CONSERVATION PLANS.
   (A)   On any development or land reclamation project with more than 1 acre
of soil, drainage patterns or vegetation cover that would be either destroyed
or disturbed by the construction process, the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit from the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency,
the City Zoning Administrator may require the owner or contractor on the
project to request the Soil Conservation District to prepare a Soil
Conservation Plan to protect the soil from erosion or sheet runoff for the
duration of the construction project and/or over the long-term occupancy of the
site.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 742.01)
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator may require a soil conservation plan on
projects which disturb less than 1 acre of soil, drainage patterns or
vegetation cover if, in the judgment of the Zoning Administrator, significant
soil erosion, vegetation destruction, or drainage damage may occur during the
construction process.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 742.02)
   (C)   A soil conservation plan shall consist of specific written
recommendations on how to protect the soil, vegetation, and drainage patterns
during the construction process. The Zoning Administrator may require
construction fencing along the edges of the construction area.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 742.03)
   (D)   Where construction of a structure is proposed on slopes of 13% to 18%,
the Zoning Administrator may require the applicant to provide a grading and
erosion control plan and may require a city permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 742.04)
   (E)   Where construction of a structure is proposed on slopes of 18% to 25%,
the Zoning Administrator shall require the applicant to provide a grading and
erosion control plan and a city permit prior to issuance of a building permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 742.05)
   (F)   The City Council may require the applicant to post a bond to ensure
the orderly completion of the grading and erosion control plan by a specific
date.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 742.06)
§ 159.149 MINING.
   All mining and related uses of land, including but not limited to the
excavation, removal or storage of sand, gravel, rock, clay, and other natural
deposits, are subject to the adopted standards, codes, ordinances and
regulations of the Planning Commission and/or City Council related to such
activities and all regulations in the Washington County Development Code,
Chapter 6 and the City of Lakeland Code,
Chapter 156, Mining Regulations.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 743.01)
§ 159.150 AGRICULTURAL OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. All agricultural operations in existence upon the
effective date of this chapter shall be a permitted use. However, all
regulations contained herein and other city ordinances in effect shall apply to
all changes of the agricultural operation which will cause all or part of the
area to become more intensively used or more urban in character. Setback and
other regulations shall apply to agricultural operations just as they do to
urban developments. Any agricultural building exceeding $1,000 in value erected
on a farm shall require a city permit and shall meet the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 744.01)
   (B)   Rural agricultural operations. Rural agricultural operations may occur
on parcels of 10 or more contiguous acres in agricultural districts. Rural
agricultural operations may include the production of farm crops, such as
vegetables, fruit trees, grain and other crops, and their storage on the area,
as well as for the raising thereon of farm poultry, domestic pets, and domestic
farm animals.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 744.02)
   (C)   Accessory uses. Rural agricultural operations may include necessary
accessory uses for treating, storing or producing retail farm market products;
provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory uses shall be
secondary to that of the primary agricultural activity.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 744.03)
   (D)   Exclusions; conditional use permits. Rural agricultural operations may
not include commercial livestock pen feeding (feedlots) without first receiving
a conditional use permit from the local City Council and a Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency feedlot permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 744.04)
   (E)   Garbage.  Commercial feeding operations shall not include the feeding
of garbage to swine or other animals.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 744.05)
   (F)   Suburban agricultural operations. Suburban agricultural operations may
occur on parcels of less than 10 contiguous acres in Agricultural or R-
1 Districts. Suburban agricultural operations may include the production of
crops such as fruit trees, shrubs, plants and flowers, and vegetables, provided
the produce is intended for the use of the residents on the property or sale
away from the property, or for temporary seasonal produce sales which require
no roadside stand.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 744.06)
   (G)   Domestic farm animals. Suburban agricultural operations may include
domestic farm animals, provided:
      (1)   The parcel is at least a nominal 5 acres in area with at least 2
acres of grazable acreage per animal (see §
159.114);
      (2)   An adequate animal shelter structure can be constructed; and
      (3)   A Minnesota Pollution Control Agency permit can be obtained by the
owner/applicant.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 744.07)
   (H)   Exceptions. Suburban agricultural operations shall not include the
raising of domestic farm animals (on parcels of less than 5 acres), roadside
stands for sale of products, process or packaging operations, or similar uses.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 744.08)
   (I)   Conditional use permit.  The City Council may require any farm
operation not located in an agricultural district to secure a conditional use
permit to continue the operations in the event of the following:
      (1)   A nuisance on a farm is adjacent to or within 100 feet of any
property line and may be detrimental to living conditions by emitting noise,
odor, vibrations, hazards to safety, and the like; and/or
      (2)   The farm operations are so intensive as to constitute an industrial
type use consisting of the compounding, processing, and packaging of products
for wholesale or retail trade and further, that the operations may tend to
become a permanent industrial type operation that cannot be terminated as can a
normal farming operation. Excessive trucking operations shall be considered as
intensive use.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 744.09)
§ 159.151 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   All uses associated with the bulk storage of over 2,000 gallons of soil,
gasoline, liquid fertilizer, chemicals, and similar liquids shall require a
conditional use permit in order that the Zoning Administrator may have
assurance that fire, explosion, or water or soil contamination hazards are not
present that would be detrimental to the public health, safety, and general
welfare. All existing, above-ground liquid storage tanks having a capacity in
excess of 2,000 gallons shall secure a conditional use permit within 12 months
following enactment of this chapter; the Zoning Administrator shall require the
development of diking around the tanks, suitably sealed, to hold a leakage
capacity equal to 115% of the tank capacity. Any existing storage tank that, in
the opinion of the Planning Advisory Commission, constitutes a hazard to the
public safety shall discontinue operations within 5 years following enactment
of this chapter (also see §
159.152).
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 715.01)
§ 159.152 EXPLOSIVES.
   No activities involving the storage, use, or manufacture of materials or
products which could decompose by detonation shall be permitted except as are
specifically permitted by the City Council. Such materials shall include but
not be confined to all primary explosives such as lead azide and mercury
fulminate, all high explosives and boosters such as TNT, tetryl and nitrates,
propellants and components thereof such as nitrocellulose, nitroglycerine,
blasting explosives such as dynamite and nuclear fuel, and reactor elements
such as uranium 235 and plutonium.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 716.01)
§ 159.153 SCREENING.
   (A)   Screening shall be required in residential zones where:
      (1)   Any off-street parking area contains more than 4 parking spaces and
is within 30 feet of an adjoining residential zone; and
      (2)   Where the driveway to a parking area of more than 6 parking spaces
is within 15 feet of an adjoining residential use or zone.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 708.01)
   (B)   Where any business or (structure, parking, or storage) is adjacent to
property zoned for residential use, that business or industry shall provide
screening along the boundary of the residential property. Screening shall also
be provided where a business, parking lot, or industry is across the street
from a residential zone, but not on the side of a business or industry
considered to be the front.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 708.02)
   (C)   All exterior storage shall be screened. The exceptions are:
      (1)   Merchandise being displayed for sale;
      (2)   Materials and equipment currently being used for construction on
the premises; and
      (3)   Merchandise located on service station pump islands.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 708.03)
   (D)   The screening required in this section shall consist of earth mounds,
berms, or ground forms; fences and walls; landscaping (plant materials) or
landscaped fixtures (such as timbers) used in combination or singularly so as
to block direct visual access to an object.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 708.04)
§ 159.154 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Landscaping on a lot shall consist of a finish grade and a soil
retention cover such as sod, seed, and mulch, plantings or as may be required
by the Zoning Administrator to protect the soil and aesthetic values on the lot
and adjacent property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 709.01)
   (B)   In all districts, all developed uses shall provide landscaping from
the urban curb and gutter to the road right-of-way lines. This landscaped yard
shall be kept clear of all structures, exterior storage, and off-street
parking.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 709.02)
   (C)   Landscaping shall be provided and maintained on all required front and
side yards in all developed districts except where pavement or crushed stone is
used for walkways or driveways.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 709.03)
§ 159.155 REASONABLE MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
   In all districts, all structures, landscaping, and fences shall be
reasonably maintained so as to avoid health and safety hazards and prevent
degradation in the value of adjacent property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 710.01)
§ 159.156 VEGETATIVE CUTTING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CLEAR CUTTING. Removal of all live vegetation in excess of 6 inches in
diameter at breast height on any area of 20,000 square feet or more in size.
      SELECTIVE CUTTING. The removal of single scattered live trees or shrubs
in excess of 6 inches in diameter at breast height.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 748.01)
   (B)   Clear cutting of vegetation shall not be permitted within any required
yard of any lot or parcel within any zoning use district.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 748.02)
   (C)   Clear cutting for commercial tree production purposes shall require a
conditional use permit in A-1 District (see §
159.043).
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 748.03)
   (D)   Selective tree cutting may occur on any lot provided: Any cutting on
slopes of greater than 18% shall require a Soil Conservation District
revegetation plan and a city permit prior to issuance of a building permit.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 748.04)
§ 159.157 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   It is the purpose of this section to encourage the use of lighting
systems that will reduce light pollution and promote energy conservation while
increasing nighttime safety, utility, security, and productivity.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the following:
         (a)   This section does not prohibit the use of temporary outdoor
lighting used during customary holiday seasons;
         (b)   This section does not prohibit the use of temporary outdoor
lighting used for civic celebrations and promotions;
         (c)   Lighting required by a government agency for the safe operation
of airplanes, or security lighting required on government buildings or
structures; or
         (d)   Emergency lighting by police, fire, and rescue authorities.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 711.01)
   (B)   Nonconforming uses. All outdoor lighting fixtures existing and legally
installed prior to May 15, 2001, the effective date of this section, are exempt
from regulations of this section but shall comply with the previous ordinance
requirement for glare as follows:
      (1)   Deflection of light. Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street
parking area, sign, or other structure shall be arranged as to deflect light
away from any adjoining residential zone or from the public streets. Direct or
sky-reflected glare, where from floodlights or from high temperature processes
such as combustion or welding, shall not be directed into any adjoining
property. The source of lights shall be hooded or controlled in some manner so
as not to light adjacent property. Bare incandescent light bulbs shall not be
permitted in view of adjacent property or public right-of-way. Any light or
combination of lights which cast light on a public street shall not exceed 1
foot-candle (meter reading) as measured from the centerline of the street. Any
light or combination of lights which cast light on residential property shall
not exceed 0.4 foot-candles (meter reading) as measured from the property.
      (2)   New fixtures. Whenever a light fixture that was existing on the
effective date of this chapter is replaced by a new outdoor light fixture, the
provisions of this section shall be complied with.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 711.02)
   (C)   Intensity. No light source or combination thereof which cast light on
a public street shall exceed 1 foot-candle meter reading as measured from the
centerline of the street, nor shall any light source or combination thereof
which cast light on adjacent property exceed 0.4 foot-candle as measured at the
property line.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 711.03)
   (D)   Method of measuring light intensity. The foot-candle level of a light
source shall be taken after dark with the light meter held 6 inches above the
ground with the meter facing the light source. A reading shall be taken with
the light source on, then with the light source off. The difference between the
2 readings will be identified as the light intensity.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 711.04)
   (E)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Residential/agricultural district standards. In all residential/
agricultural districts, any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking
area, structure, or area shall be arranged as to deflect light away from any
adjoining residential property or from any public right-of-way in accordance
with the following provisions:
         (a)   The light source shall be hooded or controlled so as not to
light adjacent property.
         (b)   Bare light bulbs shall not be permitted in view of adjacent
property or public right-of-way, unless part of a public street lighting
fixture.
      (2)   Commercial and industrial districts.  Any lighting used to
illuminate an off-street parking area, structure, or area shall be arranged so
as to deflect light away from any adjoining property or from any public right-
of-way in accordance with the following provisions:
         (a)   Shielding. The luminaries shall contain a cutoff, which directs
and cuts off the light at an angle of 90 degrees or less.
         (b)   Intensity.  Light sources shall not be permitted so as to light
adjacent property.
         (c)   Height. The maximum height above the ground grade permitted for
light sources mounted on a pole is 25 feet. A light source mounted on a
building shall not exceed the height of the building. In no case shall the
height of a light source mounted on a pole or on a building exceed the height
limits of the zoning district in which the use is located unless allowed by
conditional use permit.
         (d)   Location.
            1.   The light source of an outdoor light fixture shall be set back
a minimum of 10 feet from a street right-of-way and 5 feet from an interior
side or rear lot line.
            2.   No light sources shall be located on the roof unless the light
enhances the architectural features of the building and is approved by the
Zoning Administrator.
         (e)   Hours.
            1.   The use of outdoor lighting for parking lots serving
commercial and industrial businesses shall be turned off 1 hour after closing,
except for approved security lighting.
            2.   All illuminated on-premises and off-premises signs for
advertising purposes shall be turned off between 11:00 p.m. and sunrise, except
that the signs may be illuminated while the business facility on the premises
is open for service.
         (f)   Glare.   Direct or reflected glare from high temperature
processes such as combustion or welding shall not be visible from any adjoining
property.
         (g)   Neon. The use of neon lighting as an accent to the buildings or
signage or as a direct source of lighting shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 711.05)
   (F)   Outdoor recreation. Outdoor recreational uses such as but not limited
to baseball fields, football fields, tennis courts, and snow skiing areas have
special requirements for night-time lighting. Due to these unique
circumstances, a conditional use permit shall be required for outdoor lighting
systems which do not comply with regulations of this section, however.
      (1)   No outdoor recreation facility, whether public or private, shall be
illuminated after 11:00 p.m.
      (2)   Off-street parking areas for outdoor recreation uses which are
illuminated shall meet the requirements stated for commercial and industrial
applications as provided herein.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 711.06)
   (G)   Outdoor signs.  
      (1)   Signs not exclusively illuminated internally may only utilize
illuminating devices mounted on top and facing downward of the display
structure. Outdoor signs constructed of translucent materials and wholly
illuminated from within do not require shielding. All shall comply with all
other provisions of this section.
      (2)   The following outdoor lights are prohibited within the city:
         (a)   The use of search lights for any business shall be prohibited;
and
         (b)   Flashing lights.
   (H)   Submission of plans. All applications, except single-family
residential, that include outdoor lighting must include evidence the proposed
outdoor lighting will comply with this section. The application shall contain
the following information in addition to other required information:
      (1)   Site plans indicating the location on the premises of all
illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports, reflectors, and other lighting
devices;
      (2)   Description of the type of illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps,
supports, reflectors, and other lighting devices. The description may include
but is not limited to catalog cuts by manufacturers and drawings (including
sections where required); and
      (3)   Photometric plans illustrating the angle of the cutoff or light
emissions, and illumination field of the proposed site lighting.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 711.07) (Am. Ord. 7493, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 159.158 ACCESS DRIVES AND ACCESS STANDARDS.
   (A)   Access drives may not be placed closer than 5 feet to any side or rear
lot line. No access drive shall be closer than 3 feet to any single-family
residence or 2-families, no closer than 5 feet to any multiple-families
building or commercial building. The number and type of access drives onto
major streets may be controlled and limited in the interests of public safety
and efficient traffic flow.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 745.01)
   (B)   Access drives onto county roads shall require an access permit from
the County Engineer. This permit shall be acquired prior to the issuance of any
building permits. The County Engineer shall determine the appropriate location,
size, and design of the access drives and may limit the number of access drives
in the interest of public safety and efficient traffic flow. The County
Engineer may refer the request for an access drive permit onto a county road to
the Planning Advisory Commission for its comment.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 745.02)
   (C)   Access drives to principal structures which traverse wooded, steep, or
open field areas shall be constructed and maintained to a width and base
material depth sufficient to support access by emergency vehicles. The City
Engineer or Building Official shall review all access drives (driveways) for
compliance with accepted city access drive standards.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 745.03)
   (D)   Driveway/access way standards are as follows.
 
         Single-Family Detached            Commercial/Multiple-Family
Slopes   10 feet vertical rise in 100      8 feet vertical rise in 100
         horizontal feet                   horizontal feet
         10 feet driveway base, vegetation 10 feet driveway base or as approved
Width    cleared to 8 feet on each side of by the City Engineer
         driveway centerline
Pavement Capable of supporting emergency fire or other heavy vehicles. Strength
         to be determined by City Engineer
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 745.04)
   (E)   (1)   All lots or parcels shall have direct adequate physical access
for emergency vehicles along the frontage of the lot or parcel from either an
existing dedicated public roadway, or an existing private roadway approved by
the City Council.
      (2)   In addition to the required direct physical access along the
frontage of the lot or parcel to the approved public or private roadway, a lot
or parcel may have private easement access drives to the lot over adjacent lots
or parcels.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 745.05)
Cross-reference:
   Additional provisions, see §
159.160
§ 159.159 PRIVATE ROADS.
   (A)   Private roads may be utilized in planned unit developments and cluster
developments, provided:
      (1)   Ownership and maintenance of the roads shall be the responsibility
of the homeowners' association.
      (2)   The road design shall meet or exceed the city standards for public
roads including travel by emergency vehicles.
      (3)   The road right-of-way shall be platted as an outlot in the final
plat, and shall meet or exceed the right-of-way requirements for an equivalent
public road in the city.
      (4)   The homeowners' association shall establish a formal, written
procedure for petitioning city takeover of the road. The association shall
provide written evidence that at least 90% of the voting members of the
association approved the transfer of road responsibilities to the city.
      (5)   The city and the homeowners' association shall establish an
assessment procedure for all abutting, benefiting land in case public
dedication and/or upgrading of the previously existing private road is
officially petitioned for by the homeowners' association.
      (6)   An easement is granted to the city by the association, which allows
the city to use the road and road right-of-way for any reasonable public
purpose, including but not limited to travel by emergency vehicles and
installation of public utilities and conveniences.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 746.01)
   (B)   Private roads shall not connect 2 or more existing or proposed public
roads or road rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 746.02)
   (C)   Private roadway systems within cluster developments or planned unit
developments shall provide access to the public, city road system only, and
shall not connect with private roads of other developments without the formal
written approval of each homeowners' association and the City Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 746.03)
   (D)   Before final approval is given for a private road by the City Council,
the homeowners' association shall grant the city an option to acquire the full
right-of-way otherwise required by the City Zoning and Subdivision Ordinances
for public road purposes along the entire length of the private road, at such
time as the City Council, in its sole discretion, determines that it is in the
public interest to acquire the road without any cost to the city.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 746.04)
§ 159.160 PARKING.
   (A)   Surfacing and drainage. Off-street parking areas shall be improved
with a durable and dustless surface. The areas shall be so graded and drained
as to dispose of all surface water accumulation within the parking area.
Durable and dustless surface may include crushed rock and similar treatment for
parking accessory to 1-, 2-, 3-, and 4-unit residential structures; all other
uses shall utilize asphalt, concrete, or a reasonable substitute surface as
approved by the City Engineer. All surfacing must be completed prior to
occupancy of the structure unless other arrangements have been made with the
city.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 712.01)
   (B)   Location.  All accessory off-street parking facilities required herein
shall be located as follows:
      (1)   Spaces accessory to 1- and 2-family dwellings on the same lot as
the principal use served;
      (2)   Spaces accessory to multiple-family dwellings on the same lot as
the principal use served and within 200 feet of the main entrance to the
principal building served. Parking as required by the Building Code for the
handicapped shall be provided;
      (3)   Spaces accessory to uses located in a business or industrial
district shall be within 800 feet of a main entrance to the principal building
served. Parking as required by the Building Code for the handicapped shall be
provided;
      (4)   There shall be no off-street parking space within 10 feet of any
street right-of-way; and
      (5)   No off-street parking area shall be located closer than 5 feet from
an adjacent lot zoned or used for residential purposes, except when adjoining
an existing parking area on the adjacent lot.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 712.02)
   (C)   Underground parking credits. In any development in which all or a
portion of the required off-street parking is fully enclosed and below ground
elevation, the minimum lot area requirements shall be reduced by 15% per
dwelling unit as set forth in division (I) of this section, but the reduction
shall not be greater than 20% of the total parking space area requirement.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 712.03)
   (D)   General provisions.
      (1)   Reduction of existing spaces. Existing off-street parking spaces
and loading spaces upon the effective date of this chapter shall not be reduced
in number unless the number exceeds the requirements set forth herein for a
similar use.
      (2)   Benches in places of public assembly. In stadiums, sport arenas,
churches, and other places of public assembly, in which patrons or spectators
occupy benches, pews, or other similar seating facilities, each 22 inches of
the seating facilities shall be counted as 1 seat for the purpose of
determining requirements for off-street parking facilities under this chapter.
      (3)   Parking spaces. Each parking space shall not be less than 10 feet
wide and 20 feet in length exclusive of an adequately designed system of access
drives. Parking lots that separate vehicles based on size may be designed with
parking spaces less than or greater than 10 feet wide and 20 feet in length
depending upon the size of vehicle as long as adequate space is provided for
easy and safe ingress and egress for the vehicle. Proposed reductions in or
additions to the parking space size must be submitted in a dimensioned site
plan with size of vehicle to use parking spaces indicated, to the Zoning
Administrator for review and approval. Signs specifying the vehicle size to use
the parking space may be required by the Zoning Administrator. Parking spaces
for the handicapped shall not be less than 12 feet wide and 20 feet in length.
      (4)   Use of parking facilities. Off-street parking facilities accessory
to residential use shall be utilized solely for the parking of passenger
automobiles and/or 1 truck not to exceed 12,000 pounds gross capacity for each
dwelling unit. Under no circumstances shall required parking facilities
accessory to residential structures be used for the storage of commercial
vehicles or for the parking of automobiles belonging to the employees, owners,
tenants, or customers of nearby business or manufacturing establishments.
      (5)   Joint parking facilities. Off-street parking facilities for a
combination of mixed buildings, structures or uses may be provided collectively
in any district (except residential districts) in which separate parking
facilities for each separate building, structure, or use would be required,
provided that the total number of spaces provided shall equal the sum of the
separate requirements of each use during any peak hour parking period.
      (6)   Control of off-street parking facilities.  When required accessory
off-street parking facilities are provided elsewhere than on the lot in which
the principal use served is located, they shall be in the same ownership or
control, either by deed or long-term lease, as the property occupied by the
principal use, and the owner of the principal use shall file a recordable
document with Washington County requiring the owner and that owner's heirs and
assigns to maintain the required number of off-street parking spaces during the
existence of the principal use.
      (7)   Use of parking area. Required off-street parking space in any
district shall not be utilized for open storage of goods or for the storage of
vehicles which are inoperable, for sale or for rent.
      (8)   Surfacing. In residential districts, no more than 25% of the
required setback area shall be surfaced or utilized for driveway or vehicle
storage space.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 712.04)
   (E)   Design and maintenance of off-street parking areas.
      (1)   Design. Parking areas shall be designed so as to provide adequate
means of access to a public alley or street. Such driveway access widths shall
be in accordance with the State Highway Department Standards, but in no case
shall they exceed 32 feet in width unless a conditional use permit has been
obtained approving the larger width. Driveway access shall be so located as to
cause the least interference with traffic movement. There shall be only 1
driveway access for each residential lot.
      (2)   Calculating space. When the calculation of the number of off-street
parking spaces required results in a fraction, the fraction shall require a
full space.
      (3)   Signs.  No signs shall be located in any parking area except as
necessary for orderly operation of traffic movement, and the signs shall not be
a part of the permitted advertising space.
      (4)   Surfacing. All of the area intended to be utilized for parking
space and driveways shall be surfaced with a material to control dust and
drainage. Parking areas for less than 3 vehicle spaces shall be exempt.
      (5)   Lighting.  Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking
area shall be so arranged so it is not directly visible from the adjoining
property and in a downward vertical direction.
      (6)   Curbing and landscaping.  All open off-street parking areas
designed to have head-in parking along the property line shall provide a bumper
curb not less than 5 feet from the side property line or a guard of normal
bumper height no less than 3 feet from the side property line. When the area is
for 6 spaces or more, a curb or screening not over 4 feet in height shall be
erected along the front yard setback line and grass or planting shall occupy
the space between the sidewalk and curb or screening.
      (7)   Planting islands. For each additional 3,000 square feet, or a
portion thereof, of parking area beyond the first 3,000 square feet, 1 planting
island of identical size to the neighboring parking space, but not less than
200 square feet, shall be installed within the interior of the parking surface.
All planting islands shall have 6-inch concrete or asphalt curbs and a
landscaped interior.
      (8)   Parking space for 6 or more cars. When a required off-street
parking space for 6 or more cars is located adjacent to a residential district,
a fence or screens not less than 4 feet in height shall be erected along the
residential district property line.
      (9)   Maintenance of off-street parking space. It shall be the joint
responsibility of the operator and owner of the principal use or building to
reasonably maintain the parking space, access ways, landscaping, and required
fences.
      (10)   Access. All off-street parking spaces shall have access from
driveways and not directly from the public street.
      (11)   Determination of areas. The parking space per vehicle shall not be
less than 300 square feet, or an area equal to (the width of the parking space)
multiplied by (the length of the parking space) plus 11 feet.
      (12)   Distance from building.  No parking space shall be closer than 10
feet to any building.
      (13)   Fire lanes. Fire access lanes shall be provided as required by the
Building or Fire Code.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 712.05)
   (F)   Truck parking in residential areas. No motor vehicle and/or trailer
over 1 ton capacity bearing a commercial marking and used for commercial
purposes shall be parked or stored in a residential district except when
loading, unloading, or rendering a service.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 712.06)
   (G)   Residential parking.  Parking in residential areas (off-street and on-
street) shall be limited to the use of the residents and their guests, except
for short-term parking (6 hours or less).
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 712.07)
   (H)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking spaces shall not be reduced in
number unless the number exceeds the requirements set forth herein.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 712.08)
   (I)   Off-street space requirements. Off-street parking spaces required (1
space equals 300 square feet) shall be as follows for:
Business/Use Space
Business/Use                         Space
                                     Open sales lots shall provide 2 spaces
Auto sales, repair shops             for each 5,000 square feet of lot area,
                                     but not less than 3 spaces
                                     6 spaces for each alley, plus additional
Bowling alley                        spaces as may be required herein for
                                     related uses such as a restaurant
Churches, theaters, auditoriums, or  1 space for each 3 seats or for 5 feet
other places of assembly             of pew length based upon maximum design
                                     capacity
                                     1 space for each 15 square feet of gross
Drive-in food establishment          floor space in the building allocated to
                                     drive-in operation
Furniture store, wholesale           3 spaces each 1,000 square feet of gross
                                     floor area
                                     1 space for each 3 hospital beds, plus 1
                                     space for 3 employees other than
Hospitals                            doctors, plus 1 space for each resident
                                     and regular staff doctor. Bassinets
                                     shall not be counted as beds
Hotel, motel                         1 space per unit, plus 1 space per
                                     employee
                                     1 space for each 2 employees on maximum
Industrial, warehouse, storage,      shift or 1 for each 2,000 square feet of
handling of bulk goods               gross floor area, whichever is the
                                     larger
                                     1-1/2 spaces per slip, plus 1 space per
Marinas                              employee and a minimum of 20, 12-foot by
                                     25-foot trailer stalls
Medical or dental clinic             6 spaces per doctor or dentist
Motor fuel station                   2 spaces plus 3 spaces for each service
                                     stall
                                     2 spaces per dwelling unit. At least 1/
Multiple dwellings                   2 of the required spaces shall be
                                     enclosed
Offices                              1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                     gross floor space
One- and 2-family residences         2 spaces per dwelling but not to exceed
                                     4 per unit
Restaurants, cafes, bars, taverns or 1 space for each 2-1/2 seats, based on
night clubs                          capacity design
Retail store                         1 space for each 150 square feet of
                                     gross floor area
Sanitarium, convalescent home, rest  1 space for each 6 beds for which
home, nursing home or institution    accommodations are offered, plus 1 space
                                     for each 2 employees on maximum shifts
Schools, elementary and junior high  3 spaces for each classroom
                                     1 space for each 4 students based on
Schools, high school through college design capacity plus 3 additional spaces
                                     for each classroom
                                     8 spaces for each chapel or parlor, plus
                                     1 space for each funeral vehicle
Undertaking establishments           maintained on the premises. Aisle space
                                     shall also be provided off the street
                                     for making up a funeral procession
Uses not specifically noted          As determined by the Planning Commission
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 712.09)
§ 159.161 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING AREAS.
   (A)   Location. All required loading berths shall be off-street and shall be
located on the same lot as the building or use to be served. A loading berth
shall be located at least 25 feet from the intersection of 2 street rights-of-
way and a least 50 feet from a residential district, unless within a building.
Loading berths shall not occupy the required front yard space.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 713.01)
   (B)   Size. Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, a required loading
berth shall not be less than 12 feet in width, 50 feet in length and 14 feet in
height, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 713.02)
   (C)   Access. Each required loading berth shall be located with appropriate
means of vehicular access to a street or public alley in a manner which will
least interfere with traffic.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 713.03)
   (D)   Surfacing.  All loading berths and access ways shall be improved with
a hard surface to control the dust and drainage before occupancy of the
structure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 713.04)
   (E)   Accessory use. Any space allocated as a loading berth or maneuvering
area so as to comply with the terms of this chapter shall not be used for the
storage of goods, inoperable vehicles, or be included as a part of the space
requirements necessary to meet the off-street parking area.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 713.05)
   (F)   Unloading area.  Any structure erected or substantially altered for a
use which requires the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by
trucks or similar vehicles, shall provide off-street loading space as required
for a new structure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 713.06)
§ 159.162 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   (1)   The traffic generated by any use shall be controlled so as to
prevent:
         (a)   Congestion of the public streets;
         (b)   Traffic hazards; and
         (c)   Excessive traffic through residential areas, particularly truck
traffic.
      (2)   Internal traffic shall be so regulated as to ensure its safe and
orderly flow. Traffic into and out of business and industrial areas shall in
all cases be forward moving with no backing into streets.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 714.01)
   (B)   On any corner lot, nothing shall be placed or allowed to grow in such
manner as to impede vision between a height of 2-1/2 and 10 feet above the
centerline grades of the intersecting streets within 15 feet of the
intersecting street right-of-way lines. This restriction shall also apply to
the planting of crops and to yard grades that result in elevations that impede
vision within 15 feet of any intersecting street right-of-way lines.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 714.02)
   (C)   Obstruction of right-of-way.
      (1)   The city's Street Commissioner is authorized and directed to secure
the removal of any object placed within the dedicated right-of-way of any
street in the city, which obstructs or interferes or reasonably tends to
obstruct and interfere with street maintenance, snow removal, ditch maintenance
or construction, and/or any object or article which creates an unreasonable
risk of personal injury or property damage to travelers on the city's streets
or the residents of the city.
      (2)   In the case of violations:
         (a)   The Street Commissioner shall notify, in writing, the affected
property owner where the objection is located and request immediate removal of
the object by the property owner.
         (b)   If the property owner fails or refuses to remove the object
within 30 days of notice and if the obstruction presents and immediate and
unreasonable risk to the public safety, the Street Commissioner shall direct
the city representative to enter upon the dedicated right-of-way and remove the
obstruction immediately.
         (c)   Whenever the city representative is required to remove objects
from the dedicated right-of-way, the City Clerk shall bill the affected
property owner for reasonable cost and expense of the removal.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 714.03)
§ 159.163 NUISANCES.
   No activities shall be permitted that emit dangerous radioactivity beyond
enclosed areas. There shall be no electrical disturbance (except from domestic
household appliances) adversely affecting the operation of ordinary business or
household equipment and appliances. Any such omissions are hereby declared to
be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 721.01)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see §§
159.165,
159.166, 159.167 and
Ch. 93
§ 159.164 ENVIRONMENTAL NUISANCES.
   (A)   No odors, vibration, noise, smoke, air pollution, liquid or solid
wastes, heat, glare, dust or other such sensory irritations or health hazards
shall be permitted in any district in excess of the minimum standards as set
forth in this section. Any violation of these standards is hereby declared a
nuisance. The minimum standard shall be as follows:
      (1)   Odors. Any use shall be so operated as to prevent the emission of
odorous or solid matter of a quality or quantity as to be reasonably
objectionable at any point beyond the lot line of the site on which the use is
located.
      (2)   Vibration. The following vibrations are prohibited:
         (a)   Any vibration discernible (beyond the property line) to the
human sense of feeling for 3 minutes' or more duration in any 1 hour; or
         (b)   Any vibration resulting in any combination of amplitudes and
frequencies beyond "safe" range of the most current standards of the United
States Bureau of Mines on any structure.
      (3)   Toxic or noxious matter. Any use shall be so operated as not to
discharge, across the boundaries of the lot or through percolation into the
atmosphere or the subsoil beyond the boundaries of the lot wherein the use is
located, toxic or noxious matter in such concentration as to be detrimental to
or endanger the public health, safety, comfort, or welfare, or cause injury or
damage to property or business.
      (4)   Air pollution.  Any use shall be so operated as to control the
emission of smoke or particulate matter to the degree that it is not
detrimental to or shall endanger the public health, safety, comfort, or general
welfare.
      (5)   Animals. Any building in which domestic farm animals are kept shall
be a minimum distance of 100 feet from all lot lines (see §
159.083).
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the minimum
standards established by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency for noise,
glare, and air and water pollution shall be the minimum standards adopted for
this section.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 722.01)
§ 159.165 MISCELLANEOUS NUISANCES.
   (A)   It shall be a nuisance for any person to store or keep any vehicles of
a type requiring a license to operate on the public highway, but without a
current license attached thereto, whether the vehicle be dismantled or not,
outside of an enclosed building in residential or agricultural districts.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 723.01)
   (B)   It shall be a nuisance to create or maintain a junk yard or vehicle
dismantling yard except as provided herein.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 723.02)
   (C)   The following are declared to be nuisances endangering public health:
      (1)   Causing or suffering the effluent from any cesspool, septic tank,
drainfield, or human sewage disposal system to discharge upon the surface of
the ground or dumping the contents thereof at any place except as authorized by
the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency;
      (2)   Causing or suffering the pollution of any public well or cistern,
stream or lake, canal or body of water by sewage, industrial waste, or other
substances; and
      (3)   Causing or suffering carcasses of animals not to be buried or
destroyed or otherwise disposed of within 24 hours after death.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 723.03)
   (D)   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
      (1)   The placing or throwing on any street, alley, road, highway,
sidewalk, or other public property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, or
other nuisances which may injure any person or animal or may cause damage to
any pneumatic tire when passing over the same.
      (2)   The ownership, possession, or control of any unused refrigerator or
other container, with doors which fasten automatically when closed, of
sufficient size to retain any person, and which is exposed and accessible to
the public, without removing the doors, lids, hinges, or latches, or providing
locks to prevent access by the public.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 723.04)
§ 159.166 NOISE CONTROL.
   (A)   Noise prohibited. It shall be unlawful to make, continue or cause to
be made or continued, any noise in excess of the nose levels set forth unless
the noise be reasonably necessary to the preservation of life, health, safety,
or property.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 724.01)
   (B)   Measurement of noise. Any activity not expressly exempted by this
section which creates or produces sound, regardless of frequency, exceeding the
ambient noise levels at the property line of any property (or if a condominium
or apartment house, within any adjoining apartment) by more than 6 decibels
above the ambient noise levels as designated in the following table at the time
and place and for the duration then mentioned, shall be deemed to be a
violation of this section, but any enumeration herein shall not be deemed to be
exclusive.
 
               Duration of Sound
               All Districts    All Other       Residential Districts
Time                            Districts
               7:00 a.m. - 7:00 7:00 p.m. -7:00 7:00 p.m. - 10: 10:00 p.m. - 7:
               p.m.             a.m.            00 p.m.         00 a.m.
Less than 10   75db             70db            -               60db
minutes
Between 10
minutes and 2  70db             60db            -               50db
hours
In excess of 2 60db             50db            -               40db
hours
 
      (1)   In determining whether a particular sound exceeds the maximum
permissible sound level in the above table, the maximum allowable decibel
levels for residential districts are as set forth in Column 3 of the table:
         (a)   Sounds in excess of the residential district limitations as
measured in a residential district or other district; and
         (b)   During all hours of Sundays and state and federal holidays.
      (2)   Sounds emanating from the operation of the following are exempt
from the provisions of this chapter:
         (a)   Motor vehicles on public highways;
         (b)   Aircraft;
         (c)   Outdoor implements such as power lawn mowers, snowblowers, power
hedge clippers and power saws; and
         (d)   Pile drivers or jackhammers and other construction equipment
from lawful and proper activities at school grounds, playgrounds, parks, or
places wherein athletic contests take place.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 724.02)
   (C)   Construction equipment. Except as hereinafter provided, no pile
driver, jackhammer or other construction equipment shall be operated between
the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays and during any hours on
Saturdays, Sundays, and state and federal holidays, except under city issued
permit.
      (1)   No internal combustion engine or any other power unit when operated
in connection with construction or demolition equipment shall be operated at
any time other than at the times set forth in this section, and any sound
emitted from any such engine or power units shall not exceed 83 decibels
measured along the property line.
      (2)   If an emergency situation exists or if substantial economic loss
would result to any person unless allowed additional hours of equipment
operation, a city issued permit may be granted for extended hours of operation
of the construction equipment and internal combustion engine or power unit as
follows:
         (a)   In the event of an emergency situation a permit may be granted
for operation during any hour of any day for a period not to exceed 3 days or
less while the emergency continues, and which permit may be renewed for periods
of 3 days or less while the emergency continues.
         (b)   In the event of a determination of substantial economic loss to
a person, a city issued permit may be granted for operation throughout the
hours of 7:00 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. on weekdays and throughout the hours of 1:00
p.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays, Sundays, and state and federal holidays, upon
the condition that, while any construction equipment, internal combustion
engine or power unit is in operation, its location shall not be less than 600
feet in any direction from any dwelling; except that if, while the construction
equipment, internal combustion engine or power unit is in operation, its
location shall be no less than 1,200 feet in any direction from any dwelling, a
permit may be granted for operation during any hour or any day.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 724.03)
   (D)   Outdoor implements. Except as hereinafter provided, any power lawn
mower, snow blower, power hedge clipper, power saw, or such other implements
designed primarily for outdoor use, shall be operated only between the hours of
7:30 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on weekdays, or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 9:30
p.m. on Saturday, Sundays, and state and federal holidays; provided, however,
that such equipment, the operation of which conforms to the maximum allowable
sound levels as prescribed herein, may be operated during the above prohibited
hours.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 724.04)
SIGNS
§ 159.180 TITLE.
   This subchapter may be cited as the "Lakeland Sign Ordinance" or as the
"sign ordinance."
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.01) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 159.181 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect and retain the natural
scenic beauty of the roadsides throughout the city and to create a
comprehensive and balanced system of signs which will facilitate communication.
These regulations apply to erecting signs to replace old or new sign placement
in the city and to all exterior signs.
   (B)   It is the intent of this subchapter to authorize the use of signs
which:
      (1)   Encourage a desirable rural character consistent with the General
Plan;
      (2)   Preserve and improve the appearance of the city as a place to live,
work, and visit;
      (3)   Eliminate confusing, distracting, or dangerous sign displays which
interfere with vehicular traffic;
      (4)   Provide for fair and equal treatment of sign users;
      (5)   Promote efficient administration of the sign ordinance through a
complete and understandable sign ordinance; and
      (6)   Provide for eventual elimination of preexisting, nonconforming
signs on a fair and equitable basis.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.02) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 159.182 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Signs are an essential element of any city. Their location, number,
size, design, and relationship to each other and to other structures has a
significant influence upon a community's appearance and welfare, and the
resultant effect upon a viewer's perception of the city. Signs serve a useful
purpose in communicating a message, whether commercial or otherwise.
   (B)   Where signs are not properly regulated, they contribute to visual
clutter, confusion, aesthetic blight, and create an unpleasant impression. They
may cause traffic hazards and impede rather than enhance commerce. In such
situations, such signs may fail to achieve their original objective of
communication. Failure to appropriately regulate signs adversely affects the
public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   Property and facilities located within the public right-of-way, such
as utility poles, benches, hydrants, bridges, sidewalks, traffic sign posts,
and similar structures are not by tradition or designation a forum for
communication by the general public. The city wishes to preserve these
structures for their intended purpose, which is the safe, efficient, and
pleasant movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic, and the safe operation
of the utility system.
   (D)   The regulations and prohibitions of this chapter are necessary to
preserve items and structures located within the public right-of-way for their
intended purposes, and to prevent the visual clutter, blight, and traffic
hazards caused by signs.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.03) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 159.183 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   All permits shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator. Except as
otherwise provided in this subchapter, no sign shall be erected, constructed,
altered, rebuilt, or relocated until a city permit or temporary sign permit for
the sign has been issued according to the chart in §
159.205.
   (B)   No permit will be required under this subchapter for the following
signs:
      (1)   Nameplate signs 2 square feet or less;
      (2)   Political signs;
      (3)   Public notices defined as notices placed or which are located on
private property with permission of the landowner, or on public property or
public right-of-way;
      (4)   Public safety signs, including but not limited to road and street
signs, public building identification signs, and hazard warning devices as
erected by the State of Minnesota, County of Washington, or City of Lakeland;
      (5)   Real estate sale signs 9 square feet or less;
      (6)   Residential garage sale signs or yard sale signs;
      (7)   Residential open house directional signs;
      (8)   Warning signs which do not exceed 9 square feet in area; or
(Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
      (9)   Commercial real estate sale, lease or rental sign of 50 square feet
or less.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.04) (Ord. 7500, passed 3-18-2003)
§ 159.184 COMPREHENSIVE SIGN PLAN AND DIAGRAMS.
   The inclusion of diagrams is for illustrative purposes only. Where a diagram
conflicts with text, the text shall control.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.05) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 159.185 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDRESS SIGN. Identification numbers assigned for address purposes in
accordance with the city code. ADDRESS SIGNS may be written or in numeric form.
The building name is not a part of the address.
   AREA IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A freestanding sign which identifies the name of,
including but not limited to a neighborhood, a residential subdivision, a
multiple residential complex consisting of 3 or more structures, a shopping
center or shopping area, a building where there are 3 or more businesses, an
industrial area, an office complex consisting of 3 or more structures, or any
combination of the above that could be termed an area.
   AREA OF FREESTANDING SIGN.  The area of the sign. It does not include
embellishments such as the monument base, pole covers, framing, or decorative
roofing, provided that there is no advertising copy on or attached to such
embellishments. If the freestanding sign is double-faced, both sides are used
to calculate sign area. If the freestanding sign has more than 2 faces, each
face is used to calculate the sign area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/822285d5bf476d98a954f62d4527cef5bda008ba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1367.jpg]
 
   AREA OF WALL SIGN. The total area of the sign, including all structures
framing the sign, background embellishments or area contained within a
rectangle or square drawn completely around the display surface, even if the
sign consists of individual letters.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/822285d5bf476d98a954f62d4527cef5bda008ba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1370.jpg]
 
   AUXILIARY CANOPY. A roof-like structure projecting over, including but not
limited to drive-through banking or any canopy with a drive-through lane. An
AUXILIARY CANOPY provides weather protection for more than the building
entrance or windows. AUXILIARY CANOPIES may be attached or detached from the
principal building. For sign purposes, AUXILIARY CANOPIES shall be considered a
separate structure. A gasoline pump island canopy is not an AUXILIARY CANOPY.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/822285d5bf476d98a954f62d4527cef5bda008ba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1373.jpg]
 
   BANNER SIGN. A temporary sign constructed of a strip of cloth or similar
material not exceeding 15 square feet hung upon a crossbar or between 2 points
of any permanent structure or poles advertising an event such as a grand
opening, special sale, products, or services. Banners with a message on both
sides or fastened back to back will be considered 1 banner.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/822285d5bf476d98a954f62d4527cef5bda008ba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1376.jpg]
 
   BARBER POLE. A rotating pole with red and white diagonal stripes used as a
sign to identify a barbershop.
   BENCH SIGN. A sign on a bench at a bus stop or similar public area.
   BILLBOARD SIGN. Any business sign that exceeds 50 square feet.
   BUILDING CANOPY OR AWNING.  A roof-like structure projecting from the
building over an entrance or window that provides weather protection for the
entry or window and may include the immediately adjacent area. BUILDING
CANOPIES shall be considered part of the wall area and thus shall not warrant
additional sign area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/822285d5bf476d98a954f62d4527cef5bda008ba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1379.jpg]
 
   BUILDING COMPLEX. A group of 2 or more buildings, planned or developed in a
joint manner with shared parking facilities, regardless of whether the
buildings or uses are located on the same lot or parcel.
   CANOPY. See definitions of Building canopy sign and Auxiliary canopy sign.
   CLEAR VISION TRIANGLE. The area created by drawing an imaginary line between
points 30 feet back from where the edges of the paved surface of the
intersection quadrant meet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/822285d5bf476d98a954f62d4527cef5bda008ba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1382.jpg]
 
   COMPREHENSIVE SIGN PLAN.  Sign criteria for proposed signs approved by the
city.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN.  An on-site temporary sign which displays information
regarding a project under construction.
   CORPORATE LOGO. See definition of Logo or trademark.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. An on-site sign designed to guide vehicular or pedestrian
traffic that does not promote or advertise a business property or product.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/822285d5bf476d98a954f62d4527cef5bda008ba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1385.jpg]
 
   DIRECTORY SIGN.  A sign listing the names and locations of occupants or
activities conducted within a building or group of buildings that does not
otherwise promote or advertise a business, property or product.
   FREESTANDING SIGN.  Any sign not affixed to a building, including but not
limited to a ground-mounted sign, detached sign, pole sign, or monument sign.
   GARAGE SALE SIGN. See definition of Residential garage sale sign.
 
   GASOLINE PUMP ISLAND CANOPY. A structure that provides shelter over gasoline
pump islands.   GOVERNMENTAL SIGN. A sign which is erected by a governmental
unit including but not limited to those for the purpose of directing or guiding
traffic, and any sign owned or erected by the city.
   GRADE. The elevation of the finished surface of the ground or paving at the
base of a sign.
   HEIGHT OF FREESTANDING SIGN. The actual distance from the grade to the
highest point of the sign, or any structure or architectural component of the
sign.
   HOME OCCUPATION SIGN.  A sign located at a residence advertising a business
conducted in the residence or by persons residing in the residence. (NOTE:
Current home occupation regulations, as set forth in §
159.104, do not allow signage.)
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign illuminated with artificial light by any means,
whether internal or external.
   INFLATABLE SIGN. Any object enlarged or inflated which floats, is tethered
in the air, or is located on the ground or on a building.
   INFORMATIONAL SIGN. A sign erected for the safety or convenience of the
public, including but not limited to "Restrooms," "Telephone," "Danger," "No
Smoking," "Manager's Office," and other signs that do not promote or advertise
a business, property, or product.
   INSTITUTIONAL SIGN. Any on-site sign or bulletin board which identifies the
name and other characteristics of a public or private institution, including
but not limited to church, school, or governmental facilities.
   LOGO or TRADEMARK.  A distinctive and exclusive mark, motto, device, or
emblem which a manufacturer or owner stamps, prints, or otherwise affixes to
the goods it sells or the properties it owns, with the intent that those goods
or properties can be easily identified in the marketplace and their origin can
be vouched for.
   MAINTENANCE. To keep a sign in its original condition by repair,
replacement, or structural improvement.
   MANSARD.  A roof with sloping sides on the upper portion of a building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/822285d5bf476d98a954f62d4527cef5bda008ba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1388.jpg]
 
   MARQUEE. A roof or canopy-like structure projecting over an entrance to a
theater or similar building.
   MEMORIAL SIGN. A noncommercial sign erected in remembrance of any historic
occasion or occurrences of significance to the general public.
   MENU/ORDER BOARD SIGN. A sign installed in a drive-through facility and
intended for drive-through customers that advertises the products available at
the facility.
   MONUMENT SIGN. See definition of Freestanding sign.
   MOTION SIGN. Any sign that revolves, rotates, has flashing or changing
lights, reflective material, any material that gives the illusion of motion,
has any moving parts or search lights used for advertising, or changes the
message or display automatically.
   NEON SIGN. A sign illuminated with neon light.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN.  A sign which lawfully existed prior to May 29, 2001,
but does not conform to this chapter.
   NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION.  An organization meeting the requirements of
Internal Revenue Code § 501(c).
   OBSCENE SIGN.  A sign which has a presentation, display, depiction, or
description of obscene pictures or written matter.
   OFF-SITE SIGN. A sign which advertises any business, product, person, event,
or service conducted, sold, manufactured, or located off the premises where the
sign is located.
   ON-SITE SIGN. A sign which advertises any business, product, person, event,
or service conducted, sold, manufactured, or located on the premises where the
sign is located.
   OPEN HOUSE SIGN/REAL ESTATE. See definition of Real estate sign.
   OPEN HOUSE SIGN/RESIDENTIAL.  See definition of Residential open house
directional sign.
   OPINION SIGN.  A sign that expresses an opinion or point of view that does
not advertise any product, service, or business or display a commercial
message.
   PARCEL. A legal parcel of land or lot of record.
   PENNANT.  Pieces of cloth, paper, or plastic intended to be individually
supported or attached to each other by means of rope, string, or other
material, and intended to be hung on buildings or other structures or between
poles, that does not include any company logo or other form of copy.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/822285d5bf476d98a954f62d4527cef5bda008ba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1391.jpg]
 
   PERMANENT SIGN.  Any sign which is not a temporary sign.
   PERMIT or SIGN PERMIT. A permit issued by the city to erect or maintain a
sign.
   POLITICAL SIGN. A sign pertaining to an election to any public office, any
ballot measure, or containing any social, ideological, or religious information
of a noncommercial nature.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign designed to be movable from one location to another
with or without wheels.
   PRIMARY ENTRANCE. A main public entrance to a property or building. In the
case of multiple entrances, the number of PRIMARY ENTRANCES will be determined
by the city.
   PRIVATE SIGN. Any sign which is not a government sign.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A wall sign which protrudes horizontally from the wall to
which it is attached.
   PROPERTY.  A legal parcel of land or a lot of record.
   PROPERTY LINE. The boundary of a property, lot, or parcel. Buildings on the
same parcel may have an assumed PROPERTY LINE, as established by the city, for
setback purposes.
   READER BOARD SIGN. A sign where the message changes automatically.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN (COMMERCIAL). Any sign pertaining to the sale, lease, or
rental of commercial land and/or buildings.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN (RESIDENTIAL). Any sign pertaining to any sale, lease, or
rental of residential land and/or homes.
(Am. Ord. 7500, passed 3-18-2003)
   RESIDENTIAL GARAGE SALE SIGN or YARD SALE SIGN. A temporary, either on-site
or off site, which advertises or indicates the location of a garage, yard, or
similar sale.
   RESIDENTIAL OPEN HOUSE DIRECTIONAL SIGN.  A temporary sign, either on-site
or off-site, which indicates the location of an event such as a graduation or
wedding at a private residence. A RESIDENTIAL OPEN HOUSE SIGN shall be treated
as a temporary sign.
   ROOF LINE.
      (1)   The top line of the outside wall on a flat-roof building, whether
roof is at or below the wall line;
      (2)   The soffit on a building with soffits; or
      (3)   The line formed by the junction of the roof and the outside wall on
a sloped roof without soffits.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/822285d5bf476d98a954f62d4527cef5bda008ba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1394.jpg]
 
   ROOF SIGN. A sign erected on the roof or above the roof line of a building
or a sign painted on or attached directly to the roof.
   SIGN. Any display, illustration, structure, or device which directs
attention to an object, product, place, activity, person, institution,
organization, or business.
   STREET FRONTAGE. The boundary of a lot which abuts a public street or
private road.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign designed or intended to be displayed for limited
periods of time, including but not limited to all nonpermanently affixed signs,
banners, or pennants.
   TRADEMARK. See definition of Logo or trademark.
   UNDER CANOPY SIGN. Any sign hanging below a building canopy, awning, or
building overhang.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/822285d5bf476d98a954f62d4527cef5bda008ba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1397.jpg]
 
   VARIANCE. A modification or variation of the provisions of this subchapter,
where it is determined that, by reason of special or unusual circumstances
relating to a special lot, strict applications of this chapter would cause
undue hardship.
   VEHICLE SIGN.  A vehicle that is used as a sign or as the base of the sign
where the primary purpose of the vehicle in that location is its use as a sign.
   WALL.  The vertical surface that defines the exterior boundary of a
building.
   WALL SIGN.  A single-faced sign painted on, attached to or erected against
the exterior wall of a building, structure, canopy, or awning.
   WARNING SIGN. A sign which warns the public of a danger or hazard in the
immediate vicinity and is obviously not intended for advertising purposes.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any sign placed on the interior of a window, or painted on a
window such that it can be read from the outside of the building.
   YARD SALE SIGN.  See definition of Residential garage sale sign.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.06) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001; Am. Ord. 7523,
passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord. 7531, passed 3-20-2012)
§ 159.186 SIGNS NOT PERMITTED IN ANY ZONING DISTRICT.
   The following are not permitted in any zoning district:
   (A)   No sign shall be allowed that prevents ingress or egress from any
door, window, fire escape or any way constitutes a hazard to health, safety, or
general welfare of the public;
   (B)   No sign shall be permitted which by reason of advertising content,
location, shape, or overall impression may be reasonably expected to be
confused with, obscure, or interfere with any official traffic sign or device
or otherwise serve as a traffic hazard;
   (C)   No sign shall be permitted on benches, news stands, car stands, school
bus stop shelters, or similar places;
   (D)   Canopy/awning signs are not allowed in any district;
   (E)   Electrical signs. No electricity-illuminated sign shall be permitted
in a residential or agricultural zoning district;
   (F)   Flashing signs;
   (G)   Flying signs, such as blimps or kites, designed to be kept aloft by
mechanical, wind, chemical, or hot air means, provided they are tethered or
connected to the ground by wire, rope, or similar device;
   (H)   Home occupation signs;
   (I)   Inflatable signs, including but not limited to balloons;
   (J)    Motion signs, except for barber pole which shall be defined as a
rotating pole with red and white diagonal stripes used as a sign to identify a
barbershop;
   (K)   Neon signs. No exterior neon signs shall be permitted. Neon signs that
can be read from the outside of the building shall be limited to only those
signs which indicate that the business is "open/closed," and shall be placed
only in the interior of a window. Also see §
159.199;
   (L)   Obscene signs. No sign shall contain any obscene pictures or written
matter;
   (M)   Off-site signs;
   (N)   Painted signs. Signs painted directly on or mounted on a bench,
building, fence, tree, stone, or similar object or any other natural growth,
nor on any utility pole or structure;
   (O)   Portable signs;
   (P)   Reader board signs;
   (Q)   Roof signs are prohibited in all zoning districts, with the exception
of single-faced signs painted on, attached to erected against the exterior of a
mansard;
   (R)   Utility poles. Signs are not allowed on utility poles; and
   (S)   Vehicle signs. A vehicle may not be used as a sign nor as the base for
a sign where the primary purpose of the vehicle in that location is its use as
a sign.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.07) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001; Am. Ord. 7531,
passed 3-20-2012)
§ 159.187 PRIVATE TRAFFIC SIGNS.
   Private traffic circulation signs and traffic warning signs in alleys,
parking lots or in other hazardous situations may be allowed on private
property, provided that the signs do not exceed 3 square feet and are used
exclusively for traffic-control purposes.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.08) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 159.188 POLITICAL SIGNS.
   Political signs are allowed in any zoning district on private property with
the consent of the owner of the property. These signs must be removed after 10
days following the date of the election to which they apply.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.09) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.S. § 211B.045
§ 159.189 REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT SIGNS.
   Real estate development project sales signs may be erected for the purpose
of selling or promoting a single-family residential project of 10 or more
dwelling units, provided:
   (A)   The signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and shall require a
conditional use permit.
   (B)   Only 1 such sign shall be erected on each road frontage with a maximum
of 3 signs per project.
   (C)   The signs shall be removed when the project is 80% completed or within
6 months or when sold or leased.
   (D)   The signs shall not be located closer than 100 feet to any existing
residence.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.10) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 159.190 CONSTRUCTION SIGNS.
   Construction signs not exceeding 32 square feet in area shall be allowed in
all zoning districts during construction. The signs shall be removed when the
project is substantially completed.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.11) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 159.191 REQUIRED SIGNS; HOUSE NUMBERS.
   In all zoning districts, a display of house and/or building number is
required. The numbers shall not be less than 3 inches in height in contrasting
color to the base. The numbers shall be placed as to be easily and clearly seen
from the street when approached from either direction.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.12) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see § 505.05 of the Fire Prevention and Life Safety Code
§ 159.192 PERMITTED IN AGRICULTURAL AND RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Regulations for permitted signs in agricultural and residential zoning
districts are as follows:
   (A)   Nameplate, political, sale, real estate sales, temporary, and warning
signs;
   (B)   No sign shall have more than 2 surfaces;
   (C)   Number of each type of sign allowed per lot frontage: One of each of
the permitted type signs, except temporary signs where 2 will be permitted and
political signs where 1 for each candidate will be permitted;
   (D)   No sign shall be more than a total of 16 square feet with a 4-foot
maximum for any dimension except as otherwise restricted in this subchapter.
The total square feet for all signs shall not exceed 32 square feet per lot;
   (E)   The top of the display shall not exceed 12 feet above grade;
   (F)   All private signs shall be set back at least 10 feet from the property
line or the edge of the paved surface of any street or other public right-of-
way;
   (G)   Sale signs shall be removed within 24 hours after the end of the
event;
   (H)   Temporary signs may be hung upon a primary structure or from a
crossbar or poles erected for this purpose, but may not be placed on exterior
fencing or accessory buildings; and
   (I)   Commercial special occasion ceremony venue signage must meet the
requirements set forth in §
159.117. Signage requires approval as part of an interim use permit to be valid
as required for a ceremony venue.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.14) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001; Am. Ord. 7544,
passed 4-21-2015)
§ 159.193 PERMITTED IN RETAIL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   The following are permitted in retail business districts:
   (A)   Type. Business, nameplate, sale, inside, identification, illuminated,
ground, political, real estate sales, shopping center or other building where
there are 3 or more businesses, temporary and wall signs.
   (B)   Number. Number of each type of sign allowed per lot: One nameplate
sign, 1 sale sign, 1 political sign for each candidate, and 1 business or 1
shopping center sign or sign for a building where there are 3 or more
businesses.
   (C)   Surfaces. No sign shall have more than 2 parallel surfaces.
   (D)   Size. In the case of a single-faced sign, no sign shall exceed 50
square feet. The maximum square footage of a multi-faced sign shall not exceed
2 times the allowable square footage of a single-faced sign. No combination of
signs on the premises shall exceed 150 square feet, with 180 square feet
maximum for overall shopping center signs or signs for buildings where there
are 3 or more businesses. Individual business signs shall not exceed 50 square
feet. Calculation of total maximum square footage shall include all exterior
signs.
   (E)   Measurement of signs.  Calculation of a sign will include the total
area of the sign, including all structures framing the sign, background and
embellishments or area contained within a rectangle or square drawn completely
around the display surface, even if the sign consists of individual letters. On
a freestanding sign, it does not include embellishments such as the monument
base, pole covers, framing, or decorative roofing, provided that there is no
advertising copy on or attached to such embellishments.
   (F)   Height.  The top of all ground signs shall not be more than 12 feet
above the elevation at the foundation of the adjacent primary structure, unless
otherwise allowed by conditional use permit.
(Am. Ord. 7509, passed 1-8-2007)
   (G)   Setbacks. All freestanding signs, ground signs, and signs over 6 feet
shall be set back 10 feet from the property line. In no case shall any part of
the sign be closer than 2 feet to a vertical line drawn at the property line or
the public right-of-way. All signs over 100 square feet shall be set back at
least 50 feet from any residential/agricultural district.
(Am. Ord. 7496, passed 10- -2001)
   (H)   Temporary. Temporary signs are allowed by a sign permit. Temporary
signs may be hung upon a primary structure or from a crossbar or poles erected
for this purpose, but may not be placed on exterior fencing or accessory
buildings. The setback requirements for temporary signs are:
      (1)   All temporary signs must be set back at least 50 feet from the edge
of the paved surface of any intersection.
      (2)   All temporary signs shall be set back at least 20 feet from the
paved edge of any street or other public right-of-way.
   (I)   Illumination. Illuminated signs are allowed by conditional use permit.
Externally lit signs shall be lit so as not to direct rays of light into
adjacent property or onto any public street or other public right-of-way.
Internally lit signs shall have an opaque background which does not allow a
light source to permeate the surface. Contrasting letters or logos shall be
used. Also see §
159.157(C) and (D).
   (J)   Gasoline pump island canopies. Gasoline pump island canopies shall be
excluded from calculation of total allowable sign area. Such signs shall be
allowed such lettering and embellishments consistent with corporate logo and
branding.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.15) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001; Am. Ord. 7497,
passed 1-15-2002; Am. Ord. 7523, passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord. 7559, passed 11-21-
2017)
§ 159.194 RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS.
   No combination of signs on the premises shall exceed 150 square feet.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.16) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 159.195 PERMITTED SIGNS IN PUD DISTRICTS OR USES REQUIRING CONDITIONAL USE
PERMIT.
   (A)   Type, number, size, height, and setback shall be specifically
authorized by terms of the issued permit.
   (B)   To the extent feasible and practicable, signs shall be regulated in a
manner similar to that in the use district most appropriate to the principal
use involved.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.17) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 159.196 SIGN CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Required marking on signs.  After the effective date of this
subchapter, every sign for which a permit is required shall have painted in a
conspicuous place thereon in letters not less than 1 inch in height, the date
erected, the permit number, and the voltage of any electrical apparatus used in
connection therewith.
   (B)   Name of person responsible. Every outdoor advertising sign erected
under the provisions of this subchapter shall be plainly marked with the name
of the person or firm who erected the sign.
   (C)   Materials. The face and structural elements of all permitted signs in
all zoning districts shall be constructed of wood, wood composite, or
unbreakable materials, with the exception of temporary signs or banners.
   (D)   Style. All signs should be similar to the design of the building or
landscape of the property they represent. All signs will conform to 1 of the 3
types illustrated below and will appear significantly similar to 1 of the
following designs:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/822285d5bf476d98a954f62d4527cef5bda008ba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1400.jpg]
 
   (E)   Supports. The soil used for the dug-in type of anchor or post support
shall be carefully placed and thoroughly compacted. The anchors and supports
shall penetrate to a depth below ground level greater than that of the frost
line.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.18)
(Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 159.197 WALL SIGNS.
   Wall signs attached to the exterior walls of solid masonry or concrete shall
be safely and securely attached to the same by means of metal anchors, bolts or
expansion screws of not less than 3/8 inch in diameter which shall be embedded
at least 5 inches. No wooden blocks or anchorage with wood used in connection
with screws or nails shall be considered proper anchorage, except in the case
of wall signs attached to buildings with walls of wood. No wall sign shall be
entirely supported by an unbraced parapet wall.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.19) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 159.198 GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS.
   (A)   Signs identifying the location or operation of, including but not
limited to vacuum, air, ice, telephone, car wash, propane, self-serve, full
serve, operating instructions, and safety instructions shall not exceed 6
square feet.
   (B)   All signage on the surface of the pump, including but not limited to
gasoline brand name, pricing, or other advertisement, shall not exceed 2 square
feet per pump.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.20) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 159.199 WINDOW SIGNS.
   Window signs may be placed within a building, not to exceed 20% of the total
window area. The area of permanent window signs, including but not limited to
signs painted on the window, shall be included in calculations for total
maximum square footage.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.21) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 159.200 SIGN MAINTENANCE.
   (A)    The owner of any sign shall be required to repair or replace any sign
that is chipped, cracked, broken, faded, or otherwise damaged within 90 days
from the date of the damage.
   (B)   Any change to the size, design, shape, or language of any sign shall
require that application be made for approval of the sign.
   (C)   The owner or lessee of any sign, or the owner of the land on which the
sign is located, shall keep the grass, weeds, or other growth cut and the area
free from refuse between the sign and the street and also for a distance of 6
feet behind and at the ends of the sign.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.23) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001; Am. Ord. 7559,
passed 11-21-2017)
§ 159.201 OBSOLETE SIGNS.
   Any signs for which no permit has been issued or the permit has expired will
be removed by the owner, agent, or person having the beneficial use of the
building, structure, or land upon which the sign may be found within 30 days
after written notice from the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.24) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 159.202 UNSAFE OR DANGEROUS SIGNS.
   Any sign which becomes structurally unsafe or endangers the safety of a
building or premises or endangers the public safety shall be taken down and
removed or structurally improved by the owner, agent, or person having
beneficial use of the building, structure, or land upon which the sign is
located within 10 days after written notice from the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.25) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 159.203 TEMPORARY SIGN PERMITS.
   (A)   The application for a temporary sign permit shall be accompanied by a
fee as set forth in §
33.01.
   (B)   All temporary sign permits shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator
for a period not to exceed 30 days and multiple permits are not to exceed 90
days in any calendar year.
   (C)   The fee may be changed from time to time by resolution adopted by the
City Council.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.26) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 159.204 EXPIRATION OF PERMITS.
   If the work authorized under a sign permit has not been completed within 6
months after the date of issuance, the permit shall become null and void.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 727.27) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 159.205 PERMIT CHART.
   (A)   Signs not permitted in all zoning districts are defined in §
159.186.
   (B)   All signs require a permit issued by the Zoning Administrator or
approval as part of a conditional use permit, except those defined in §
159.183 as not requiring permits.
   (C)   All sign applications require specifications and drawings showing the
materials, color, design, dimensions, structural supports, and electrical
components of the proposed sign.
Type of Sign A, R RB
Type of Sign                                          A, R RB
Advertising sign                                      N    SP
Area identification sign                              CUP  CUP
Commercial special occasion ceremony venue            IUP  -
Freestanding sign                                     N    CUP
Gasoline pump island canopy                           N    P
Illuminated sign                                      N    CUP
Political sign                                        P    P
Real estate sign (residential) 9 square feet or under P    P
Real estate sign (residential) over 9 square feet     SP   SP
Real estate sign (commercial) 50 square feet or under -    P
Real estate sign (commercial) over 50 square feet     -    CUP
Temporary sign                                        SP   SP
Wall sign                                             N    SP
Warning sign (9 square feet or less)                  P    P
Warning sign (over 9 square feet)                     SP   SP
Key:
SP   Sign permit issued by Zoning Administrator    A   Agricultural
P   Permitted use - No permit required             R   Residential
CUP   Conditional Use Permit (with public hearing) RB   Retail Business
IUP   Interim Use Permit (with public hearing)
N   Not permitted
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 728.28) (Am. Ord. 7494, passed 5-29-2001; Am. Ord. 7500,
passed 3-18-2003; Am. Ord. 7523, passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord. 7544, passed 4-21-
2015; Am. Ord. 7559, passed 11-21-2017)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 159.220 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Application to city personnel. The failure of any officer or employee
of the community to perform any official duty imposed by this chapter shall not
subject the officer or employee to a penalty imposed for violation unless a
penalty is specifically provided for the failure.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 801.03)
   (B)   Equitable release. In the event of a violation or the threatened
violation of any provision of this chapter, or any provision or condition of a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter, the city in addition to other remedies
may institute appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct,
or abate the violation or threatened violation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 801.04)
§ 159.999 PENALTY.  
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, each act of violation and every day on
which the violation occurs or continues is a separate offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 801.02)
   (B)   The violation of any provision of this subchapter or the violation of
the conditions or provisions of any permit issued pursuant to this chapter
shall be a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, the violator shall be
subject to the penalties set forth in §
10.98.
(Prior Code, Ch. 300 § 801.01)
APPENDIX A: ZONING MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/822285d5bf476d98a954f62d4527cef5bda008ba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1403.jpg]
 
Click_here_to_view_the_above_map_in_a_PDF_document.
CHAPTER 160: RESERVED
CHAPTER 161: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND EROSION CONTROL ACTIVITIES
Section
   
161.01   Authorization, purpose, scope, and interpretation
   
161.02   Applicability
   
161.03   Exemptions
   
161.04   Definitions
   
161.05   Permit review process
   
161.06   Site design and MIDS calculator
   
161.07   Stormwater volume reduction performance standards
   
161.08   Stormwater management rate control
   
161.09   Other design standards
   
161.10   Inspections and maintenance
   
161.11   Financial securities
   
161.12   Enforcement actions
§ 161.01 AUTHORIZATION, PURPOSE, SCOPE, AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Statutory authorization.
      (1)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization and policies
contained in M.S. Chapters 103B, 103D, and 462; Minn. Rules, Parts 6120.2500-
6120.3900; and Minn. Rules Chs. 8410 and 8420.
      (2)   This chapter is intended to meet the construction site erosion and
sediment control and post-construction stormwater management regulatory
requirements for construction activity and small construction activity (NPDES
Permit) as defined in 40 CFR 122.26(b)(14)(x) and (b)(15), respectively.
      (3)   This chapter is intended to meet the Minimal Impact Design
Standards (MIDS) developed under M.S. § 115.03, Subd. 5c.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulatory
requirements for land development and land disturbing activities aimed at
minimizing the threats to public health, safety, public and private property
and natural resources within the city from construction site erosion and post-
construction stormwater runoff. Specifically, the chapter establishes
regulatory requirements that:
      (1)   Meet MIDS performance standards;
      (2)   Assist in meeting NPDES/SDS construction stormwater general permit
requirements;
      (3)   Assist in meeting total maximum daily load (TMDL) plan wasteload
allocations for impaired waters through quantification of load reductions;
      (4)   Assist in meeting policies and performance standards of the Middle
St. Croix Water Management Organization (MSCWMO);
      (5)   Protect life and property from dangers associated with flooding;
      (6)   Protect public and private property and natural resources from
damage resulting from stormwater runoff and erosion;
      (7)   Ensure site design minimizes the generation of stormwater runoff
and maximizes previous areas for stormwater treatment within the context of the
allowable use;
      (8)   Provide a single, consistent set of performance goals that apply to
all developments;
      (9)   Protect water quality from pollutant loadings of sediment,
suspended solids, nutrients, heavy metals, toxins, debris, bacteria, pathogens,
biological impairments, thermal stress and other pollutants;
      (10)   Promote infiltration and groundwater recharge;
      (11)   Provide vegetated corridors (buffers) to protect water resources
from development;
      (12)   Protect functional values of all types of natural waterbodies
(e.g., rivers, streams, wetlands, lakes, seasonal ponds); and
      (13)   Sustain or enhance biodiversity (native plant and animal habitat)
and support riparian ecosystems.
   (C)   Scope. Land shall not be developed for any use without providing
stormwater management measures and erosion and sediment control measures that
control or manage stormwater runoff from such developments.
   (D)   Greater restrictions. 
      (1)   Relationship to WD/WMO requirements. All stormwater management and
erosion and sediment control activities shall comply with all applicable
requirements of the relevant watershed management organization or watershed
district. In the case of conflict between provisions of this chapter and other
stormwater regulations, the strictest provisions shall apply to land
development and/or land disturbing activities.
      (2)   Relationship to existing easements, covenants, and deed
restrictions. The provisions of this chapter are not intended to repeal,
abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions the provisions of this
chapter shall prevail.
   (E)   Severability. The provisions of this chapter are severable, and if any
provision of this chapter, or application of any provision of this chapter to
any circumstance, is held invalid, the application of such provision to other
circumstances, and the remainder of this chapter must not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 7553, passed 3-15-2016)
§ 161.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Stormwater management permit. Unless otherwise exempted by §
161.03, an approved stormwater management permit shall be required prior to any
proposed land development activity that meets any of the criteria in (1)
through (5) of this division. All stormwater management permits shall include
an erosion and sediment control plan (ESC plan) or a stormwater pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP).
      (1)   Any project that creates or fully reconstruct 6,000 square feet or
more of impervious surface.
      (2)   All major subdivisions or minor subdivisions that are part of a
common plan of development.
      (3)   Projects within the St. Croix Riverway that add 500 square feet of
additional impervious surface.
      (4)   Any project requiring a variance from the current local impervious
surface zoning requirements for the property.
      (5)   Any land development activity, regardless of size, that the city
determines is likely to cause an adverse impact to an environmentally sensitive
area or other property.
   (B)   Erosion and sediment control plan. Unless otherwise exempted by §
161.03, a grading and filling permit including an erosion and sediment control
plan shall be required prior to any proposed land disturbing activity that
meets any of the criteria in (1) through (3) of this division.
      (1)   Any project undertaking grading, filling, or other land alteration
activities which involve movement of 100 cubic yards of earth or removal of
vegetation on greater than 10,000 square feet of land.
      (2)   Any project with wetland impacts, grading within public waters,
grading within buffers or within 40-feet of the bluff line.
      (3)   Any land disturbing activity, regardless of size, that the city
determines is likely to cause an adverse impact to an environmentally sensitive
area or other property, or may violate any other erosion and sediment control
standard set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   Buffers. 
      (1)   A buffer of unmowed natural vegetation shall be required upslope of
wetlands, lakes and streams prior to any proposed land development that meets
any of the criteria below, unless otherwise exempted in §
161.03.
      (2)   Sites that have been:
         (a)   Subdivided or split; or
         (b)   Subject to a new primary use for which a necessary rezoning,
special use permit or variance has been approved.
(Ord. 7553, passed 3-15-2016)
§ 161.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities shall be exempt from all of the requirements of
this chapter:
   (A)   Emergency work necessary to protect life, limb, or property;
   (B)   Routine agricultural activity such as tilling, planting, harvesting,
and associated activities. Other agricultural activities are not exempt
including activities such as construction of structures; or
   (C)   Silvicultural/forestry activity.
(Ord. 7553, passed 3-15-2016)
§ 161.04 DEFINITIONS.
   Words or phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings as defined by
Appendix B of the Minnesota Construction Stormwater Permit No: MN R100001
(Construction Permit) available at (http://www.pca.state.mn.us/wfhya5b). If not
defined in the construction permit, then words or phrases shall be interpreted
to have the meaning they have in common usage. Words or phrases shall be
interpreted so as to give this chapter its most reasonable application. For the
purpose of this chapter, the words MUST, SHALL, and WILL are mandatory and not
permissive.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land submitting an application under the provisions
of this chapter for a stormwater and/or erosion control permit to be issued by
the community.
   ATLAS 14. The precipitation frequency estimates released by the National
Weather Service Hydrometeorlogical Studies Design Center. Volume 8, released in
2013, provides precipitation frequency estimates for many midwestern states,
including Minnesota.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPs. The most effective and practicable means
of erosion prevention and sediment control, and water quality management
practices that are the most effective and practicable means to control,
prevent, and minimize degradation of surface water, including avoidance of
impacts, construction-phasing, minimizing the length of time soil areas are
exposed, prohibitions, pollution prevention through good housekeeping, and
other management practices published by state or designated area-wide planning
agencies.
   BETTER SITE DESIGN. The control and management of stormwater quantity and
quality through the application of better site design techniques as outlined in
the current version of the Minnesota Stormwater Manual: (http://
stormwater.pca.state.mn.us/index.php/Main_Page.). Better site design includes:
preservation of natural areas; site reforestation; stream and shoreland
buffers; open space design; disconnection of impervious cover; rooftop
disconnection; grass channels; stormwater landscaping; compost and amended
soils; impervious surface reduction; and trout stream protection.
   COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A contiguous area where multiple
separate and distinct land disturbing activities may be taking place at
different times, on different schedules, but under one proposed plan. One plan
is broadly defined to include design, permit application, advertisement or
physical demarcation indicating that land-disturbing activities may occur.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Includes construction activity as defined in 40 CFR
pt. 122.26(b)(14)(x) and small construction activity as defined in 40 CFR pt.
122.26(b)(15) and construction activity as defined by Minn. Rules 709.0080,
subp. 4. This includes a disturbance to the land that results in a change in
the topography, existing soil cover (both vegetative and non-vegetative), or
the existing soil topography that may result in accelerated stormwater runoff,
leading to soil erosion and movement of sediment into surface waters or
drainage systems. Examples of construction activity may include clearing,
grading, filling, and excavating. Construction activity includes the
disturbance of less than 1 acre of total land area that is a part of a larger
common plan of development or sale if the larger common plan will ultimately
disturb 1 acre or more. Construction activity does not include a disturbance to
the land of less than 5 acres for the purpose of routine maintenance that is
performed to maintain the original line and grade, hydraulic capacity, or
original purpose of the facility.
   DEVELOPMENT, NEW. Any development that results in the conversion of land
that is currently prairie, agriculture, forest, or meadow and has less than 15%
impervious surface. Land that was previously developed, but now razed and
vacant, will not be considered new development.
   DEWATERING. The removal of surface or ground water to dry and/or solidify a
construction site to enable construction activity. Dewatering may require a
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources (DNR) water appropriation permit, and
if dewatering water is contaminated, discharge of such water may require an
individual MPCA NPDES/SDS permit.
   ENERGY DISSIPATION. Methods employed at pipe outlets to prevent erosion
caused by the rapid discharge of water scouring soils. Examples include, but
are not limited to: concrete aprons, riprap, splash pads, and gabions that are
designed to prevent erosion.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN or ESC PLAN. A plan for projects
disturbing less than 1 acre that is in compliance with the minimum requirements
of the MSCWMO and VBWD. The plan identifies erosion prevention and sediment
control practices, location and timelines for installation. The plan also
includes responsible parties and timelines for inspection and maintenance.
   EROSION PREVENTION. Measures employed to prevent erosion. Examples include
but are not limited to: soil stabilization practices, limited grading, mulch,
temporary erosion protection or permanent cover, and construction phasing.
   FULLY RECONSTRUCTED IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Areas where impervious surfaces have
been removed down to the underlying soils. Activities such as structure
renovation, mill and overlay projects, and pavement rehabilitation projects
that do not alter underlying soil material beneath the structure, pavement, or
activity are not considered fully reconstructed impervious surfaces. Reusing
the entire existing building foundation and re-roofing of an existing building
are not considered fully reconstructed.
   GENERAL CONTRACTOR. The party who signs the construction contract with the
owner or operator to construct the project described in the final plans and
specifications. Where the construction project involves more than 1 contractor,
the general contractor could be the party responsible for managing the project
on behalf of the owner or operator. In some cases, the owner or operator may be
the general contractor. In these cases, the owner may contract an individual as
the operator who would become the co-permittee.
   GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE. A wide array of practices at multiple scales that
manage wet weather and that maintains or restores natural hydrology by
infiltrating, evapotranspiring, or harvesting and using stormwater. On a
regional scale, green infrastructure is the preservation or restoration of
natural landscape features, such as forests, floodplains and wetlands, coupled
with policies such as infill and redevelopment that reduce overall
imperviousness in a watershed. On a local scale, green infrastructure consists
of site and neighborhood-specific practices, such as bioretention, trees, green
roofs, permeable pavements and cisterns.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A constructed hard surface that either prevents or
retards the entry of water into the soil and causes water to run off the
surface in greater quantities and at an increased rate of flow than prior to
development. Examples include rooftops, sidewalks, patios, driveways, parking
lots, storage areas, and concrete, asphalt, or gravel roads.
   LAND DISTURBANCE. Any activity that results in a change or alteration in the
existing ground cover (both vegetative and nonvegetative) and/or the existing
soil topography. Land disturbing activities include, but are not limited to,
development, redevelopment, demolition, construction, reconstruction, clearing,
grading, filling, stockpiling, excavation, and borrow pits. Routine vegetation
management, and mill and overlay/resurfacing activities that do not alter the
soil material beneath the pavement base, are not considered land disturbance.
In addition, other maintenance activities such as catch basin and pipe repair/
replacement, lighting, and pedestrian ramp improvements shall not be considered
land disturbance for the purposes of determining permanent stormwater
management requirements.
   LINEAR PROJECT. Construction or reconstruction of roads, trails, sidewalks,
and rail lines that are not part of a common plan of development or sale. Mill,
overlay and other resurfacing projects are not considered to be reconstruction.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions
including, but not limited to, subdivisions of 4 or more lots, or any size
subdivision requiring any new street or extension of an existing street.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing 3 or less lots fronting on an
existing street, not part of a common plan of development nor involving any new
street or road or the extension of municipal facilities.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES. The program for
issuing, modifying, revoking, reissuing, terminating, monitoring, and enforcing
permits under the Clean Water Act (§§ 301, 318, 402, and 405) and CFR Title 33,
§§ 1317, 1328, 1342, and 1345.
   NORMAL WETTED PERIMETER. The area of a conveyance, such as a ditch, channel,
or pipe that is in contact with water during flow events that are expected to
occur from a 2-year 24-hour storm event.
   NOTICE OF TERMINATION. Notice to terminate coverage under this permit after
construction is complete, the site has undergone final stabilization, and
maintenance agreements for all permanent facilities have been established, in
accordance with all applicable conditions of this permit.
   OPERATOR. The person designated by the owner, who has day to day operational
control and/or the ability to modify project plans and specifications related
to the SWPPP. The operator must be named on the permit as the permittee.
   OWNER. The person or party possessing the title of the land on which the
construction activities will occur; or if the construction activity is for a
lease, easement, or mineral rights license holder, the party or individual
identified as the lease, easement or mineral rights license holder; or the
contracting government agency responsible for the construction activity.
   PERMANENT COVER. Surface types that will prevent soil failure under erosive
conditions. Examples include: gravel, asphalt, concrete, riprap, roof tops,
perennial cover, or other landscaped material that will permanently arrest soil
erosion. A uniform perennial vegetative cover (e.g., evenly distributed,
without large bare areas) with a density of 70% of the native background
vegetative cover for the area must be established on all unpaved areas and
areas not covered by permanent structures, or equivalent permanent
stabilization measures. Permanent cover does not include the practices listed
under temporary erosion protection.
   PERMITTEE. A person or persons, firm, or governmental agency or other entity
that signs the application submitted to the MPCA and is responsible for
compliance with the terms and conditions of the construction permit.
   PUBLIC WATERS. All water basins and watercourses that are described in M.S.
§ 103G.005 Subd. 15.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Any development that is not considered new development.
   RETAIN. Manage stormwater on site using a low-impact development approach so
that the rate and volume of predevelopment stormwater reaching receiving waters
is unchanged.
   ST. CROIX RIVERWAY. All lands and public waters within the riverway boundary
subject to the standards and criteria for the Lower Saint Croix National Scenic
Riverway in Minnesota.
   SATURATED SOIL. The highest seasonal elevation in the soil that is in a
reduced chemical state because of soil voids being filled with water. Saturated
soil is evidenced by the presence of redoximorphic features or other
information.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. Methods employed to prevent sediment from leaving the
site. Sediment control practices include: silt fences, sediment traps, earth
dikes, drainage swales, check dams, subsurface drains, bio rolls, rock logs,
compost logs, storm drain inlet protection, and temporary or permanent
sedimentation basins.
   SMALL CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Small construction activity as defined in 40
CFR part 122.26(b)(15). Small construction activities include clearing, grading
and excavating that result in land disturbance of equal to or greater than 1
acre and less than 5 acres. Small construction activity includes the
disturbance of less than 1 acre of total land area that is part of a larger
common plan of development or sale if the larger common plan will ultimately
disturb equal to or greater than 1 and less than 5 acres.
   STABILIZED. Exposed ground surface has been covered by appropriate materials
such as mulch, staked sod, riprap, erosion control blanket, mats or other
material that prevents erosion from occurring. Grass, agricultural crop or
other seeding alone is not stabilization. Mulch materials must achieve
approximately 90% ground coverage (typically 2 ton/acre).
   STANDARD PLATES. General drawings showing a common or repeated construction
activity or practice.
   STORMWATER. Defined under Minn. Rules 7077.0105, subp. 41(b), and includes
precipitation runoff, stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff, and any other surface
runoff and drainage.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN or SWPPP. A plan for stormwater
discharge that includes erosion prevention BMPs, sediment control BMPs and
permanent stormwater management systems that, when implemented, will decrease
soil erosion on a parcel of land and decrease off-site nonpoint pollution.
   SURFACE WATER or WATERS. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, wetlands,
reservoirs, springs, rivers, drainage systems, waterways, watercourses, and
irrigation systems whether natural or artificial, public or private, except
that surface waters do not include treatment basins or ponds that were
constructed from upland.
   TEMPORARY EROSION PROTECTION. Methods employed to prevent erosion during
construction activities. Examples of temporary erosion protection include;
straw, wood fiber blanket, wood chips, vegetation, mulch and rolled erosion
control products.
   UNDERGROUND WATERS or GROUNDWATER. Water contained below the surface of the
earth in the saturated zone including, without limitation, all waters whether
under confined, unconfined, or perched conditions, in near surface
unconsolidated sediment or regolith, or in rock formations deeper underground.
The term GROUNDWATER shall be synonymous with UNDERGROUND WATER.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. (As defined in M.S. § 115.01, Subd. 22) means all
streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses, waterways, wells, springs,
reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage systems and all other bodies
or accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial,
public or private, which are contained within, flow through, or border upon the
state or any portion thereof.
   WETLAND or WETLANDS. Defined in Minn. Rules 7050.0130, subp. F and includes
those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or ground water at
a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs,
and similar areas. Constructed wetlands designed for wastewater treatment are
not waters of the state. Wetlands must have the following attributes:
      (1)   A predominance of hydric soils;
      (2)   Inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic
vegetation typically adapted for life in a saturated soil condition; and
      (3)   Under normal circumstances support a prevalence of such vegetation.
(Ord. 7553, passed 3-15-2016)
§ 161.05 PERMIT REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Pre-application meeting. At the discretion of the Zoning
Administrator, the city shall facilitate a pre-application meeting with the
applicant, city staff (or their authorized representative), and staff of
relevant partner agencies (e.g. WCD, MSCWMO, MDNR, etc.). The purposes of the
meeting are to understand the general parameters of the proposed project and to
convey the requirements of meeting the provisions of the chapter.
   (B)   Application completeness review. The city shall make a determination
regarding the completeness of a permit application and notify the applicant in
writing if the application is not complete including the reasons the
application was deemed incomplete.
   (C)   Application review. The applicant shall not commence any construction
activity subject to this chapter until a permit has been authorized by the
city.
   (D)   Permit authorization. If the city determines that the application
meets the requirements of this chapter, the city will issue approval
authorizing the project or activity. The approval shall be valid for 1 year.
   (E)   Permit denial. If the city determines the application does not meet
the requirements of this chapter the application must be denied. If the
application is denied, the applicant will be notified of the denial in writing
including reasons for the denial. Once denied, a new application must be
resubmitted for approval before any activity may begin.
   (F)   Plan information requirements. The minimum information requirements of
the application shall be consistent with the requirements in the most recent
version of the NPDES/SDS construction stormwater general permit and Middle St.
Croix WMO. The application information must also include permanent treatment
information showing the proposed project meets the MSCWMO or VBWD performance
goals.
   (G)   Modification of permitted plans. The applicant must amend an approved
ESC plan or SWPPP to include additional requirements such as additional or
modified BMPs designed to correct problems whenever:
      (1)   There is a change in design, construction, operation, maintenance,
weather or seasonal conditions that has a significant effect on the discharge
of pollutants to surface water or underground water.
      (2)   Inspections or investigations by site operators, local, state or
federal officials indicate the plans are not effective in eliminating or
significantly minimizing the discharge of pollutants to surface water or
underground water or that the discharges are causing water quality standard
exceedances.
      (3)   The plan is not achieving the general objectives of minimizing
pollutants in stormwater discharges associated with construction activity.
   (H)   Permit completion. Before work under the permit is deemed complete,
the permittee must submit as-builts, a long term maintenance plan and
information demonstrating that the stormwater facilities conform to design
specifications.
(Ord. 7553, passed 3-15-2016)
§ 161.06 SITE DESIGN AND MIDS CALCULATOR.
   (A)   Better site design. Whenever possible, development projects shall be
designed using the better site design techniques of the current version of the
Minnesota Stormwater Manual.
   (B)   MIDS calculator. Final site design and choice of permanent stormwater
volume reduction practices shall be based on outcomes of the MIDS calculator
(or other model that shows the performance goal can be met) and shall meet the
performance goals in §
161.07.
   (C)   Buffer requirement. Buffer locations and widths must comply with the
State of Minnesota, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, and Middle St. Croix
Watershed Management Organization standards.
(Ord. 7553, passed 3-15-2016)
§ 161.07 STORMWATER VOLUME REDUCTION PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   Any applicant for a stormwater management permit as defined in §
161.02 must meet all of the following performance goals:
   (A)   New development volume control. For new, nonlinear developments on
sites without restrictions, stormwater runoff volumes will be controlled and
the post-construction runoff volume shall be retained on site for 1.1 inches of
runoff from all impervious surfaces on the site.
   (B)   Redevelopment volume control. Nonlinear redevelopment projects on
sites without restrictions that create or fully reconstruct impervious surfaces
shall capture and retain on site 1.1 inches of runoff from the new and/or fully
reconstructed impervious surfaces.
   (C)    Linear development volume control. Linear projects on sites without
restrictions that create new and/or fully reconstructed impervious surfaces,
shall capture and retain the larger of the following:
      (1)   0.55 inches of runoff from the new and fully reconstructed
impervious surfaces on the site; or
      (2)   1.1 inches of runoff from the net increase in impervious area on
the site. Mill and overlay and other resurfacing activities are not considered
fully reconstructed.
   (D)   Flexible treatment alternatives for sites with restrictions. Applicant
shall attempt to comply fully with the appropriate performance standards
described above. Alternatives considered and presented shall examine the merits
of relocating project elements to address varying soil conditions and other
constraints across the site. If full compliance is not possible due to any of
the factors listed below, the applicant must document the reason. If site
constraints or restrictions limit the full treatment goal, the following
flexible treatment alternatives shall be used:
      (1)   Applicant shall document the flexible treatment alternatives
sequence starting with Alternative #1. If Alternative #1 cannot be met, then
Alternative #2 shall be analyzed. Applicants must document the specific reasons
why Alternative #1 cannot be met based on the factors listed below. If
Alternative #2 cannot be met then Alternative #3 shall be met. Applicants must
document the specific reasons why Alternative #2 cannot be met based on the
factors listed below. When all of the conditions are fulfilled within an
alternative, this sequence is completed.
      (2)   Volume reduction techniques considered shall include infiltration,
reuse and rainwater harvesting, and canopy interception and evapotranspiration
and/or additional techniques included in the MIDS calculator and the Minnesota
Stormwater Manual.
      (3)   Higher priority shall be given to BMPs that include volume
reduction. Secondary preference is to employ filtration techniques, followed by
rate control BMPs. Factors to be considered for each alternative will include:
         (a)   Karst geology;
         (b)   Shallow bedrock;
         (c)   High groundwater;
         (d)   Hotspots or contaminated soils;
         (e)   Drinking water source management areas or within 200 feet of
drinking water well;
         (f)   Zoning, setbacks or other land use requirements; and
         (g)   Poor soils (infiltration rates that are too low or too high,
problematic urban soils).
      (4)   Alternative #1. Applicant attempts to comply with the following
conditions:
         (a)   Achieve at least 0.55-inch volume reduction from all impervious
surfaces if the site is new development or from the new and/or fully
reconstructed impervious surfaces for a redevelopment or linear development
site;
         (b)   Remove 75% of the annual TP load from all impervious surfaces if
the site is new development or from the new and/or fully reconstructed
impervious surfaces for a redevelopment site; and
         (c)   Options considered and presented shall examine the merits of
relocating project elements to address varying soil conditions and other
constraints across the site.
      (5)   Alternative #2. Applicant attempts to comply with the following
conditions:
         (a)   Achieve volume reduction to the maximum extent practicable;
         (b)   Remove 60% of the annual TP load from all impervious surfaces if
the site is new development or from the new and/or fully reconstructed
impervious surfaces for a redevelopment site; and
         (c)   Options considered and presented shall examine the merits of
relocating project elements to address varying soil conditions and other
constraints across the site.
      (6)   Alternative #3. Off-site treatment. Mitigation equivalent to the
performance of 1.1 inches of volume reduction for new development, linear
development or redevelopment as described above in this section, (including
banking or cash) can be performed off-site to protect the receiving water body.
Off-site treatment shall be achieved in areas selected in the following order
of preference:
         (a)   Locations that yield benefits to the same receiving water that
receives runoff from the original construction activity;
         (b)   Locations within the same Department of Natural Resource (DNR)
catchment area (Hydrologic Unit 08) as the original construction activity;
         (c)   Locations within the next adjacent DNR catchment area upstream;
and
         (d)   Locations anywhere within the city's jurisdiction. The MIDS
design sequence flowchart can be found in the Minnesota Stormwater Manual:
(http://stormwater.pca.state.mn.us/index.php/Flexible_treatment_options.)
(Ord. 7553, passed 3-15-2016)
§ 161.08 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT RATE CONTROL.
   For new development, redevelopment and linear development sites the site
design shall provide on-site treatment during construction and post-
construction to ensure no increase from existing conditions in offsite peak
discharge for the 1-year, 2-year, 10-year, and 100-year, 24-hour storm events
based on the standards defined by the MSCWMO or VBWD. For single family
residential building lots not part of a common plan of development site, rate
control requirements do not apply.
(Ord. 7553, passed 3-15-2016)
§ 161.09 OTHER DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minnesota Stormwater Manual. All volume control for water quality and
quantity and site design specifications shall conform to the current version of
the Minnesota Stormwater Manual.
   (B)   NPDES/SDS construction stormwater general permit. All volume control
and water quality and quantity best management practice design specifications
shall conform to the current version of the NPDES/SDS construction stormwater
general permit.
   (C)   Site erosion and sediment control requirements. All erosion and
sediment control requirements shall conform to the current requirements of
NPDES/SDS construction stormwater general permit.
   (D)   Watershed district/WMO requirements. All stormwater management and
erosion and sediment control activities shall comply with all applicable
requirements of the watershed districts or watershed management organizations
in which the project is located. In case provisions in this chapter and
requirements of the watershed district or watershed management organizations
overlap or conflict, the strictest provisions shall apply to the activities.
   (E)   Where applicable, a minimum of 20-feet shall be provided on all sides
of all publicly owned stormwater facilities for facility maintenance.
(Ord. 7553, passed 3-15-2016)
§ 161.10 INSPECTIONS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Inspections and record keeping.
      (1)   Applicant responsibilities. The applicant is responsible for
inspections and record keeping during and after construction for all privately-
owned stormwater treatment practices on the site.
      (2)   City inspections. The city reserves the right to conduct
inspections on a regular basis to ensure that both temporary and permanent
stormwater management and erosion and sediment control measures are properly
installed and maintained prior to construction, during construction, and at the
completion of the project.
   (B)   Right of entry and inspection; powers. The issuance of a permit
constitutes a right-of-entry for the city or its authorized representative to
enter upon the construction site. The applicant shall allow the city and its
authorized representatives, upon presentation of credentials, to:
      (1)   Enter upon the permitted site for the purpose of obtaining
information, examining records, and conducting investigations or surveys;
      (2)   Bring such equipment upon the permitted development as is necessary
to conduct such surveys and investigations;
      (3)   Examine and copy any books, papers, records, or memoranda
pertaining to activities or records required to be kept under the terms and
conditions of the permit;
      (4)   Inspect the stormwater pollution control measures;
      (5)   Sample and monitor any items or activities pertaining to stormwater
pollution control measures; and
      (6)   Correct deficiencies in stormwater and erosion and sediment control
measures.
   (C)   Fees. Fees will be applied per city fee schedule.
   (D)   Enforcement tools/stop work orders. The city reserves the right to
issue construction stop work orders when cooperation with inspections is
withheld or when a violation has been identified that needs immediate attention
to protect human health and/or the environment.
      (1)   Construction stop work order. The city may issue construction stop
work orders until stormwater management measures meet specifications and the
applicant repairs any damage caused by stormwater runoff. An inspection by the
city must follow before the construction project work can resume.
      (2)   Other actions to ensure compliance. The city can take any
combination of the following actions in the event of a failure by an applicant
to meet the terms of this chapter:
         (a)   Withhold inspections or issuance of certificates or approvals;
         (b)   Revoke any permit issued by the city to the applicant;
         (c)   Conduct remedial or corrective action on the development site or
adjacent site affected by the failure;
         (d)   Charge applicant for all costs associated with correcting the
failure or remediating damage from the failure; if payment is not made within
30 days, payment will be made from the applicant's financial securities;
         (e)   Bring other actions against the applicant to recover costs of
remediation or meeting the terms of this chapter; and
         (f)   Any person, firm or corporation failing to comply with or
violating any of these regulations, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
be subject to a fine or imprisonment or both. Each day that a separate
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   Long term inspection and maintenance of stormwater facilities.
      (1)   Private stormwater facilities.
         (a)   Maintenance plan required. No private stormwater facilities may
be approved unless a maintenance agreement is provided that defines who will
conduct the maintenance, the type of maintenance necessary to ensure effective
performance, and the maintenance intervals. All private stormwater facilities
shall be inspected by the property owner and maintained in proper condition by
the owner consistent with the performance goals for which they were originally
designed.
         (b)   Facility access. The applicant shall obtain all necessary
easements or other property interests to allow access to the facilities for
inspection or maintenance for both the responsible party and the city or
authorized representative.
         (c)   Removal of settled materials. All settled materials including
settled solids, shall be removed from ponds, sumps, grit chambers, and other
devices as necessary and disposed of properly.
         (d)   Inspections. All stormwater facilities within the city shall be
inspected by the property owner at a frequency consistent with the maintenance
plan. Inspection reports shall be provided to the city upon request.
      (2)   Public stormwater facilities.
         (a)   Acceptance of publicly owned facilities. Before work under the
permit is deemed complete; the permittee must submit as-builts and a
maintenance plan demonstrating at the time of final stabilization that the
stormwater facilities conform to design specifications. A final inspection
shall be required before the city accepts ownership of the stormwater
facilities.
         (b)   Maintenance. The city shall perform maintenance of publicly
owned stormwater facilities in accordance with their comprehensive stormwater
management plan and other regulatory requirements.
(Ord. 7553, passed 3-15-2016)
§ 161.11 FINANCIAL SECURITIES.
   (A)   Amount. At the discretion of the city, the city may require a
financial security from the applicant in an amount sufficient to cover the
entirety of the estimated costs of permitted and remedial work based on the
final design as established in a set financial security schedule determined by
the city.
   (B)   Release. The financial security shall not be released until all
permitted and remedial work is completed.
   (C)   Use by city. The financial security may be used by the city to
complete work not completed by the applicant.
   (D)   Form of security. The form of the financial security shall be 1 or a
combination of the following to be determined by the city:
      (1)   Cash deposit. A financial security for erosion and sediment
control, as determined by the city, shall be by cash deposit to the city. The
cash will be held by the city in a separate account.
      (2)   Security deposit. Deposit, either with the city, a responsible
escrow agent, or trust company, at the option of the city, either:
         (a)   An irrevocable letter of credit, negotiable bonds of the kind
approved for securing deposits of public money, or other instruments of credit
from 1 or more financial institutions, subject to regulation by the state and
federal government wherein said financial institution pledges funds are on
deposit and guaranteed for payment;
         (b)   Cash in U.S. currency; or
         (c)   Other forms and securities (e.g., disbursing agreement) as
approved by the city.
   (E)   City indemnity. This financial security shall hold the city free and
harmless from all suits or claims for damages resulting from the negligent
grading, removal, placement or storage of rock, sand, gravel, soil or other
like material within the city.
   (F)   Maintaining the financial security. If at any time during the course
of the work the balance of the financial security falls below 50% of the total
required deposit, the applicant shall make another deposit in the amount
necessary to restore the cash deposit to the required amount. If the applicant
does not bring the financial security back up to the required amount within 7
days after notification by the city that the amount has fallen below 50% of the
required amount the city may:
      (1)   Withhold inspections. Withhold the scheduling of inspections and/or
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy; or
      (2)   Revoke permits. Revoke any permit issued by the city to the
applicant for the site in question or any other of the applicant's sites within
the city's jurisdiction.
   (G)   Action against the financial security. The city may access the
financial security for remediation actions if any of the conditions listed
below exist. The city shall use the financial security to pay for remedial work
undertaken by the city, or a private contractor under contract with the city,
or to reimburse the city for all costs incurred in the process of remedial work
including, but not limited to, staff time and attorney's fees.
      (1)   Abandonment. The applicant ceases land disturbing activities and/or
filling and abandons the work site prior to completion of the grading plan.
      (2)   Failure to implement the SWPPP or ESC plan. The applicant fails to
conform to the grading plan and/or the SWPPP as approved by the city.
      (3)   Failure to perform. The BMPs utilized on the project fail within 1
year of installation.
      (4)   Failure to reimburse city. The applicant fails to reimburse the
city for corrective action taken.
   (H)   Proportional reduction of the financial security. When more than 1/
3 of the applicant's maximum exposed soil area achieves final stabilization,
the city can reduce the total required amount of the financial security by 1/3.
When more than 2/3 of the applicant's maximum exposed soil area achieves final
stabilization, the city can reduce the total required amount of the financial
security to 2/3 of the initial amount. This reduction in financial security
will be determined by the city.
   (I)   Returning the financial security. The security deposited with the city
for faithful performance of the SWPPP or the ESC plan and any related remedial
work shall be released 1 full year after the completion of the installation of
all stormwater pollution control measures, including vegetation establishment,
as shown on the SWPPP or ESC plan.
   (J)   Emergency action. If circumstances exist such that noncompliance with
this chapter poses an immediate danger to the public health, safety and
welfare, as determined by the city, the city may take emergency preventative
action. The city shall also take every reasonable action possible to contact
and direct the applicant to take any necessary action. Any cost to the city for
emergency action may be recovered from the applicant's financial security.
(Ord. 7553, passed 3-15-2016)
§ 161.12 ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
   (A)   Notification of failure of the permit. The city shall notify the
permit holder of the failure of the permit's measures.
      (1)   Initial contact. The initial contact will be to the party or
parties listed on the application and/or the SWPPP as contacts. Except during
an emergency action, 48-hours after notification by the city or 72-hours after
the failure of erosion and sediment control measures, whichever is less, the
city at its discretion, may begin corrective work. Such notification should be
in writing, but if it is verbal, a written notification should follow as
quickly as practical. If after making a good faith effort to notify the
responsible party or parties, the city has been unable to establish contact,
the city may proceed with corrective work. There are conditions when time is of
the essence in controlling erosion. During such a condition the city may take
immediate action, and then notify the applicant as soon as possible.
      (2)   Erosion off-site. If erosion breaches the perimeter of the site,
the applicant shall immediately develop a cleanup and restoration plan, obtain
the right-of-entry from the adjoining property owner, and implement the cleanup
and restoration plan within 48-hours of obtaining the adjoining property
owner's permission. In no case, unless written approval is received from the
city, may more than 7 calendar days go by without corrective action being
taken. If in the discretion of the city, the permit holder does not repair the
damage caused by the erosion, the city may do the remedial work required. When
restoration to wetlands and other resources are required, the applicant shall
be required to work with the appropriate agencies to ensure that the work is
done properly.
      (3)   Erosion into streets, wetlands or water bodies. If eroded soils
(including tracked soils from construction activities) enter or appear likely
to enter streets, wetlands, or other water bodies, cleanup and repair shall be
immediate. The applicant shall provide all traffic control and flagging
required to protect the traveling public during the cleanup operations.
      (4)   Failure to do corrective work. When an applicant fails to conform
to any provision of this policy within the time stipulated, the city may take
the following actions:
         (a)   Stop work order. Issue a stop work order, withhold the
scheduling of inspections, and/or withhold the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy;
         (b)   Permit revocation.  Revoke any permit issued by the city to the
applicant for the site in question or any other of the applicant's sites within
the city's jurisdiction;
         (c)   Correction by city.  Correct the deficiency or hire a contractor
to correct the deficiency;
            1.   The applicant will be required to reimburse the city for all
costs incurred in correcting stormwater pollution control deficiencies. If
payment is not made within 30 days after costs are incurred by the city,
payment will be made from the applicant's financial securities as described in
§
161.11; and
            2.   If there is an insufficient financial amount in the
applicant's financial securities as described in §
161.08, the city may assess the remaining amount against the property. As a
condition of the permit, the owner shall waive notice of any assessment hearing
to be conducted by the city, concur that the benefit to the property exceeds
the amount of the proposed assessment, and waive all rights by virtue of M.S. §
429.081 to challenge the amount or validity of assessment.
   (B)   Misdemeanor. Any person, firm or corporation failing to comply with,
or violating any of these regulations, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and be subject to a fine or imprisonment or both.
      (1)   All land use and building permits may be suspended until the
applicant has corrected the violation.
      (2)   Each separate violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 7553, passed 3-15-2016)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res. Date Passed Subject
                      Granting a franchise for electric distribution system to
7480      4-21-1998   Northern States Power Company, for a period of 20 years
                      from September 8, 1995
(Prior Code, § 1702)
                      Granting a franchise for transportation, distribution,
7506      4-18-2006   manufacture and sale of gas energy to Centerpoint Energy
                      Resources Corp., d/b/a Centerpoint Energy Minnesota Gas,
                      for a period of 20 years
(Prior Code, § 1701)
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
Reference to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cite Code Section
M.S. Cite               Code Section
Chapter 13              30.35
14.57–14.69           110.02
15.73, Subd. 3          96.03
16.861                  159.007
Chapter 40              152.03
84.415                  155.046
84.872                  72.05
Chapter 103B            161.01
Chapter 103D            161.01
Chapter 103F            154.01
Chapter 103G            159.147
103G.005, Subd. 14      154.25
103G.005, Subd. 15      157.05,
                        161.04
103G.005, Subd. 19      157.05
103G.201                157.05
103G.291                52.75
105.484                 159.030
115.01, Subd. 22        161.04
115.03, Subd. 5c        161.01
115.55                  157.01,
                        157.02
115.55, Subd. 6         157.05,
                        157.18
115.56                  157.01
115A.93 Subd.3.(c)      50.05
115A.931 Subd.(c)       50.09
115A.941(a)             50.04
115A.941(b)             50.08
144.011 et seq.         52.61
144.382, Subd. 4        52.76
144.391                 114.01
144.411– 411.417      113.55
Chapter 145A            157.01
145A                    157.03
152.01                  72.06
152.0263, Subd. 5       117.02
160.27                  70.01
Chapter 168             70.01,
                        72.30
168.011 et seq.         71.01
168.011, Subd. 3        71.01
168B.011, Subd. 3       93.06
Chapter 169             70.01,
                        72.30
169.01 et seq.          70.03
169.045                 70.03
169.045, Subd. 1        70.03
169.522                 70.03
169.70                  70.03
169.825                 70.02
169.87, Subd. 1         70.02
Chapter 171             70.03,
                        72.30
171.02                  70.01
171.03                  70.01
171.04                  70.01
171.05                  70.01
171.08                  70.01
171.11                  70.01
171.22                  70.01
171.24                  70.01
Chapter 201             30.01
211B.045                159.188
216B.02                 96.03
216B.02, Subds. 4 and 6 96.03
                        95.25,
Chapter 216D            96.05,
                        96.15
216D.01-.09             96.15,
                        96.24
216D.04, Subd. 3        96.03
222.37                  95.28
237.16                  96.01
237.79                  96.01
237.81                  96.01
                        96.01,
237.162                 96.03,
                        96.17
237.162, Subd. 4        96.03
                        96.01,
237.163                 96.03,
                        96.17
237.163, Subd. 2(b)     96.01,
                        96.02
237.163, Subd. 6        96.29
Chapter 238             95.20,
                        96.03
238.086                 96.01
260B.235, Subd. 4       130.99
273.111, Subd. 6        159.007
300.06                  96.06
303.06                  111.07
Chapter 308A            96.03
Chapter 324             151.01
325E.046                50.09
325J.04, Subd. 2        111.11
326B.121                150.01
326B.133                150.01
326B.148                150.01
327.31–327.35         159.134
Chapter 329             112.03
333.01                  111.07
                        113.01,
Chapter 340A            113.11,
                        113.41,
                        113.42
                        72.06,
340A.101                92.02,
                        113.55
340A.404                92.02
340A.404, Subd. 12      92.02
340A.412, Subd. 1       113.03
340A.414                92.02
340A.504, Subd. 3       113.56
Chapter 342             117.01,
                        117.07
342.01                  117.05,
                        117.11
342.01 et seq.          117.11
342.01, Subd. 50        117.05
342.08–342.25         117.10
342.11                  117.07
342.13(c)               117.02
342.22                  117.02,
                        117.07
342.22, Subd. 3(b)      117.07
342.22, Subd. 4(b)      117.09
342.22, Subd. 5         117.07
342.22, Subd. 5(e)      117.07
342.24                  117.09
342.24, Subd. 1         117.09
342.27, Subd. 5         117.09
342.27, Subd. 12        117.09
342.39, Subd. 2         117.11
342.46, Subd. 7         117.09
342.62                  117.09
342.63                  117.09
342.64                  117.09
347.50                  90.01,
                        90.43
                        116.04,
Chapter 349             116.05,
                        116.12
349.12, Subd. 25        116.03,
                        116.08
349.213                 116.06
360.55, Subd. 6         92.02
364.03, Subd. 2         111.07
364.03, Subd. 3         111.07
366.012                 32.05
Chapter 394             156.01
Chapter 412             30.15
412.151                 52.76
415.01                  32.01
Chapter 429             93.25,
                        96.22
429.061                 93.10
429.081                 161.12
                        93.10,
429.101                 93.25,
                        93.46
Chapter 453             96.03
Chapter 453A            96.03
461.18                  114.15
                        96.22,
Chapter 462             154.01,
                        161.01
462.357                 117.02,
                        159.026
462.357, Subd. 1(e)     117.09,
                        117.10
462.359                 159.007,
                        159.023
463.17                  93.09
Chapter 505             158.03
609.685                 114.02,
                        114.15
617.241                 115.02
618.01                  115.07
626.862                 10.20
                        
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2009 Code
Prior Code    2009 Code
103.01        10.05
103.02        10.05
103.03        10.05
104.01        10.98
104.02        10.98
104.03        10.98
104.04        10.98
104.05        10.98
104.06        10.98
104.07        10.98
201.01        30.01
201.02        30.01
202.01        30.02
203.01        30.15
204.01        30.16
205.01        30.30
205.02        30.31
205.03        31.01-
              31.04
205.04        30.32
205.05        30.33
205.06        30.34
205.07        30.35
205.08        30.50
205.09        30.51
205.10        30.36
206.01        30.52
206.02        30.52
206.03        30.52
207.01        31.15
207.02        31.16
207.03        31.17
207.04        31.18
208.01        31.30
208.02        31.31
208.03        31.32
208.04        31.33
208.05        31.34
208.06        31.35
208.07        31.36
208.08        31.37
208.09        31.38
208.10        31.39
300 § 101.01 159.001
300 § 201.01 159.002
300 § 202.01 159.002
300 § 203.01 159.003
300 § 203.02 159.003
300 § 203.03 159.003
300 § 203.04 159.003
300 § 203.05 159.003
300 § 203.06 159.003
300 § 203.07 159.003
             300 § 203.08
              159.003
300 § 203.09 159.003
300 § 203.10 159.003
300 § 203.11 159.003
300 § 203.12 159.003
300 § 301    159.007
300 § 401.01 159.004
300 § 401.02 159.004
300 § 401.03 159.004
300 § 402.01 159.005
300 § 402.02 159.005
300 § 402.03 159.005
300 § 402.04 159.005
300 § 402.05 159.005
300 § 402.06 159.005
300 § 402.07 159.005
300 § 402.08 159.005
300 § 402.09 159.005
300 § 501.01 159.020
300 § 502.01 159.021
300 § 502.02 159.021
300 § 503.01 159.022
300 § 503.02 159.022
300 § 504.01 159.023
300 § 504.02 159.023
300 § 504.03 159.023
300 § 504.04 159.023
300 § 504.05 159.023
300 § 504.06 159.023
300 § 505.01 159.024
300 § 505.02 159.024
300 § 505.03 159.024
300 § 505.04 159.024
300 § 505.05 159.024
300 § 505.06 159.024
300 § 505.07 159.024
300 § 505.08 159.024
300 § 505.09 159.024
300 § 505.10 159.024
300 § 505.11 159.024
300 § 505.12 159.024
300 § 506.01 159.025
300 § 506.02 159.025
300 § 506.03 159.025
300 § 506.04 159.025
300 § 506.05 159.025
300 § 506.06 159.025
300 § 506.07 159.025
300 § 506.08 159.025
300 § 507.01 159.060
300 § 507.02 159.061
300 § 507.03 159.062
300 § 507.04 159.063
300 § 507.05 159.064
300 § 507.06 159.065
300 § 507.07 159.066
300 § 507.08 159.067
300 § 507.09 159.068
300 § 508.01 159.026
300 § 508.02 159.026
300 § 508.03 159.026
300 § 508.04 159.026
300 § 508.05 159.026
300 § 508.06 159.026
300 § 508.07 159.026
300 § 508.08 159.026
300 § 508.09 159.026
300 § 508.10 159.026
300 § 508.11 159.026
300 § 508.12 159.026
300 § 509.01 159.027
300 § 509.02 159.027
300 § 509.03 159.027
300 § 509.04 159.027
300 § 509.05 159.027
300 § 510.01 159.028
300 § 510.02 159.028
300 § 510.03 159.028
300 § 510.04 159.028
300 § 511.01 159.029
300 § 511.02 159.029
300 § 512.01 159.030
300 § 512.02 159.030
300 § 512.03 159.030
300 § 512.04 159.030
300 § 512.05 159.030
300 § 512.06 159.030
300 § 512.07 159.030
300 § 512.08 159.030
300 § 512.09 159.030
300 § 512.10 159.030
300 § 512.11 159.030
300 § 512.12 159.030
300 § 512.13 159.030
300 § 512.14 159.030
300 § 512.15 159.030
300 § 512.16 159.030
300 § 512.17 159.030
300 § 601.01 159.040
300 § 601.02 159.040
300 § 601.03 159.040
300 § 601.04 159.040
300 § 602.01 159.041
300 § 602.02 159.041
300 § 602.03 159.041
300 § 602.04 159.041
300 § 602.05 159.041
300 § 602.06 159.041
300 § 603.01 159.042
300 § 603.02 159.042
300 § 603.03 159.042
300 § 604    159.043
300 § 604.01 159.043
300 § 605.01 159.044
300 § 605.02 159.044
300 § 606.01 159.045
300 § 606.02 159.045
300 § 608.01 159.046
300 § 608.02 159.046
300 § 609.01 159.047
300 § 700.01 159.080
300 § 701.01 159.081
300 § 701.02 159.081
300 § 701.03 159.081
300 § 701.04 159.081
300 § 701.05 159.081
300 § 702.01 159.082
300 § 702.02 159.082
300 § 702.03 159.082
300 § 702.04 159.082
300 § 702.05 159.082
300 § 702.06 159.082
300 § 702.07 159.082
300 § 703.01 159.083
300 § 703.02 159.083
300 § 703.03 159.083
300 § 703.04 159.083
300 § 703.05 159.083
300 § 703.07 159.083
300 § 703.08 159.083
300 § 703.09 159.083
300 § 703.10 159.083
300 § 703.11 159.083
300 § 703.12 159.083
300 § 703.13 159.083
300 § 703.15 159.083
300 § 703.16 159.083
300 § 703.17 159.083
300 § 703.18 159.083
300 § 704.01 159.085
300 § 705.01 159.086
300 § 705.02 159.086
300 § 705.03 159.086
300 § 705.04 159.086
300 § 705.05 159.086
300 § 706.01 159.087
300 § 706.02 159.087
300 § 706.03 159.087
300 § 706.04 159.087
300 § 706.05 159.087
300 § 706.06 159.087
300 § 707.01 159.145
300 § 707.02 159.145
300 § 707.03 159.145
300 § 708.01 159.153
300 § 708.02 159.153
300 § 708.03 159.153
300 § 708.04 159.153
300 § 709.01 159.154
300 § 709.02 159.154
300 § 709.03 159.154
300 § 710.01 159.155
300 § 711.01 159.157
300 § 711.02 159.157
300 § 711.03 159.157
300 § 711.04 159.157
300 § 711.05 159.157
300 § 711.06 159.157
300 § 711.07 159.157
300 § 712.01 159.160
300 § 712.02 159.160
300 § 712.03 159.160
300 § 712.04 159.160
300 § 712.05 159.160
300 § 712.06 159.160
300 § 712.07 159.160
300 § 712.08 159.160
300 § 712.09 159.160
300 § 713.01 159.161
300 § 713.02 159.161
300 § 713.03 159.161
300 § 713.04 159.161
300 § 713.05 159.161
300 § 713.06 159.161
300 § 714.01 159.162
300 § 714.02 159.162
300 § 714.03 159.162
300 § 715.01 159.151
300 § 716.01 159.152
300 § 717.01 159.088
300 § 718.01 159.103
300 § 718.02 159.103
300 § 718.03 159.103
300 § 718.04 159.103
300 § 719.01 159.084
300 § 720.01 159.110
300 § 720.02 159.110
300 § 720.03 159.110
300 § 720.04 159.110
300 § 720.05 159.110
300 § 720.06 159.110
300 § 720.07 159.110
300 § 720.08 159.110
300 § 720.09 159.110
300 § 720.10 159.110
300 § 721.01 159.163
300 § 722.01 159.164
300 § 723.01 159.165
300 § 723.02 159.165
300 § 723.03 159.165
300 § 723.04 159.165
300 § 724.01 159.166
300 § 724.02 159.166
300 § 724.03 159.166
300 § 724.04 159.166
300 § 725.01 159.111
300 § 726.01 159.112
300 § 726.02 159.112
300 § 726.03 159.112
300 § 726.04 159.112
300 § 727.01 159.180
300 § 727.02 159.181
300 § 727.03 159.182
300 § 727.04 159.183
300 § 727.05 159.184
300 § 727.06 159.185
300 § 727.07 159.186
300 § 727.08 159.187
300 § 727.09 159.188
300 § 727.10 159.189
300 § 727.11 159.190
300 § 727.12 159.191
300 § 727.14 159.192
300 § 727.15 159.193
300 § 727.16 159.194
300 § 727.17 159.195
300 § 727.18 159.195
300 § 727.19 159.197
300 § 727.20 159.198
300 § 727.21 159.199
300 § 727.23 159.200
300 § 727.24 159.201
300 § 727.25 159.202
300 § 727.26 159.203
300 § 727.27 159.204
300 § 728.01 159.090
300 § 728.02 159.090
300 § 728.03 159.090
300 § 728.04 159.090
300 § 728.05 159.090
300 § 728.06 159.090
300 § 728.07 159.090
300 § 728.28 159.205
300 § 729.01 159.113
300 § 729.02 159.113
300 § 729.03 159.113
300 § 729.04 159.113
300 § 729.05 159.113
300 § 729.06 159.113
300 § 729.07 159.113
300 § 729.08 159.113
300 § 729.09 159.113
300 § 730.01 159.114
300 § 730.02 159.114
300 § 730.03 159.114
300 § 730.04 159.114
300 § 730.05 159.114
300 § 730.06 159.114
300 § 730.07 159.114
300 § 730.08 159.114
300 § 731.01 159.130
300 § 731.02 159.130
300 § 731.03 159.130
300 § 731.04 159.130
300 § 731.05 159.130
300 § 731.06 159.130
300 § 731.07 159.130
300 § 731.08 159.130
300 § 731.09 159.130
300 § 731.10 159.130
300 § 731.11 159.130
300 § 732.01 159.131
300 § 732.02 159.131
300 § 732.03 159.131
300 § 732.04 159.131
300 § 732.05 159.131
300 § 732.06 159.131
300 § 732.07 159.131
300 § 732.08 159.131
300 § 732.09 159.131
300 § 732.10 159.131
300 § 732.11 159.131
300 § 733.01 159.133
300 § 733.02 159.133
300 § 733.03 159.133
300 § 733.04 159.133
300 § 733.05 159.133
300 § 733.06 159.133
300 § 733.07 159.133
300 § 734.01 159.133
300 § 734.02 159.133
300 § 734.03 159.133
300 § 734.04 159.133
300 § 734.05 159.133
300 § 735.01 159.115
300 § 735.02 159.115
300 § 735.03 159.115
300 § 735.04 159.115
300 § 735.05 159.115
300 § 735.06 159.115
300 § 736.01 159.100
300 § 736.02 159.100
300 § 736.03 159.100
300 § 736.04 159.100
300 § 736.05 159.100
300 § 736.06 159.100
300 § 736.07 159.100
300 § 736.08 159.100
300 § 736.09 159.100
300 § 736.10 159.100
300 § 736.11 159.100
300 § 736.12 159.100
300 § 737.01 159.101
300 § 737.02 159.101
300 § 737.03 159.101
300 § 737.04 159.101
300 § 737.05 159.101
300 § 737.06 159.101
300 § 737.07 159.101
300 § 737.08 159.101
300 § 738.01 159.102
300 § 738.02 159.102
300 § 738.03 159.102
300 § 738.04 159.102
300 § 738.05 159.102
300 § 739.01 159.116
300 § 739.02 159.116
300 § 739.03 159.116
300 § 739.04 159.116
300 § 739.05 159.116
300 § 739.06 159.116
300 § 739.07 159.116
300 § 740.01 159.146
300 § 740.02 159.146
300 § 740.03 159.146
300 § 740.04 159.146
300 § 740.05 159.146
300 § 741.01 159.147
300 § 741.02 159.147
300 § 742.01 159.148
300 § 742.02 159.148
300 § 742.03 159.148
300 § 742.04 159.148
300 § 742.05 159.148
300 § 742.06 159.148
300 § 743.01 159.149
300 § 744.01 159.150
300 § 744.02 159.150
300 § 744.03 159.150
300 § 744.04 159.150
300 § 744.05 159.150
300 § 744.06 159.150
300 § 744.07 159.150
300 § 744.08 159.150
300 § 744.09 159.150
300 § 745.01 159.158
300 § 745.02 159.158
300 § 745.03 159.158
300 § 745.04 159.158
300 § 745.05 159.158
300 § 746.01 159.159
300 § 746.02 159.159
300 § 746.03 159.159
300 § 746.04 159.159
300 § 747.01 159.089
300 § 748.01 159.156
300 § 748.02 159.156
300 § 748.03 159.156
300 § 748.04 159.156
300 § 749.01 159.104
300 § 749.02 159.104
300 § 749.03 159.104
300 § 749.04 159.104
300 § 749.05 159.104
300 § 749.06 159.104
300 § 750.01 159.134
300 § 750.02 159.134
300 § 801.01 159.999
300 § 801.02 159.999
300 § 801.03 159.220
300 § 801.04 159.220
300 § 901.02 159.006
300 § 901.03 159.006
302 § 101    155.001
302 § 202    155.002
302 § 301.01 155.004
302 § 301.02 155.004
302 § 301.03 155.004
302 § 302.01 155.004
302 § 401.01 155.015
302 § 401.02 155.015
302 § 401.03 155.015
302 § 402.01 155.016
302 § 402.02 155.016
302 § 402.03 155.016
302 § 402.04 155.016
302 § 501    155.025
302 § 502.01 155.026
302 § 502.02 155.026
302 § 503    155.027
302 § 503.03 155.027
302 § 503.04 155.027
302 § 504.01 155.028
302 § 504.02 155.028
302 § 504.03 155.028
302 § 505.01 155.029
302 § 506.01 155.030
302 § 601.01 155.040
302 § 601.02 155.040
302 § 601.03 155.040
302 § 601.04 155.040
302 § 602.01 155.041
302 § 602.02 155.041
302 § 603.01 155.042
302 § 603.02 155.042
302 § 604.01 155.043
302 § 605.01 155.044
302 § 605.02 155.044
302 § 605.03 155.044
302 § 606.01 155.045
302 § 607.01 155.046
302 § 608.01 155.047
302 § 701.01 155.060
302 § 702.01 155.061
302 § 702.02 155.061
302 § 703.01 155.062
302 § 801.01 155.075
302 § 801.02 155.075
302 § 801.03 155.075
302 § 801.04 155.075
302 § 803.01 155.077
302 § 804    155.078
302 § 805.01 155.079
302 § 805.02 155.079
302 § 806.01 155.080
302 § 807.01 155.081
302 § 901.01 155.999
302 § 901.02 155.082
302 § 902.03 155.003
302 § 902.04 155.003
Ch. 401       158.01
401 § 101.01 158.02
401 § 101.02 158.02
401 § 201.01 158.03
401 § 201.02 158.03
401 § 301.01 158.05
401 § 301.02 158.05
401 § 401.01 158.15
401 § 401.02 158.15
401 § 401.03 158.15
401 § 401.04 158.15
401 § 401.05 158.15
401 § 401.06 158.15
401 § 401.07 158.15
401 § 401.08 158.15
401 § 401.09 158.15
401 § 401.10 158.15
401 § 401.11 158.15
401 § 401.12 158.15
401 § 401.13 158.15
401 § 401.14 158.15
401 § 501.01 158.16
401 § 501.02 158.16
401 § 501.03 158.16
401 § 501.04 158.16
401 § 501.05 158.16
401 § 501.06 158.16
401 § 501.07 158.16
401 § 501.08 158.16
401 § 601.01 158.17
401 § 601.02 158.17
401 § 601.03 158.17
401 § 601.04 158.17
401 § 701.01 158.18
401 § 701.02 158.18
401 § 801.01 158.30
401 § 801.02 158.30
401 § 801.03 158.30
401 § 801.04 158.30
401 § 801.05 158.30
401 § 801.06 158.30
401 § 801.07 158.30
401 § 901.01 158.31
401 § 901.02 158.31
401 § 901.03 158.31
401 § 901.04 158.31
401 § 901.05 158.31
401 § 901.06 158.31
401 § 901.07 158.31
401 § 1001.01158.32
401 § 1001.02158.32
401 § 1001.03158.32
401 § 1001.04158.32
401 § 1101.01158.19
401 § 1101.02158.19
401 § 1101.03158.19
401 § 1101.04158.19
401 § 1101.05158.19
401 § 1101.06158.19
401 § 1101.07158.19
401 § 1101.08158.19
401 § 1201.01158.20
401 § 1301.01158.04
403.010       152.01
403.020       152.02
403.030       152.03
403.040       152.04
403.050       152.05
403.060       152.06
403.070       152.07
403.080       152.15
403.090       152.16
403.100       152.17
403.110       152.18
403.120       152.19
403.130       152.20
403.140       152.21
403.150       152.22
403.160       152.23
403.170       152.24
403.180       152.25
403.190       152.26
403.200       152.27
403.210       152.40
403.220       152.41
403.230       152.42
403.240       152.43
403.250       152.44
403.260       152.45
403.270       152.46
403.280       152.47
403.290       152.48
403.310       152.49
403.320       152.50
404           152.64
404.010       152.60
404.020       152.61
404.030       152.62
404.040       152.63
404.050       152.64
501.04        150.01
502.010       151.01
502.020       151.02
502.030       151.03
502.040       151.04
502.050       151.05
502.060       151.06
503.010       150.30
505.010       91.01
505.020       91.02
505.030       91.03
505.040       91.04
505.045       91.05
505.050       91.99
506 § 1.2    157.01
506 § 2.1    157.05
506 § 3.1    157.02
506 § 3.2    157.02
506 § 3.3    157.02
506 § 3.4    157.02
506 § 3.5    157.02
506 § 3.6    157.02
506 § 3.7    157.02
506 § 3.8    157.02
506 § 3.9    157.02
506 § 3.10   157.02
506 § 3.11   157.02
506 § 3.12   157.02
506 § 3.13   157.02
506 § 4.1    157.16
506 § 4.2    157.16
506 § 4.3    157.16
506 § 4.4    157.16
506 § 4.5    157.16
             506 § 4.6
              157.16
506 § 4.7    157.16
506 § 4.8    157.16
506 § 5.1    157.17
506 § 5.2    157.17
506 § 5.3    157.17
506 § 5.4    157.17
506 § 5.5    157.17
506 § 5.6    157.17
506 § 5.7    157.17
506 § 5.8    157.17
506 § 6.1    157.18
506 § 6.2    157.18
506 § 6.3    157.18
506 § 6.4    157.18
506 § 6.5    157.18
506 § 6.6    157.18
506 § 6.7    157.18
506 § 6.8    157.18
506 § 6.9    157.18
506 § 7.1    157.15
506 § 7.2    157.15
506 § 7.3    157.15
506 § 7.4    157.15
506 § 8.1    157.19
506 § 8.2    157.19
506 § 8.3    157.19
506 § 8.4    157.19
506 § 9.1    157.20
506 § 9.2    157.20
506 § 9.3    157.20
506 § 9.4    157.20
506 § 9.5    157.20
506 § 9.6    157.20
506 § 9.7    157.20
506 § 9.8    157.20
506 § 9.9    157.20
506 § 10.1   157.21
506 § 10.2   157.21
506 § 10.3   157.21
506 § 11.1   157.35
506 § 11.2   157.35
506 § 11.3   157.35
506 § 11.4   157.35
506 § 11.5   157.35
506 § 11.6   157.35
506 § 11.7   157.35
506 § 11.8   157.35
506 § 11.9   157.35
506 § 11.10  157.35
506 § 12.1   157.36
506 § 12.2   157.36
506 § 12.3   157.36
506 § 13.2   157.37
506 § 13.3   157.37
506 § 14.1   157.38
506 § 14.2   157.38
506 § 14.3   157.38
506 § 14.4   157.38
506 § 14.5   157.38
506 § 14.6   157.38
506 § 14.7   157.38
506 § 14.8   157.38
506 § 14.9   157.38
506 § 14.10  157.38
506 § 14.11  157.38
506 § 15.1   157.39
506 § 15.2   157.39
506 § 15.3   157.39
506 § 15.4   157.39
506 § 15.5   157.39
506 § 15.6   157.39
506 § 15.7   157.39
506 § 15.8   157.39
506 § 16.1   157.40
506 § 16.2   157.40
506 § 16.3   157.40
506 § 17.1   157.41
506 § 17.2   157.41
506 § 17.3   157.41
506 § 17.4   157.41
506 § 17.5   157.41
506 § 17.6   157.41
506 § 17.7   157.41
506 § 17.8   157.41
506 § 17.9   157.41
506 § 17.10  157.41
506 § 18.1   157.42
506 § 18.2   157.42
506 § 18.3   157.42
506 § 19.1   157.99
506 § 19.2   157.03
506 § 19.3   157.03
506 § 20.1   157.04
507.010       153.01
507.020       153.02
507.030       153.03
507.040       153.04
507.050       153.05
507.060       153.06
507.070       153.07
507.080       153.08
507.090       153.09
507.110       153.10
508.010       51.01
508.020       51.02
508.030       51.03
508.040       51.04
508.050       51.05
508.060       51.06
508.070       51.07
508.080       51.08
509.010       52.60
509.020       52.61
509.030       52.62
509.040       52.63
509.050       52.64
509.060       52.99
511.01        33.01
511.02        33.01
511.03        33.01
600.010       95.01
600.020       95.02
600.030       95.03
600.040       95.04
600.050       95.05
600.060       95.06
600.070       95.07
600.080       95.08
600.090       95.09
801.010       50.01
801.020       50.02
801.030       50.03
801.035       50.04
801.040       50.05
801.050       50.06
901 § 1.1    156.01
901 § 1.2    156.01
901 § 2.1    156.02
901 § 3.1    156.15
901 § 3.2    156.15
901 § 3.3    156.15
901 § 4.1    156.05
901 § 5.1    156.16
901 § 5.2    156.16
901 § 5.3    156.16
901 § 5.4    156.16
901 § 5.5    156.16
901 § 5.6    156.16
901 § 5.7    156.16
901 § 5.8    156.16
901 § 5.9    156.16
901 § 5.10   156.16
901 § 5.11   156.16
901 § 5.12   156.16
901 § 6.1    156.17
901 § 7.1    156.18
901 § 7.2    156.18
901 § 7.3    156.18
901 § 7.4    156.18
901 § 7.5    156.18
901 § 7.6    156.18
901 § 7.7    156.18
901 § 7.8    156.18
901 § 8.1    156.03
901 § 8.3    156.03
901 § 8.4    156.03
901 § 9.1    156.99
901 § 9.2    156.20
901 § 9.3    156.20
901 § 10.1   156.19
901 § 10.2   156.19
901 § 11.1   156.04
1001.010      72.01
1001.020      72.02
1001.030      72.03
1001.040      72.04
1001.050      72.05
1001.060      72.06
1001.070      72.07
1001.080      72.08
1001.090      72.09
1001.100      72.10
1001.110      72.11
1002.010      70.01
1002.020      70.02
1002.030      70.03
1003.010      70.16
1004.010      71.01
1004.020      71.02
1004.030      71.03
1005.010      70.15
1006.010      72.30
1006.020      72.31
1006.030      72.32
1102.010      110.22
1102.020      110.23
1102.030      110.24
1103.020      110.01
1103.030      110.02
1103.040      110.03
1103.050      110.04
1103.060      110.05
1201.010      113.01
1201.020      113.02
1201.030      113.03
1201.040      113.04
1201.050      113.05
1201.060      113.06
1201.070      113.07
1201.080      113.08
1201.090      113.09
1201.100      113.10
1201.110      113.11
1202.010      113.30
1202.020      113.31
1202.030      113.32
1202.040      113.33
1202.050      113.34
1202.060      113.35
1202.070      113.36
1202.080      113.37
1202.090      113.38
1202.100      113.39
1202.110      113.40
1202.120      113.41
1202.130      113.42
1202.140      113.43
1202.150      113.44
1202.160      113.45
1202.170      113.46
1203.010      113.55
1203.020      113.56
1203.030      113.57
1301.010      32.01
1301.020      32.02
1301.030      32.03
1301.040      32.04
1301.050      32.05
1301.060      32.06
1301.070      32.07
1401.010      90.01
1401.015      90.02
1401.020      90.03
1401.030      90.04
1401.040      90.05
1401.050      90.06
1401.070      90.07
1401.080      90.25
1401.090      90.26
1401.110      90.42
1401.120      90.45
1401.130      90.43
1401.140      90.44
1401.150      90.41
1401.160      90.08
1401.170      90.46
1401.180      90.09
1401.190      90.10
1401.210      90.99
1402.010      90.60
1402.020      90.61
1402.030      90.62
1402.040      90.63
1402.060      90.64
1501.010      92.01
1501.020      92.02
1502.010      93.20
1502.020      93.21
1502.030      93.22
1502.040      93.23
1502.050      93.24
1502.060      93.25
1502.070      93.26
1502.080      93.27
1502.090      93.28
1503.50       112.04
1504.060      93.99
1505.010      94.01
1505.020      94.02
1505.030      94.03
1505.040      94.04
1505.050      94.05
1505.060      94.06
1601.010      130.01
1601.020      130.02
1601.030      130.03
1601.040      130.04
1701          TSO I
1702          TSO I
1703.010      52.01
1703.020      52.02
1703.030      52.03
1703.040      52.04
1703.050      52.05
1703.060      52.06
1703.070      52.07
1703.080      52.08
1703.090      52.09
1703.100      52.10
1703.110      52.11
1703.120      52.12
1703.130      52.13
1703.140      52.14
1703.150      52.15
1703.160      52.16
1703.170      52.17
1704.010      52.30
1704.020      52.31
1704.030      52.32
1704.040      52.33
1704.050      52.34
1705.010      52.45
1705.020      52.46
1705.030      52.47
1705.040      52.48
1705.050      52.49
1705.060      52.50
1706.010      95.20
1706.020      95.21
1706.030      95.22
1706.040      95.23
1706.050      95.24
1706.060      95.25
1706.070      95.26
1706.080      95.27
1706.090      95.28
1706.100      95.29
1802.010      111.01
1802.020      111.02
1802.030      111.03
1802.040      111.04
1802.050      111.05
1802.060      111.06
1802.070      111.07
1802.080      111.08
1802.090      111.09
1802.100      111.10
1802.110      111.11
1802.120      111.12
1802.130      111.13
1802.140      111.14
1802.150      111.15
1802.160      111.16
1802.170      111.17
1802.180      111.18
1802.190      111.19
              
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.     Date Passed Code Section
2000-6       7-18-2000   10.99
2001-1201-01 3-20-2001   113.99
2007-09      7-17-2007   52.05
                        
 
REFERENCE TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
-            - -         32.07
7421         9-16-1980   70.15
                         153.01–
7425         1-20-1981   153.08,
                         153.10
7426         2-17-1981   155.080
7427         9-15-1981   93.27
7428         10-20-1981  153.04
7430b        5-19-1982   51.01–
                         51.08
7431         5-19-1982   113.55
7432         8-16-1982   159.007,
                         159.104
                         159.007,
7433         9-21-1982   159.130,
                         159.134
7437         11-16-1983  92.02
                         52.60–
7438         12-20-1983  52.64,
                         52.99
                         91.02–
7439         8-21-1984   91.04,
                         91.99
7440         9-18-1984   113.42
                         72.02,
7444         10-15-1985  72.30-
                         72.32
7443         11-19-1985  159.007,
                         159.083
7446         8-19-1986   91.05
7447         8-19-1986   70.01,
                         70.02
                         50.03,
7449         9-16-1986   113.04,
                         113.33
7453         9-15-1987   52.62
7455         3-15-1988   50.05
7458         12-20-1988  159.041
                         52.01–
                         52.17,
7460         12-18-1990  52.30-
                         52.34,
                         52.45-
                         52.50
7461         4-21-1992   71.02
                         152.01–
                         152.07,
                         152.15-
                         152.27,
7462         10-20-1992  152.40-
                         152.50,
                         152.60-
                         152.64,
                         Ch. 152 Appx A
                         90.60–
93-7464      12-21-1993  90.64,
                         90.99
7468         9-19-1995   90.02
7469         1-16-1996   95.20–
                         95.29
                         90.01,
                         90.03-
                         90.10,
7470         10-15-1996  90.25,
                         90.26,
                         90.41-
                         90.46,
                         90.99
7473         1-21-1997   110.01–
                         110.05
97-7475      7-15-1997   70.03
7475         7-15-1997   70.16
7477         11-18-1997  95.01–
                         95.09
7478         4-21-1998   71.01,
                         71.02
7479         4-21-1998   71.01,
                         71.02
7480         4-21-1998   TSO I
                         32.07,
98-7481      7-21-1998   94.01-
                         94.05
7482         8-18-1998   159.086
99-1505-7483 2-16-1999   94.02,
                         94.06
7484         3-16-1999   71.02
7485         1-18-2000   50.04
7486         2-15-2000   153.09
7488         5-16-2000   159.083
7489         5-16-2000   157.35,
                         159.112
7487         7-18-2000   10.99
                         130.01,
7492         3-20-2001   130.02,
                         130.04
7493         5-15-2001   159.157
7495         5-15-2001   159.081
7494         5-29-2001   159.180–
                         159.205
7496         10- -2001   159.043,
                         159.193
7497         1-15-2002   159.193
7498         4-16-2002   71.01,
                         71.02
7499         6-18-2002   159.007
                         159.183,
7500         3-18-2003   159.185,
                         159.205
7501         2-17-2004   159.007,
                         159.043
7503         7-20-2004   32.01–
                         32.07
                         32.07,
7504         11-16-2004  111.01-
                         111.19
7505         9-20-2005   93.04
7506         4-18-2006   TSO I
                         30.15,
                         30.16,
                         30.30-
                         30.36,
                         30.50-
7508         12-19-2006  30.52,
                         31.01-
                         31.04,
                         31.15-
                         31.18,
                         31.30-
                         31.39
7509         1-8-2007    159.193
                         32.07,
7510         6-19-2007   115.01-
                         115.07,
                         115.99
                         32.07,
7511         12-18-2007  33.01,
                         159.029
7512         2-19-2008   71.02
7513         11-18-2008  72.01,
                         72.06
7514         11-18-2008  91.01,
                         150.01
7515         6-16-2009   70.03
7516         10-20-2009  Adopting Ordinance
7517         11-17-2009  96.01–
                         96.29
                         154.01–
                         154.12,
                         154.20-
7518         12-23-2009  154.26,
                         154.30-
                         154.35,
                         154.99
7520         2-16-2010   31.18
                         116.01–
7521         5-18-2010   116.16,
                         116.99
7522         7-20-2010   31.01
                         159.185,
7523         8-17-2010   159.193,
                         159.205
7526         6-21-2011   155.027
7527         6-21-2011   30.30
                         93.40–
7528         6-21-2011   93.46,
                         93.99
7529         8-16-2011   159.083
                         114.01–
                         114.05,
7530         8-16-2011   114.15–
                         114.21,
                         114.99
7531         3-20-2012   159.185,
                         159.186
7532         6-19-2012   155.076
7533         6-19-2012   159.023
                         113.06,
7534         9-18-2012   113.07,
                         113.40
7537         4-16-2013   159.083
7538         6-21-2013   159.024,
                         159.043
                         159.007,
7539         5-21-2013   159.043,
                         159.117
7540         10-15-2013  92.02
7541         1-21-2014   159.043,
                         159.118
                         90.08,
7543         3-17-2015   90.09,
                         90.25,
                         90.26
                         159.117,
7544         4-21-2015   159.192,
                         159.205
7545         5-19-2015   31.15–
                         31.18
7548         10-20-2015  159.024,
                         159.043
7549         12-15-2015  52.48
                         52.04,
                         52.10,
                         52.11,
7551         1-19-2016   52.30,
                         52.45,
                         52.47,
                         52.48,
                         52.62
7553         3-15-2016   161.01-
                         161.12
7554         5-17-2016   52.49
                         150.01,
                         150.30,
                         155.042,
                         159.021,
7555         6-21-2016   159.027,
                         159.028,
                         159.083,
                         159.086,
                         159.101
7557         6-20-2017   50.01-
                         50.10
7558         10-17-2017  150.01
                         159.193,
7559         11-21-2017  159.200,
                         159.205
                         52.75–
7560         2-20-2018   52.81,
                         52.99
                         159.007,
2019-33      - -2019     159.043,
                         159.113
2019-34      - -2019     110.20–
                         110.24
                         159.007.
2020-07      - -2020     159.043,
                         159.104
2021-08      6-15-2021   110.20–
                         110.24
2021-09      12-21-2021  159.112
2024-20      8-20-2024   71.02
                         117.01–
2024-28      12-17-2024  117.11,
                         159.043,
                         159.104
                        
 
