LAKE PARK, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2025 S-10 Supplement, current through
Ord. 25-401, passed 5-12-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
OF
LAKE PARK, MINNESOTA
Mayor                                      John Beaudine
Vice Mayor                                 Keith Zachariason
Council
Member                                     Britney Ronning
Member                                     Kayla Mayer
Member                                     Andrea Pollock
Senior Staff
Clerk-Treasurer                            Sarah Mikkelsen
Superintendent of Utility and Public Works Todd Frank
Chief of Police                            Brady Burnside
Municipal Liquor Manager                   Carly Olson
City Attorney                              Charles J. Ramstad, Esq.
City Engineer                              Tyson J. Hajicek, P.E.
City Prosecutor                            Karen Ramstad-Skoyles, Esq.
Nutrition Coordinator                      Brenda Seeley
Fire Chief                                 Dave Coufal
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
   
10.21   Adoption date
 
   
10.98   Administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
   
Appendix A: Notice of code violation
   
Appendix B: Schedule of offenses and administrative penalties
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Lake Park City Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Lake Park,
Minnesota, as presently established or as amended by ordinance, annexation, or
other legal actions at a future time. The term CITY when used in this code may
also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Becker County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection. The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide a copy
for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code,
all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes adopted by
reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this code
was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code,
all future supplements are hereby adopted as if they had been in existence at
the time this code was enacted, unless there is clear intention expressed in
the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall have the authority to administer and
enforce this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain
individuals designated within the code or by the Clerk-Treasurer or City
Council shall have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions
specified. All and any person or persons designated may issue a citation in
lieu of arrest or continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk-Treasurer and any city official or employee designated
by this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may
with the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or
resident of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or
otherwise enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk-Treasurer, peace officer, or any employee or official charged with the
duty of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of
property within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or
entrance to the property by the City Clerk-Treasurer or any other authorized
city officer or employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code
enacted to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the people are being
complied with and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit
the inspection of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination
of any and all permits, licenses, or city service to the property. Mailed
notice shall be given to the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in
control of the property, stating the grounds for the termination, and the
licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property shall be
given an opportunity to appear before the City Clerk-Treasurer to object to the
termination before it occurs, subject to appeal of the Clerk-Treasurer’s
decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare.
§ 10.21 ADOPTION DATE.
   The adoption date of the code of ordinances is August 11, 2014.
§ 10.98 ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   Purpose. Administrative penalty procedures established pursuant to
this section are intended to provide the public and the city with an informal
cost effective and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for
violations of certain ordinance provisions. The procedures are intended to be
voluntary on the part of those who have been charged with those offenses. At
any time prior to the payment of the administrative penalty as is provided for
hereafter, the individual may withdraw from participation in the procedures in
which event the city may bring criminal charges in accordance with law.
Likewise, the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first
instance. In the event a party does not pay the monetary penalty which is
requested, the city may seek to collect the costs of the administrative penalty
procedure as part of a subsequent criminal sentence in the event the party is
charged and is adjudicated guilty of the criminal violation.
   (B)   Notice and payment. In the discretion of the issuing officer,
violations of the provisions of the ordinances enforceable though
administrative penalty procedures adopted by resolution of the City Council
from time to time, may be enforced by issuing, on a form authorized by the City
Attorney, a request to make payment for the violation directly to the city
within seven days of the violation. A late charge of 10% shall be imposed for
each seven days the requested penalty remains unpaid after the requested
payment is due.
   (C)   Amount of payment. The amount payable shall be determined according to
the schedule adopted by resolution of the City Council from time to time and
shall be paid directly to the City Clerk-Treasurer. In the event a party is
charged with a subsequent violation within a 12-month period, the subsequent
request for payment shall be increased by 25% above the previous payment.
   (D)   Failure to pay. Failure to make payment for the violation in the time
specified will result in the late charge described above and may, in the
discretion of the issuing officer in consultation with the City Attorney,
result in prosecution consistent with applicable statutes and ordinances.
(Ord. 12-5, passed 6-12-2000)
Cross-reference:
   See Appendix B following this chapter for the schedule of offenses and
administrative penalties
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence not more than the
maximum fine and period of incarceration imposed under the laws of the State of
Minnesota for misdemeanor violations.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of not more than the maximum fine
imposed under the laws of the State of Minnesota for petty misdemeanor
violations.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time to time, in
either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of
prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm, or corporation fails to comply with any provision
of this code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct, or abate the
violation.
(Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014)
APPENDIX A   NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
To: (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From: (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re: Alleged violation of Section of the City Code, relating to (give title of
section)
Date: (Date of notice)
   I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated §                 
of the City Code relating
to                                                                                                                                     
.
   The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in
the amount of $         for this violation.
   Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay
it the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
   Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due
date, you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
   As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by
                        (establish date), then the payment of the
administrative penalty will be waived.
   Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct, or
abate the violation.
   Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the
Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to
renew the request for payment. Because the payment of the administrative
penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the
Council.
   If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain, correct, or abate the violation.
   Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash, or money
order to the City Clerk-Treasurer.
Signed:                                                               
      (Name and Title of Person Giving Notice)
APPENDIX B: SCHEDULE OF OFFENSES AND ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES
Offense Code Section Administrative Penalty
Offense                  Code Section Administrative Penalty
Animals running at large 91.27        $100
Curfew                   130.02       $25, $50
Dogs (leashing required) 91.03        $45, $70, $82
Dogs (license required)  91.01        $25
Fireworks                130.01       $50
Noise                    92.03        $50
Public nuisance          Chapter 92   $100
Setting of fires         90.01        $50
Snowmobile/ATV           70.02        $75
Tobacco (individual)     Chapter 111  $75, $200, $250
 
(Res. 00-61, passed 6-12-2000; Res. 02-22, passed 2-11-2002)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Meetings and rules of order
   
30.02   Compensation
§ 30.01 MEETINGS AND RULES OF ORDER.
   The meetings and rules of order of the City Council shall be as prescribed
in the City Council rules of order, City Council bylaws and rules for public
comment adopted and amended from time to time by Resolution of the City
Council.
(Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2009)
§ 30.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   As compensation for their services, the Mayor shall receive $1,750 per
year and the other members of the City Council shall receive $1,200 per year.
In addition, each shall receive $25 for each special and emergency meeting they
attend. Members of the City Council who do not serve a full calendar year shall
have a pro rata reduction in their compensation.
   (B)   Pursuant to M.S. § 415.11, subd. 3, effective from and after January
1, 2015 through January 2, 2017 the salary of the Mayor shall be $72.50 per
month plus $72.50 for each regular monthly meeting of the City Council attended
by the Mayor and the salary of each other member of the City Council shall be
$50 per month plus $50 for each regular monthly meeting of the City Council
attended by the member. In addition, each member of the City Council shall
receive $25 for each special and emergency meeting they attend. Members of the
City Council who do not serve a full calendar year shall have a pro rata
reduction in their compensation.
(Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014; Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015)
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Economic Development Authority
   
31.02   Public Utilities Department
   
31.03   Volunteer Fire Department
§ 31.01 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby created in the city an Economic
Development Authority which, subject to the provisions of this enabling
section, shall have the powers, duties, and responsibilities of an Economic
Development Authority created pursuant to the laws of the state. It shall be
the role and responsibility of the Economic Development Authority to carry out
economic, community, housing, tourism, and industrial development and
redevelopment in the city in accordance with such general policies as may from
time to time be established by the Council pursuant to such by-laws as may be
adopted by the Authority with approval of the Council.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUTHORITY. The Economic Development Authority.
      CITY. The City of Lake Park, Minnesota.
      COUNCIL. The duly elected governing body of the city.
      ENABLING ORDINANCE. This section of the city ordinances establishing the
Economic Development Authority pursuant to the laws of the state, and all
ordinances in amendment thereof.
   (C)   Name. The Economic Development Authority created by this section shall
be known as the Lake Park Economic Development Authority.
   (D)   Members.
      (1)   The Lake Park Economic Development Authority will be governed by a
five member Board of Commissioners of which two members shall be members of the
City Council and three members shall be property owners or residents of the
city. The terms of those Commissioners are as follows:
         (a)   Seat number one: Council member; term expires December 31, 2016;
         (b)   Seat number two: public member; term expires December 31, 2014;
         (c)   Seat number three: public member; term expires December 31,
2015;
         (d)   Seat number four: Council member; term expires December 31,
2015; and
         (e)   Seat number five: public member; term expires December 31, 2018.
      (2)   Terms of office are six years. The term of office for Council
members will be the same as the member’s elected term of office or after having
served six years, which ever first concludes. Terms of office for non Council
public members are six years.
   (E)   Administration. The administration of the Authority shall be as
determined in the by-laws of the Authority, which by-laws shall require
approval of the Council.
   (F)   Powers and limitations. The Authority shall have such powers as may be
mandated by law and such other powers as may be permitted by state law and
conferred by the Council. All permissive powers shall be set forth in the by-
laws of the Authority, together with the limitations thereon. Permissive powers
enumerated by state law but not expressly set forth in the by-laws shall be
deemed withheld from the Authority.
(Ord. 107, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 107, passed 1-8-2001; Res. 14-209, passed 2-
24-2014)
§ 31.02 PUBLIC UTILITIES DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Powers of the city. The city shall have the power to own and operate
water, electric light and power, gas systems and systems for distribution of
any other source of energy, sanitary sewer system, garbage and waste
collection, disposal system, and any other public utility which may be
authorized pursuant to ordinance duly adopted by the Council, and it may
furnish water, light and power, and gas, or any other source of energy for all
municipal purposes, and may supply the same to the inhabitants of the city and
to such other persons, corporations, or other governmental units as it may deem
expedient.
   (B)   Public Utilities Department. There is hereby established a Public
Utilities Department for the city. The public water works, electric light and
power system, gas system, and any system supplying any other source of energy
owned, operated, or distributed by the city shall constitute one department in
the city known as the Public Utilities Department. The control, management, and
operation of all such public utilities shall be under the supervision of a
Superintendent of Public Utilities, which position is hereby established. The
City Council shall appoint the Superintendent of Public Utilities. The City
Council may by ordinance make the sanitary sewer system, garbage and waste
collection and disposal system, or any other public utility from which a
revenue is, or may be derived, a part of the Public Utilities Department, or
may in the same manner commit the supervision of any such sanitary sewer
system, garbage and waste collection and disposal system, and any other public
utility in whole or in part to the Public Utilities Department.
   (C)   Powers of the City Council. Except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, the City Council shall have control and power over the water, lights,
power, and gas system, and the distribution of any other source of energy that
may be owned and operated by the City Council, and shall have such other power
and control over sanitary sewage system, garbage and waste collection and
disposal system, and any other public utility. The Council shall have the
supervision of all buildings, structure, machinery, apparatus, equipment,
materials, and supplies, and all other property belonging to or pertinent to
the Public Utilities Department or under its control, and except as
hereinbefore provided, shall have full and exclusive control and power over all
moneys, bonds, certificates of indebtedness, warrants, and other securities in
any fund of the Department. However, the money of said Department shall be held
by the City Treasurer as a part of the funds of the city and shall be paid out
in such manner as the City Council may direct. The Superintendent of Public
Utilities may enter upon any premises for the purpose of examining the same and
making surveys and may prosecute any action in the name of the city against any
person for the use of water, light, power, gas, or any other public utility, or
for injury to any of its property or works entrusted to its care. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Council shall have the power:
      (1)   To operate each and all of said utilities and to do all things
necessary for the economical management, control, and operation thereof;
      (2)   To keep the same in repair, and make necessary replacements,
extensions, improvements, changes, and additions thereto. Upon completion of
such replacements, extensions, improvements, changes, or additions, the Council
shall have the control and management thereof, as provided herein;
      (3)   To buy fuel supplies, equipment, and other materials in such manner
as determined by the Council by ordinance or resolution;
      (4)   To fix and determine the rates and charges to be made for services
furnished by such utilities and to collect the same and all other earnings and
revenues of said utilities; provided, however, that whenever any new schedule
of rates is adopted for any of the utilities or change or alteration is made in
an existing schedule, affecting either a part or all of the patrons of such
utility, the Council shall first cause public announcement of such new
schedule, changes or alterations, to be made in the official newspaper of the
city at least 20 days before such change becomes effective;
      (5)   To prescribe the time and manner for which payment for all services
shall be made, and to provide for the discontinuance and termination of such
service in case of non-payment, and in its discretion to require payment in
advance for any and all such services. The owner of any property which has upon
it any pipes connected with the city’s water works and gas systems, or wires
and fixtures connected with the city’s light and power system to convey light
and power thereto, or which property is in any way connected with any source of
energy supplied by the city, shall, as well as the lessee or occupant of such
premises, if any, be liable to the city for the rents or rates for all such
services used upon such premises, and such charges shall constitute a lien upon
such property and may be recovered in an action against such owner, lessee, or
occupant, or against any of them, as may be directed or prescribed by the
Council. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to limit the right of the
Council to adopt ordinances providing for the certification of such unpaid
charges to the County Auditor for collection in the same manner as taxes on
real estate; and
      (6)   To make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations pertaining to
such service and the distribution and use thereof, and the operation of said
utilities, and to prescribe penalties for the violation thereof.
(Ord. 17-1, passed 2-14-1972)
§ 31.03 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Fire Department established. There is hereby established for the city
a Fire Department known as the Lake Park Fire Department consisting of a Fire
Chief, Assistant Fire Chief and as many members of City Council may from time
to time appoint.
   (B)   Duties of Chief. The Chief shall have control over all fire fighting
apparatus and shall be responsible for its care and condition. The Chief shall
report to the City Council at its first meeting in April and November of each
year as to the condition of the equipment and needs of the Fire Department. The
Chief may submit additional reports and recommendations to the Council at any
time, and shall report suspension of members of the Fire Department at the
first meeting of the Council following such suspension. The Chief shall be
responsible for the proper training and discipline of the members of the Fire
Department, and may suspend any member for refusal or neglect to obey orders,
pending final action by the Council on his or her discharge or retention.
   (C)   Chief to keep records. The Chief shall keep in convenient form a
complete record of all fires. Such record shall include the time of the alarm,
location of fire, cause of fire, if known, type of building, name of owner and
tenant, purpose for which occupied, members of the Department responding to the
alarm, and such other information as he or she may deem advisable or as may be
required from time to time by the City Council or State Insurance Department.
   (D)   Duties of Assistant Chief. The Assistant Chief shall, in the absence
or disability of the Chief, perform all the functions and exercise all of the
authority of the Chief.
   (E)   Members. All appointments of the Fire Department are made by the City
Council upon the recommendation of the Fire Chief.
   (F)   Compensation. The members and officers of the Fire Department shall
receive only such compensation, if any, as the Council may from time to time
provide by resolution.
   (G)   Relief Association. The members and officers of the Fire Department
shall organize themselves into a Firemen’s Relief Association.
   (H)   False alarm - refusal to aid. No person shall give or make, or cause
to be given or made, an alarm of fire without cause, or shall neglect or refuse
to obey any reasonable order of the Chief at a fire. Violation of this section
shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 9-1, passed 2-14-1972; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   STORM DRAINAGE UTILITY
CHAPTER 50: MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Intent of regulations
   
50.03   Fixing rates and charges for municipal utilities
   
50.04   Fixing rates and charges for public utilities
   
50.05   Contractual contents
Rules and Regulations Relating to Municipal Utilities
   
50.20   Billing, payment, and delinquency
   
50.21   Application, connection, and sale of service
   
50.22   Discontinuance of service
   
50.23   Ownership of municipal utilities
   
50.24   Access for inspection
   
50.25   Meter test
   
50.26   Unlawful acts
   
50.27   Municipal utility services and charges a lien
Charges and Fees
   
50.40   Wastewater utility service charges
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER and CUSTOMER.  
      (1)   The fee title owner of any real property that receives municipal
utility service.
      (2)   The registered title owner of a manufactured home that receives
municipal utility service where that home is installed as an occupied dwelling
upon real property owned by third parties under a written lease or lot rental
agreement.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY. Any city-owned utility system, including, but not by way
of limitation, water, sewerage, gas service, and electric service.
   QUARTER. A three-month period of service commencing on January 1, April 1,
July 1, or October 1 of each year.
   UTILITY. All utility services, whether the same be public city-owned
facilities or furnished by public utility companies.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 3-20-2011)
§ 50.02 INTENT OF REGULATIONS.
   This chapter is intended to supplement and not replace the existing city
ordinances regarding municipal utilities. In the event this chapter is deemed
to conflict with the provisions of
Chapters 51 and
52, the terms of this chapter shall govern and those inconsistent provisions
shall be and hereby are revoked. To the extent not inconsistent with this
chapter,
Chapters 51 and
52 shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 3-20-2011; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014)
§ 50.03 FIXING RATES AND CHARGES FOR MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   (A)   All customers and consumers connected to and using municipal utility
services from the city shall pay the current rate for service set forth by the
respective category of use, as specified by resolution of the City Council, for
each month such service is used at each location served.
   (B)   The rate set forth opposite each category of use hereinafter specified
shall be charged to and paid by the customer within each respective category
for each quarter of use. When two or more business categories are operated at
one location, the highest applicable rate will apply to that location.
   (C)   All rates and charges for municipal utilities, including, but not by
way of limitation, rates of service, permit fees, deposit, connection and
availability fees, trunk charges, meter testing fees, disconnection fees,
reconnection fees including penalties for non-payment if any, shall be fixed,
determined, and amended by the Council and adopted by resolution. Such
resolution, containing the effective date thereof, shall be kept on file and
open to inspection in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer and shall be
uniformly enforced. For the purpose of fixing such rates and charges, the
Council may categorize and classify under the various types of service,
provided that such categorization and classification shall be included in the
resolution authorized by this section.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 3-20-2011)
§ 50.04 FIXING RATES AND CHARGES FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   All rates and charges shall be fixed and determined by the Council and
adopted by resolution.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 3-20-2011)
§ 50.05 CONTRACTUAL CONTENTS.
   Provisions of this chapter relating to municipal utilities shall constitute
portions of the contract between the city and all customers and consumers of
municipal utility services, and every such customer and consumer shall be
deemed to assent to the same.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 3-20-2011)
RULES AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
§ 50.20 BILLING, PAYMENT, AND DELINQUENCY.
   All municipal utilities shall be billed monthly and a utilities statement or
statements shall be mailed to each customer. All utilities charges shall be
delinquent if they are unpaid by the twenty-fifth day of the month. Payments
received by mail postmarked on or before the twenty-fifth day shall be deemed
paid within said period. A penalty shall be added to, and become part of, all
delinquent utility bills. If service is suspended due to delinquency, it shall
not be restored at that location until a reconnection charge has been paid for
each utility reconnected in addition to amounts owed for service and penalties.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 3-20-2011; Ord. 2015-1, passed 9-14-2015)
§ 50.21 APPLICATION, CONNECTION, AND SALE OF SERVICE.
   Application for municipal utility services shall be made upon forms supplied
by the city, and strictly in accordance therewith. No connection shall be made
until consent has been received from the city to make the same. All municipal
utilities shall be sold and delivered to customers and consumers under the then
applicable rate applied to the amount of such utilities taken as metered or
ascertained in connection with such rates. All applications for municipal
utility service shall be made by and shall be a contract with the customer and
consumer of the property served.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 3-20-2011)
§ 50.22 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   All municipal utilities may be shut off or discontinued whenever it is found
that:
   (A)   The customer, consumer, or occupant of the premises served, or any
person working on any connection with the municipal utility systems, has
violated any requirement of the city code relative thereto, or any connection
therewith;
   (B)   Any charge for a municipal utility service, or any other financial
obligation imposed on the customer and consumer of the premises served, is
unpaid after due notice thereof; or
   (C)   There is fraud or misrepresentation by the customer, consumer, or
occupant in connection with any application for service or delivery or charges
therefor.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 3-20-2011)
§ 50.23 OWNERSHIP OF MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   Ownership of all municipal utilities, plants, lines, mains, extensions, and
appurtenances thereto, shall be and remain in the city and no person, customer,
or consumer shall own any part or portion thereof. Provided, however, that
private facilities and appurtenances constructed on private property are not
intended to be included in municipal ownership.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 3-20-2011)
§ 50.24 ACCESS FOR INSPECTION.
   By applying for or receiving a municipal utility service, the customer,
consumer, and occupant irrevocably consent and agrees that any city employee
bearing proper credentials and identification and acting within the scope and
course of his or her employment may, at reasonable times, request from the
customer, consumer, or occupant of the property the right to enter upon the
private property of the customer, including dwellings and other buildings, for
the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, testing, sampling,
repairing, reading meters, connecting or disconnecting the municipal utility
service. If any person refuses to allow such access, the city reserves the
right to seek an administrative search warrant in order to obtain access in
accordance with this section.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 3-20-2011)
§ 50.25 METER TEST.
   Whenever a customer and consumer shall request the city to test any utility
meter in use by him or her, such a request shall be in writing. If any such
meter is found to be inaccurate the same shall be replaced with an accurate
meter.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 3-20-2011)
§ 50.26 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, mar, deface, disturb, or in any way interfere with any buildings,
attachments, machinery, apparatus, equipment, fixture, or appurtenance of any
municipal utility or municipal utility system, or commit any act tending to
obstruct or impair the use of any municipal utility.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to make any connection with, opening
into, use, or alter in any way any municipal utility system without first
having applied for and received written permission to do so from the city.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to turn on or connect a utility when the
same has been turned off or disconnected by the city for non-payment of a bill,
or for any other reason, without first having obtained a permit to do so from
the city.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to “jumper” or by any means or device
fully or partially circumvent a municipal utility meter, or to knowingly use or
consume un-metered utilities or use the services of any utility system, the use
of which the proper billing authorities have no knowledge.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 3-20-2011) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27 MUNICIPAL UTILITY SERVICES AND CHARGES A LIEN.
   (A)   Customer and consumer responsible. Payment for all municipal utility
(as that term is defined in §
50.01) service and charges shall be a contract with and the primary
responsibility of the customer and consumer of the premises served and shall be
billed to such customer and consumer unless otherwise contracted for and
consented to by the city.
      (1)   If the utility service and charges are for a single metered or
multi-metered multi-unit rental residential building, the fee title owner of
said building shall be the customer and consumer of record and this
responsibility shall not be waived by contract or otherwise.
      (2)   The city may collect the same in a civil action or, in the
alternative and at the option of the city, as otherwise provided in this
section.
   (B)   Charges a lien. Each such account, unless contracted for prior to the
date of this chapter by another who is not the customer and consumer as defined
herein, is hereby made a lien upon the premises served. All such accounts which
are more than 30 days past due may, when authorized by resolution of the
Council after hearing pursuant to statute, be certified by the City Clerk-
Treasurer to the County Auditor, and the City Clerk-Treasurer in so certifying
shall specify the amount thereof, the description of the premises served, and
the name of the owner thereof. The amount so certified shall be extended by the
Auditor on the tax rolls against such premises in the same manner as other
taxes, and collected by the County Treasurer, and paid to the city along with
the other taxes.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 3-20-2011)
CHARGES AND FEES
§ 50.40 WASTEWATER UTILITY SERVICE CHARGES.
   Effective with wastewater charges payable in September of 2011, the
following rates for wastewater utility services are:
 
Type of User               Base monthly rate charged Plus monthly rate charged
                                                     per 1,000 gallons used
Residential and Commercial $22.50                    $2.00
metered
Residential and Commercial $33.50                     
non-metered
Apartment Unit (Apts. with $18.75 per unit           $2.00
> 8 units)
Cenex and Sunnyside        $45.00                    $4.00
 
(Res. 11-0801, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Every person violates a section, division, or provision of this chapter when
he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or fails to
act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as otherwise
stated in specific provisions hereof. This chapter may be enforced through the
city administrative penalty ordinance.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 3-20-2011)
Cross-reference:
   Administrative penalties, see §
10.98
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Control by Utilities Superintendent
   
51.003   Deposit of objectionable wastes, polluted waters
   
51.004   Private sewer systems prohibited
   
51.005   Fees, assessments, and costs
   
51.006   Damaging or tampering with wastewater facilities equipment
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.020   New connections to be determined by Superintendent; permit required
from city
   
51.021   Application for permit
   
51.022   Classes of permits
   
51.023   Costs and expenses to be borne by owner
   
51.024   Separate sewer for each building
   
51.025   Old building sewers
   
51.026   Construction to conform to Minnesota Building and Plumbing Code
   
51.027   Building sewer to be elevated
   
51.028   Prohibited connection of surface runoff or groundwater to system
   
51.029   Connection to public sewer to conform to state codes
   
51.030   Applicant to notify city when ready for inspection
   
51.031   Excavations to be barricaded and lighted
   
51.032   Service connections with public sewer
   
51.033   Bond; license fee
   
51.034   Suspension or revocation of license
   
51.035   Establishment of and charging of fees
Use of Public Services
   
51.050   Discharge of stormwater or groundwater
   
51.051   Storm sewers
   
51.052   Prohibited discharges
   
51.053   Limited discharges
   
51.054   Actions city may take in case of violation
   
51.055   Dilution of discharge
   
51.056   Maintenance of pretreatment or flow- equalizing facilities
   
51.057   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
51.058   Control manholes
   
51.059   Measurements, tests, and analyses
   
51.060   Protection from accidental discharge
   
51.061   Catch basins or waste traps
   
51.062   Obstructed or broken service connections to be repaired
   
51.063   City may assess costs of repairing or restoring damaged facilities
against person discharging prohibited wastes
   
51.064   Special agreements
Rates and Charges
   
51.075   Users responsible to pay charges
   
51.076   Recovery of costs
   
51.077   Definitions
   
51.078   Establishment of sewer service charge system
   
51.079   Determination of sewer service charges
   
51.080   Sewer Service Fund
   
51.081   Administration
   
51.082   Charges a lien; civil suit; interest
   
51.083   Severability and validity
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.095   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
51.096   Discontinuance of service
 
   
51.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Tables determining ERUs
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. The city or its representative thereof.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a HOUSE CONNECTION or SERVICE
CONNECTION. 
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter as determined by standard laboratory
procedures, and as expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as presently
established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a future time.
The term CITY when used herein may also be used to refer to the City Council
and its authorized representative.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES/SDS
permit if the treatment facilities are designed to treat such pollutants to a
degree which complies with effluent concentration limits imposed by the permit.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
man and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state, such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of food.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a COMPATIBLE
POLLUTANT including nonbiodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRY. Any nongovernmental or nonresidential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E, and I.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid, and solid wastes resulting from
industrial or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the
development, recovery, and processing of natural resources, as distinct from
residential or domestic strength wastes.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections, and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters, or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city’s wastewater disposal
system processes or operations which causes or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the city’s NPDES and/or SDS Permit. The term
includes sewage sludge use or disposal by the city in accordance with published
regulations providing guidelines under § 405 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345
or any regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act being 42
U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7041 et seq., the
Toxic Substances Control Act being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or more stringent
state criteria applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the
city.
   MPCA. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREAT- MENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establish- ing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in
publicly owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by such treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of such treatment facilities, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1317.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to §§ 402, being
33 U.S.C. § 1342 and 405 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface
water or groundwater.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling, or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users with a BOD concentration not greater than 200 mg/l and a
suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 250 mg/l.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly- owned treatment works.
(See NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.)
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer and a
storm sewer.
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (4)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (5)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a
public authority.
      (6)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained, and controlled by a public
authority.
      (7)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
      (8)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
stormwaters, surface runoff, groundwater, subsurface water, street wash water,
drainage, and unpolluted water from any source.
   SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater treatment
facility which has a discharge flow:
      (1)   In excess of 25,000 gallons per average work day;
      (2)   Has exceeded 5% of the total flow received at the treatment
facility;
      (3)   Whose waste contains a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts pursuant to
§ 307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317; or
      (4)   Whose discharge has a significant effect, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater disposal
system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality, or emissions
generated by the treatment system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation, and shall adversely affect the collection
and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions, and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time, for a disposal system as
defined by M.S. § 115.01, Subdivision 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent or a deputy, agent, or
representative thereof.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater, or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse affects as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1317.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities. (See NONCONTACT COOLING WATER.)
   USER.  Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city’s wastewater disposal system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community and referred to as SEWAGE. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions together with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment, or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling, and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage, or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power, and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions, and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water
supply such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works
including land which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used
for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988; Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015)
§ 51.002 CONTROL BY UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Utilities Superintendent shall have control and general supervision of
all public sewers and service connections in the city, and shall be responsible
for administering the provisions of this chapter to the end that a proper and
efficient public sewer is maintained.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 51.003 DEPOSIT OF OBJECTIONABLE WASTES, POLLUTED WATERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under jurisdiction, any human or animal excrement,
garbage, or objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and the city’s HPDES/SDS
permit.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEMS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Private sewer system unlawful. It shall be unlawful to construct,
maintain, or install any privy, privy vault, septic tank, drainfield, cesspool,
holding tank, private or community sewer system, or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of wastewater within the city.
      (1)   Zoning or building permit. No zoning or building permit can be
issued for construction, expansion, or remodeling of any new or existing
building used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purpose
from which wastewater is discharged unless and until municipal water and sewer
service is extended to a public right-of-way or easement that is adjacent to
the property prior to or contemporaneous with that construction, expansion, or
remodeling. Under no circumstances will new private septic systems,
drainfields, or holding tanks be allowed to be installed in the city. All new
or existing buildings used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purpose from which wastewater is discharged must be connected to the
municipal water and sewer system at the time they are constructed, expanded, or
remodeled.
      (2)   Connection deadline. Existing buildings from which wastewater is
discharged within the city as of the date of this section that currently are
not connected to the municipal sewer system and have private sewer systems must
connect the municipal sewer system at the property owners expense within one
year after the municipal sewer system is extended to an easement or right-of-
way adjacent to the property. Existing buildings on lands annexed to the city
after the date of this section that have operable private sewer systems less
than five years old and in compliance with all current codes as of the date of
annexation are not required to be connected to the municipal sewer system until
five years after the date of annexation or until one year after the municipal
sewer system is extended to an easement or right-of-way adjacent to the
property, whichever occurs last. All connections to the municipal sewer system
shall be at the property owner’s expense.
      (3)   Application deadline. The owner or owners of each and every
existing building located in the city as of the date of this section from which
wastewater is discharged within the city that currently are not connected to
the municipal sewer system must make application for a permit to connect to the
municipal sewer system no later than January 1, 2006. Upon determination of the
City Council that it is not currently feasible to connect the applicant’s
building to the municipal sewer system, the applicant may be granted a permit
to continue use of the private sewer system for a maximum of two years. Prior
to expiration of that permit, the applicant must again apply for a permit to
connect to the municipal sewer system and the same process will apply. A fee
may be charged for these permits as set by the City Council by resolution.
      (4)   Existing private sewers removed. All private sewer systems, septic
tanks, holding tanks and drainfields currently located within the city or which
become located within the city by future annexation must be removed and
rendered inoperable at the property owner’s expense and in accordance with the
State Department of Health requirements at the time the property is connected
to the municipal sewer system. Owners of existing private sewer systems, septic
tanks, holding tanks and drainfields must present the city with documentation
verifying removal of the private sewer system within six months after
connection to the municipal sewer system.
   (B)   City may make connection.
      (1)   In the event a property owner shall fail to connect a building used
for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purpose from which
wastewater is discharged to the municipal sewage disposal system in compliance
with this section, a notice shall be mailed to the property owner by first
class mail at the property owner’s last known address requiring compliance with
this section within 90 days of the date of the notice. In the event the
property owner fails to comply with the section and connect the to municipal
sewage disposal system the city may undertake to have said connection made.
      (2)   The owner of the property which the city has connected to the
municipal sewer system pursuant to the terms of this chapter is personally
liable to the city for the cost of the work, including administrative costs. As
soon as the connection is complete and the costs determined, the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall present the owner of the property with a demand for
reimbursement of those costs, after which the sum shall be immediately due and
payable to the city. Failure to pay shall entitle the city, on or before
September 1 of the year following connection, to assess the cost against the
property as a local improvement pursuant to M.S. §§ 429.01 et seq., as they may
be amended from time to time, and collect the same along with current taxes the
following year or in annual installments as the City Council may determine.
This right of the city shall be in addition to any other remedial or
enforcement provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Abatement of private sewers and cost recovery.
      (1)   The Utilities Superintendent shall enforce and verify the removal
of all nonpermitted private sewer systems as required by this chapter. The
Utilities Superintendent shall notify the owner of the property in writing and
order that the nonpermitted private sewer system be removed. This notice shall
be served in person or by certified mail. If the private sewer system is not
removed as required within the time specified, the Utilities Superintendent
shall report that fact to the City Council. The City Council may then cause the
private sewer system to be removed by the city.
      (2)   The owner of the property upon which the city has removed a private
sewer system pursuant to the terms of this chapter is personally liable to the
city for the cost of the work, including administrative costs. As soon as the
removal is complete and the costs determined, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall
present the owner of the property with a demand for reimbursement of those
costs, after which the sum shall be immediately due and payable to the city.
Failure to pay shall entitle the city, on or before September 1 of the year
following removal, to assess the cost against the property as a local
improvement pursuant to M.S. §§ 429.01 et seq., as they may be amended from
time to time, and collect the same along with current taxes the following year
or in annual installments as the City Council may determine. This right of the
city shall be in addition to any other remedial or enforcement provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988; Ord. 17-2, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 51.005 FEES, ASSESSMENTS, AND COSTS.
   (A)   Permit fee required. No person shall uncover, tap, make any connection
with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance
thereof without first having obtained permission to do so and a written permit
for that work from the city showing compliance with all of the applicable
provisions of this chapter. No permit shall issue without the applicant first
having paid to the City Clerk-Treasurer the fee or charge set for that permit
by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Assessments paid. No drain or connection to the municipal sewer shall
be made or built, repaired, extended, or connected with the public sewer nor
shall any permit for such work issue or be approved unless and until all
assessments for sewer construction against the property, or such installments
thereof as shall be due at the time such connection is made, are paid.
   (C)   Work completed. All work authorized by a permit shall be completed and
all required inspections performed within six months of the date the permit
issued. Failure to complete the work within that time period will require
application for a new permit.
   (D)   Connection fees. The city may charge a fee for the tapping or
connection to the municipal sewage system in addition to the permit fee. All
such fees shall be determined by resolution of the City Council and must be
paid in advance to the City Clerk-Treasurer prior to the issuance of a permit
for such work.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988; Ord. 17-2, passed 6-13-2005) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.006 DAMAGING OR TAMPERING WITH WASTEWATER FACILITIES EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.020 NEW CONNECTIONS TO BE DETERMINED BY SUPERINTENDENT; PERMIT REQUIRED
FROM CITY.
   (A)   Any new connection to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited
unless sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities including,
but not limited to capacity for flow, BOD5, and suspended solids, as determined
by the Superintendent.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or authorized agent and
the party employed to do the work, and shall state the location, name of owner,
street number of the building to be connected, and how occupied. No person
shall extend any private building drain beyond the limits of the building or
property for which the service connection permit has been given.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.022 CLASSES OF PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or any other information considered pertinent in the judgement
of the city. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide
information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type
of activity.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.023 COSTS AND EXPENSES TO BE BORNE BY OWNER.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.024 SEPARATE SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway. The
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered one building sewer. The city does not and will not assume
any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any
such connection aforementioned.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.025 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent or his or her
representative, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.026 CONSTRUCTION TO CONFORM TO MINNESOTA BUILDING AND PLUMBING CODE.
   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the requirements
of the Minnesota Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in the
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9, shall apply.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.027 BUILDING SEWER TO BE ELEVATED.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.028 PROHIBITED CONNECTION OF SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUNDWATER TO SYSTEM.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains,
areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building
sewer or indirectly to the wastewater disposal system.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.029 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER TO CONFORM TO STATE CODES.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the Minnesota Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9.
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight, and verified by
proper testing to prevent the inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the city prior
to installation.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.030 APPLICANT TO NOTIFY CITY WHEN READY FOR INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city when the
building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The
connection and inspection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or authorized representative thereof.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.031 EXCAVATIONS TO BE BARRICADED AND LIGHTED.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.032 SERVICE CONNECTIONS WITH PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   No person shall make a service connection with any public sewer unless
regularly licensed under this chapter to perform such work, and no permit shall
be granted to any person except such regularly licensed person.
   (B)   Any person desiring a license to make a service connection with public
sewers shall apply in writing to the City Council with satisfactory evidence
that the applicant or employer is trained or skilled in the business and
qualified to receive a license. All applications shall be referred to the
Superintendent for recommendations to the Council. If approved by the Council,
such license shall be issued by the City Clerk-Treasurer upon the filing of a
bond as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.033 BOND; LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to any person until a $200 bond to the
city, approved by the Council, is filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer
conditioned that the licensee will indemnify and save harmless the city from
all suits, accidents, and damage that may arise by reason of any opening in any
street, alley, or public ground, made by the licensee or by those in the
licensee’s employment for any purpose whatever, and that the licensee will
replace and restore the street and alley over such opening to the condition
existing prior to installation, adequately guard with barricades and lights and
will keep and maintain the same to the satisfaction of the Superintendent, and
shall conform in all respects to the rules and regulations of the Council
relative thereto, and pay all fines that may be imposed on the licensee by law.
   (B)   The license fee for making service connections is $10. All licenses
shall expire on December 31 of the license year unless the license is suspended
or revoked by the Council for cause. Upon failure to apply for a license
renewal prior to the expiration date thereof, the license fee for the ensuing
year shall be $10.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.034 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license by the City Clerk, or if his
or her license has been suspended or revoked by the City Clerk, the applicant
or licensee shall within ten business days have the right to appeal to the City
Council from the denial, suspension or revocation. Notice of appeal shall be
filed in writing with the City Clerk-Treasurer or other authorized official.
Unless a regular meeting of the City Council at which the appeal can be heard
is scheduled within 21 days after receiving the notice of appeal, the Mayor
shall schedule a special meeting of the City Council for the hearing within the
21-day period. The appellant may appear and be heard in person or by counsel.
If, after hearing, a majority of the members of the City Council present at the
meeting declare in favor of the applicant, the license shall be issued or fully
reinstated as the case may be; otherwise the suspension or revocation shall
become final.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988; Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.035 ESTABLISHMENT OF AND CHARGING OF FEES.
   (A)   Sanitary sewer connection permit fees will be established by
resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Sanitary sewer connection fees will be charged anytime a sanitary
sewer service line connection is installed, repaired, or replaced.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-2007)
USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES
§ 51.050 DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER OR GROUNDWATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
groundwater, roof runoff, yard drainage, yard fountain, pond overflow or any
substance other than sanitary sewage into the sanitary collection system.
   (B)   No roof runoff, sump pump, swimming pool discharge, drain tile, or
surface water drainage shall be connected to the sanitary sewer system and no
building shall hereafter be constructed nor shall any existing buildings be
hereafter altered in such a manner that the roof drainage, drain tile, or any
other source of discharge or drainage other than sanitary sewer shall connect
with the sanitary sewer system inside or outside the building.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation having a roof, sump pump, drain tile,
swimming pool discharge, cistern overflow pipe, or surface drain now connected
and/or discharging into the sanitary sewer system shall disconnect and/or
remove the same prior to July 1, 1995. Any disconnects or openings in the
sanitary sewer shall be closed or repaired in an effective, workmanlike manner.
   (D)   All sump pumps shall have a discharge pipe installed to the outside
wall of the building with one inch inside minimum diameter. The pipe attachment
must be a permanent fitting such as PVC pipe with glued fittings. The discharge
shall extend at least ten feet outside of the foundation wall and must be
directed toward the front yard or rear yard area of the property.
   (E)   Every person owning improved real estate that discharges into the
city’s sanitary sewer system shall allow the city inspector or designee to
inspect the buildings to confirm that there is no sump pump, drain tile, or
other prohibited discharge into the sanitary sewer system. Any person refusing
to allow the property to be inspected shall immediately become subject to the
surcharge hereinafter provided for and be subject to criminal liability. Any
property found to violate this section shall make the necessary changes to
comply with this section and such changes shall be verified by the city
inspector.
   (F)   A surcharge of $100 per month is hereby imposed and shall be added to
every sewer billing mailed on or after March 1, 1995, to property owners who
are not in compliance with this section. The surcharge shall be added every
month until the property is in compliance. The imposition of such surcharge
shall in no way limit the right of the city to seek an injunction in district
court ordering the property owner to disconnect the nonconforming connection to
the sanitary sewer system or from pursuing any other legal remedies available,
including criminal prosecution.
   (G)   Upon verified compliance with this section, the city reserves the
right to inspect such property at least yearly at reasonable times to verify
compliance herewith.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988; Ord. 17-4, passed 7-11-1994; Ord. 17-4, passed
3-13-1995)
§ 51.051 STORM SEWERS.
   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the city and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet
on approval of the city and upon approval and the issuance of a discharge
permit by the MPCA.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.052 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides, and sulfides;
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with particles greater
than one-half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure,
bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes,
cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings,
grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastic,
asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating
oil, mud. or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
   (C)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the wastewater disposal system; and/or
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant
identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.053 LIMITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, water, or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works treatment
process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
and/or soil, vegetation, and groundwater, or will not otherwise endanger lives,
limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The Superintendent may set
limitations lower than limitations established in the regulations below if, in
his or her opinion, such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the
above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantity of subject waste in reaction to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, the city’s NPDES and/or SDS permit, capacity of the sewage treatment
plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and
other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C), or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at
the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C), or
having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the wastewater
treatment works resulting in interference therein;
      (2)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32ºF and 150°F (0°C and
65.6°C); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral
origin of greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not;
      (3)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
SLUG as defined herein. (See § 51.001);
      (4)   Any garbage not PROPERLY SHREDDED, as defined in §
51.001. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes,
hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or
similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food on the
premises or when served by caterers;
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair;
      (6)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions;
      (7)   Noncontact cooling water or unpolluted storm, drainage, or
groundwater;
      (8)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in
such quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal
system;
      (9)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such halflife or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to such
degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment works in excess of the limits established by the
Superintendent for the following materials: arsenic; cadmium; copper; cyanide;
lead; mercury; nickel; silver; total chromium zinc; phenolic compounds which
cannot be removed by city’s wastewater treatment system;
      (11)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation, or ordinance of
any regulatory agency, or state or federal regulatory body; or
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing BOD5 or suspended solids of such
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
such materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be permitted by
specific written agreement subject to the provisions of §
51.064.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.054 ACTIONS CITY MAY TAKE IN CASE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
51.053, and/or which in the judgement of the Superintendent, may have a
deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment facilities, processes, or
equipment; receiving waters and/or soil, vegetation, and groundwater; or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city
may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317 and
all addendums thereof;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating, and
disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
   (B)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design, installation, and maintenance of the facilities and equipment shall
be made at the owners’ expense, and shall be subject to the review and approval
of the city pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.055 DILUTION OF DISCHARGE.
   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in §§
51.052 and
51.053 of this subchapter, or contained in the National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards or any state requirements.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.056 MAINTENANCE OF PRETREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation at the expense of the owner(s).
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.057 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in §
51.053(B)(2), any flammable wastes as specified in §
51.052(A), sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors
shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All
interceptors shall be of the type to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner
shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal of the captured
materials by appropriate means, and shall maintain a record of dates and means
of disposal which are subject to review by the Superintendent. Any removal and
hauling of the collecting materials not performed by the owner’s personnel must
be performed by a currently licensed waste disposal firm.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.058 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure, or control
manhole, with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of wastes. Such
structure shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the city. The structure shall be installed by
the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by the owner to be safe
and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.059 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS, AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide
laboratory measurements, tests, or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate
compliance with this chapter and any special condition for discharge
established by the city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type, and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses
to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry
must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge
to assure that compliance with federal, state, and local standards are being
met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses
to the city at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the city. The
owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses, and reporting
required by the city. At such times as deemed necessary, the city reserves the
right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an independent
laboratory.
   (B)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration, and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.060 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a sanitary
sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where necessary,
facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the owner’s expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Superintendent for review and approval prior to construction
of the facility. Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures
shall not relieve any user from the responsibility to modify the user’s
facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. Users shall
notify the Superintendent immediately upon having a slug or accidental
discharge of substances of wastewater in violation of this chapter to enable
countermeasures to be taken by the Superintendent to minimize damage to the
wastewater treatment works. Such notification will not relieve any user of any
liability for any expense, loss, or damage to the wastewater treatment system
or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on the city on account thereof
under any state and federal law. Employees shall insure that all employees who
may cause or discover such a discharge, are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.061 CATCH BASINS OR WASTE TRAPS.
   (A)   No person having charge of any building or other premises which drains
into the public sewer, shall permit any substance or matter which may form a
deposit or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sewer. Within 30 days
after receipt of written notice from the city, the owner shall install a
suitable and sufficient catch basin or waste trap, or if one already exists,
shall clean out, repair, or alter the same, and perform such other work as the
Superintendent may deem necessary. Upon the owner’s refusal or neglect to
install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair, or alter the same
after the period of 30 days, the Superintendent may cause such work to be
completed at the expense of the owner or representative thereof.
   (B)   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing
facility shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times, a
catch basin or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil,
dirt, or any mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.062 OBSTRUCTED OR BROKEN SERVICE CONNECTIONS TO BE REPAIRED.
   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken, or out
of order, or detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or unfit for the
purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause such work to be done as
the Superintendent may direct. Each day after 60 days that a person neglects or
fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation of this section, and the
Superintendent may then cause the work to be done and recover from such owner
or agent the expense thereof by an action in the name of the city.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.063 CITY MAY ASSESS COSTS OF REPAIRING OR RESTORING DAMAGED FACILITIES
AGAINST PERSON DISCHARGING PROHIBITED WASTES.
   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the city may assess against any person the cost of
repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result of
the discharge of prohibited wastes by such person, and may collect such
assessment as an additional charge for the use of the public sewer system or in
any other manner deemed appropriate by the city.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 51.064 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the
industrial concern, providing that National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
and the city’s NPDES and/or SDS permit limitations are not violated.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.075 USERS RESPONSIBLE TO PAY CHARGES.
   Each user of sewer service shall pay the charges applicable to the type of
service and in accordance with the provisions set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 51.076 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   This subchapter provides for sewer service charges to recover costs
associated with:
   (A)   Operation, maintenance, and replacement to ensure effective
functioning of the city’s wastewater treatment system; and
   (B)   Local capital costs incurred in the construction of the city’s
wastewater treatment system.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 51.077 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATION. Those fixed costs attributable to administration of the
wastewater treatment works (i.e., billing and associated bookkeeping and
accounting costs).
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD5. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city, as presently
established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a future time.
When used herein, the term CITY may also refer to the City Council or its
authorized representative.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any place of business which discharges sanitary waste as
distinct from industrial wastewater.
   COMMERCIAL WASTEWATERS. Domestic wastewater emanating from a place of
business as distinct from industrial wastewater.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment
facilities for the cost of repaying money bonded to construct said facilities.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). A unit of wastewater volume of 8,000
gallons/month at a strength not greater than 200 mg/l of BOD5 and 250 mg/l of
TSS.
   EXTRA STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater having a BOD and/or TSS greater than NORMAL
DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER as defined above and not otherwise classified as
an incompatible waste.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Users which are units, agencies, or instrumentalities of
federal, state, or local government discharging NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH
WASTEWATER.
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS or INDUSTRIES.
      (1)   Entities that discharge into a publicly owned wastewater treatment
works, liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in industrial or
manufacturing processes, or from the development of any natural resources.
         (a)   These are identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemental
under one of the following divisions:
            1.   Division A. Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing;
            2.   Division B. Mining;
            3.   Division D. Manufacturing;
            4.   Division E. Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas, and
Sanitary Sewers; or
            5.   Division I. Services.
         (b)   For the purpose of this definition, domestic waste shall be
considered to have the following characteristics:
            1.   BOD5 - less than 200 mg/l; and
            2.   Suspended Solids - less than 250 mg/l.
      (2)   Any nongovernmental user of a publicly owned treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. The liquid processing wastes from an industrial
manufacturing process, trade, or business including but not limited to all
Standard Industrial Classification Manual Divisions A, B, D, E and I
manufacturers as distinct from domestic wastewater.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Users other than commercial, governmental, industrial,
or residential users, discharging primarily normal domestic strength wastewater
(e.g., Nonprofit organizations).
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER. Wastewater that is primarily produced
by residential users, with BOD5 concentrations not greater than 200 mg/l and
suspended solids concentrations not greater than 250 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Activities required to provide for the dependable
and economical functioning of the treatment works, throughout the design or
useful life, whichever is longer of the treatment works, and at the level of
performance for which the treatment works were constructed. OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE includes replacement.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Expenditures for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   PUBLIC WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. A system of sanitary sewers owned,
maintained, operated, and controlled by the city.
   REPLACEMENT. Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories, or
appurtenances which are necessary during the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for replacement.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facilities whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached and semidetached housing, apartments, and
mobile homes; and which discharges primarily normal domestic strength sanitary
wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all charges, including charges for
operation, maintenance, replacement, debt service, and other sewer related
charges that are billed periodically to users of the city’s wastewater
treatment facilities.
   SEWER SERVICE FUND. A fund into which income from sewer service charges is
deposited along with other income, including taxes intended to retire debt
incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater treatment. Expenditure of
the SEWER SERVICE FUND will be for operation, maintenance, and replacement
costs; and to retire debt incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater
treatment.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION MANUAL. Office of Management and Budget,
1972.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface or is in suspension in water,
wastewater, or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act being
33 U.S.C. § 1317, which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will
cause adverse effects.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the user’s
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
   USERS. Those residential, commercial, governmental, institutional, and
industrial establishments which are connected to the public sewer collection
system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community, also referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions together with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment, or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling, and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage, or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power, and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions, and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water
supply such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works
including land which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used
for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 51.078 ESTABLISHMENT OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a sewer service charge system whereby all
revenue collected from users of the wastewater treatment facilities will be
used to affect all expenditures incurred for annual operation, maintenance, and
replacement and for debt service on capital expenditure incurred in
constructing the wastewater treatment works.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate share of operation, maintenance,
and replacement costs of the treatment works, based on the users proportionate
contribution to the total wastewater loading from all users.
   (C)   Each user shall pay debt service charges to retire local capital costs
as determined by the City Council.
   (D)   Sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater treatment
facility shall be determined and fixed in a sewer service charge system
developed according to the provisions of this subchapter. The sewer service
charge system developed with the assistance of Moore Eng., Inc. shall be
adopted by resolution upon enactment of Ordinance 17-3, shall be published in
the local newspaper, and shall be effective upon publication. Subsequent
changes in sewer service rates and charges shall be adopted by Council
resolution and shall be published in the local newspaper.
   (E)   Revenues collected for sewer service shall be deposited in a separate
fund known as The Sewer Service Fund. Income from revenues collected will be
expended to offset the cost of operation, maintenance, and equipment
replacement for the facility and to retire the debt for capital expenditure.
   (F)   Sewer service charges and the Sewer Service Fund will be administered
in accordance with the provisions of §
51.081.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 51.079 DETERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Users of the city wastewater treatment works shall be identified
as belonging to one of the following user classes:
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Commercial;
         (c)   Industrial;
         (d)   Institutional; or
         (e)   Governmental.
      (2)   The allocation of users to these categories for the purpose of
assessing user charges and debt service charges shall be the responsibility of
the City Clerk-Treasurer. Allocation of users to user classes shall be based on
the substantive intent of the definitions of these classes contained herein.
   (B)   The charges assessed residential users and those users of other
classes who discharge normal domestic strength wastewater shall be calculated
on the basis of wastewater volume. Those industrial users who discharge normal
domestic strength wastewater only, can be classified as commercial users for
the purpose of rate determination.
   (C)   (1)   For those users who discharge normal domestic strength
wastewater as described in division (B) above, wastewater volume will be
calculated on the basis of: equivalent residential units (ERU). Equivalent
residential units, at a volume of 8,000 gallons/month, will be assigned to
connections according to Tables I and II;
Appendix A (at the end of this chapter).
      (2)   Determination of the number of ERUs assigned to a particular
connection, in accordance with Tables I and II shall be the responsibility of
the City Council or its authorized representative.
   (D)   The sewer service charge shall consist of a user charge for operation,
maintenance, and replacement, and a charge for debt service. These charges will
be determined as follows:
   User charge rate per equivalent residential unit:
Uc    =   Comr
      ERU      Total ERUs
      Where:
         Uc = Annual User Charge
         Comr = Total Annual OM&R Costs
          ERU = Equivalent Residential Unit
         Total ERUs = The total number of ERUs connected to the treatment
facility.
   (E)   Users may appeal the number of ERUs assigned to a particular
connection by installing and maintaining, at their own expense, water meters of
a type approved by the city. Such meters shall be equipped with remote
registering recorders located at an accessible site on the owner’s property.
   (F)   The city may, at its discretion, require nonresidential users to
install water meters for the purpose of determining wastewater volume. The city
may require residential connections to install water meters as part of a
comprehensive program to install meters throughout the city’s water system.
When so required, such meters shall be of a type approved by the city, equipped
with remote registering recorders, and located at an accessible site on the
owner’s property.
   (G)   Local construction costs for the wastewater treatment facility will be
recovered from users according to their contribution of wastewater flows and
loadings into the treatment facility as follows:
Debt Service Charge per Equivalent Residential Unit
   Dc    =   Cd
   ERU      Total ERUs
   Where:   Dc = Annual Debt Service Charge
         Cd = Annual Debt Service Cost
         ERU = Equivalent Residential Unit
         Total ERUs = The total number of ERUs connected to the treatment
facility.
   (H)   The sewer service charge will consist of the total of the user charge
and the debt service charge.
   SSC = Uc + Dc
   Where:    SSC = Annual Sewer Service Charge
         Uc = Annual User Charge
         Dc = Annual Debt Service Charge
   (I)   Determination of sewer service charge to a connection.
   Annual Sewer Service Charge   = SSC x #ERUs
   to a connection           ERU
   Where:    SSC = Sewer Service Charge
         #ERUs = Number of ERUs assigned that connection
         ERU = Equivalent Residential Unit
   (J)   (1)   The sewer service charges established in this subchapter shall
not prevent the assessment of additional charges to users who discharge wastes
with concentrations greater than normal domestic strength or wastes of unusual
character, or contractual agreements with such users, as long as the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   The user pays operation, maintenance, and replacement costs in
proportion to the user’s proportionate contribution of wastewater flows and
loadings to the treatment plant, and no user is charged at a rate less than
that of normal domestic strength wastewater.
         (b)   The measurements of such wastes are conducted according to the
latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater
in a manner acceptable to the city as provided for in this chapter.
      (2)   A study of unit costs of collection and treatment processes
attributable to flow, BOD, TSS and other significant loadings shall be
developed for determining the proportionate allocation of costs to flows and
loadings for users discharging wastes of greater than normal domestic strength
or wastes of unusual character.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 51.080 SEWER SERVICE FUND.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a Sewer Service Fund as an income fund to
receive all revenues generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement, and
construction of the wastewater treatment works, including taxes, special
charges, fees, and assessments intended to retire construction debt. The city
also establishes the following accounts as income and expenditure accounts
within the Sewer Service Fund:
      (1)   Operation and Maintenance Account;
      (2)   Equipment Replacement Account; and
      (3)   Debt Retirement Account.
   (B)   All revenue generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income pertinent to the treatment system, including taxes and special
assessments dedicated to retire construction debt, shall be held by the Clerk-
Treasurer separate and apart from all other funds of the city. Funds received
by the Sewer Service Fund shall be transferred to the Operation and Maintenance
Account, the Equipment Replacement Account, and the Debt Retirement Account in
accordance with state and federal regulations and the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient to
insure adequate replacement throughout the design of useful life, which ever is
longer, of the wastewater facility shall be held separate and apart in the
Equipment Replacement Account and dedicated to affecting replacement costs.
Interest income generated by the Equipment Replacement Account shall remain in
the Equipment Replacement Account.
   (D)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient for
operation and maintenance shall be held separate and apart in the Operation and
Maintenance Account.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 51.081 ADMINISTRATION.
   The sewer service charge system and Sewer Service Fund shall be administered
according to the following provisions.
   (A)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a proper system of accounts
suitable for determining the operation and maintenance, equipment replacement,
and debt retirement costs of the treatment works, and shall furnish the City
Council with a report of such costs annually in January.
      (1)   The City Council shall annually determine whether or not sufficient
revenue is being generated for the effective operation, maintenance,
replacement, and management of the treatment works, and whether sufficient
revenue is being generated for debt retirement. The Council will also determine
whether the user charges are distributed proportionately to each user in
accordance with §
51.078(B) of this subchapter and § 204(b)(2)(A) of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act being 33 U.S.C. § 1284(b), as amended.
      (2)   The city shall thereafter, but not later than the end of the year,
reassess, and as necessary revise the sewer service charge system then in use
to insure the proportionality of the user charges and to insure the sufficiency
of funds to maintain the capacity and performance to which the facilities were
constructed, and to retire the construction debt.
   (B)   In accordance with federal and state requirements each user will be
notified annually in conjunction with a regular billing of that portion of the
sewer service charge attributable to operation, maintenance, and replacement.
   (C)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall be responsible for maintaining all records necessary to
document compliance with the sewer service charge system adopted.
   (D)   Bills for sewer service charges shall be rendered on a monthly basis
succeeding the period for which the service was rendered and shall be due 15
days from the date of rendering. Any bill not paid in full 15 days after the
due date will be considered delinquent. At that time, the city shall notify the
delinquent owner/occupant in writing regarding the delinquent bill and
subsequent penalty. The penalty shall be computed as 10% of the original bill
and shall be increased the same 10% for every month the bill is outstanding.
   (E)   The owner of the premises shall be liable to pay for the service to
such premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only
upon the condition that the owner of the premises is liable therefore to the
city.
   (F)   Any additional costs caused by discharges to the treatment works of
toxics or other incompatible wastes, including the cost of restoring wastewater
treatment services, clean up, and restoration of the receiving waters and
environs, and sludge disposal, shall be borne by the dischargers of said
wastes, at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 51.082 CHARGES A LIEN; CIVIL SUIT; INTEREST.
   (A)   Each and every sewer service charge levied by and pursuant to this
subchapter is hereby made a lien upon the lot or premises served, and all such
charges which are on October 1 of each year past due and delinquent, shall be
certified to the County Auditor as taxes or assessments on the real estate.
Nothing in this subchapter shall be held or construed as in any way stopping or
interfering with the right of the city to levy as taxes or assessments against
any premises affected any delinquent or past due sewer service charges.
   (B)   As an alternative to levying a lien, the city may, at its discretion,
file suit in a civil action to collect such amounts as are delinquent and due
against the occupant, owner, or user of the real estate, and shall collect as
well all attorney’s fees incurred by the city in filing the civil action. Such
attorney’s fees shall be fixed by order of the court.
   (C)   In addition to all penalties and costs attributable and chargeable to
recording notices of the lien or filing a civil action, the owner or user of
the real estate being serviced by the treatment works shall be liable for
interest upon all unpaid balances at the rate of 12% per annum.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 51.083 SEVERABILITY AND VALIDITY.
   (A)   If any section or division of this subchapter shall be held invalid,
the invalidity thereof shall not affect the validity of the other provisions of
this subchapter, which shall continue in full force and effect.
   (B)   The sewer service charge system shall take precedence over any terms
or conditions of agreements or contracts which are inconsistent with the
requirements of § 204(b)(1)(A) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1284(b) and 40
C.F.R. (Code of Federal Regulations) § 35.2140 of the Environmental Protection
Agency’s grant regulations.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 11-14-1988)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.095 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observations, measurement, sampling,
and testing pertinent to the discharges to the city’s sewer system in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. An industry may withhold information considered confidential however,
the industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the
information in question, might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing necessary work on private properties, the
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company. The company
shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees and the city
shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by city
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
51.058.
   (D)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within said easement in accordance with §
10.20 of this code. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 51.096 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Water service shall be shut off at the stop box connection when it is
determined that the fees and charges provided in this chapter have not been
paid as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988; Ord. 17-2, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
sentenced in an amount not to exceed the maximum sentence allowed by state law
for misdemeanor convictions.
   (B)   Administrative penalties allowed. This chapter may be enforced though
the city administrative penalty ordinance.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 11-14-1988; Ord. 17-2, passed 6-13-2005)
APPENDIX A: TABLES DETERMINING ERUS
   The following tables shall be used as a guide for determining the number of
ERUs for various user classes.
 
TABLE I: Equivalent Residential Units (ERUs) for Various Residential Dwellings
(No water meters)
Single-family homes, townhouses, and duplex units 1.0 Unit
Condominiums and apartment units                  1.0 Unit
Mobile homes                                      1.0 Unit
 
TABLE II: Equivalent Residential Units (ERUs) for Various Commercial, Public,
and Institutional Facilities
Facility Description Parameter (est. water meter readings) Units
TABLE II: Equivalent Residential Units (ERUs) for Various Commercial, Public,
and Institutional Facilities
Facility Description           Parameter (est. water meter readings) Units
Al’s Bait                    12,000 gallons/month                  1.5
Bob’s Convenience Store      12,000 gallons/month                  1.5
Buds Sports Center             12,000 gallons/month                  1.5
Jordahl Store                  12,000 gallons/month                  1.5
Lake Park Laundromat           12,000 gallons/month                  1.5
School                         91,200 gallons/month                  11.4
Sunnyside                      136,800 gallons/month                 17.1
35 other commercial businesses 9,600 gallons/month                   1.2 each
 
(Ord. 17-3, passed 11-14-1988)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
Water Service Connections
   
52.01   Water service connection permit required
   
52.02   Water service connection required
   
52.03   Construction requirements
   
52.04   Restrictions on laying of pipe
   
52.05   Separate service to each building
   
52.06   Separate curb stop required for each building
   
52.07   Water used during construction
   
52.08   When curb-stop to be shut-off
   
52.09   Maintenance of service pipes
   
52.10   Repair of services to conform to chapter
   
52.11   Two or more services on one shut-off; turning on of water
   
52.12   Location of leaks
   
52.13   Service line freeze-ups
   
52.14   Abandoned service lines
   
52.15   Right to shut-off water
Control and Regulation of Water Meters
   
52.30   Meter use required; to be attached to all services
   
52.31   Installation of meters
   
52.32   Outdoor metering
   
52.33   Remote meter register
   
52.34   Meters to be kept sealed; removal only by Water Department;
interference and breakage prohibited
   
52.35   Valves on larger meters
   
52.36   Water meters to be protected
   
52.37   Damage to meters; liability
   
52.38   Owner of premises to give notice when meter not needed
   
52.39   Water bill to be estimated in case of tampering with meter
   
52.40   Testing; expense for
   
52.41   Right of access for Water Department
Water Service Rates, Bills, and Accounts
   
52.55   Water rates and rules
   
52.56   Water service bills
   
52.57   Discontinuance; permission required for turn-on
   
52.58   Fire services
   
52.59   Fire hydrants
   
52.60   Water supply from two sources
   
52.61   Safety devices required
   
52.62   Unnecessary waste
   
52.63   Water Department does not guarantee accuracy of information or pressure
   
52.64   Non-liability of Water Department
   
52.65   Application of rules; turn-off for nonpayment
 
   
52.99   Penalty
WATER SERVICE CONNECTIONS
§ 52.01 WATER SERVICE CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall uncover, tap, make any connection
with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb, either directly or indirectly,
any water main or appurtenance thereof within the limits of the city without
first having obtained permission to do so and a written permit for that work
from the city showing compliance with all of the applicable provisions of this
chapter. No permit shall issue without the applicant first having paid to the
City Clerk-Treasurer the fee or charge set for that permit by resolution of the
City Council.
   (B)   Assessments paid. No connection to any water main shall be made or
built, repaired, extended, or connected nor shall any permit for such work
issue or be approved unless and until all assessments for water and sewer
construction against the property, or such installments thereof as shall be due
at the time such connection is made, are paid.
   (C)   Issuance of permits. Upon authorization by resolution of the City
Council the City Utilities Superintendent may issue tapping and connection
permits for water mains, provided that all fees and charges have been paid in
full and provided that all other requirements of this chapter have been
fulfilled.
   (D)   Investigation prior to excavation. All public, private and municipal
utilities shall be contacted before any investigation work is done by using
Gopher State One Call. All utility locations are the responsibility of the
property owner, the excavation contractor, and the installation contractor.
   (E)   Safety precautions. Safety precautions, barricades, and fencing are
the responsibility of the property owner, excavation contractor, and
installation contractor.
   (F)   Work completed. All work authorized by a permit shall be completed and
all required inspections performed within six months of the date the permit
issued. Failure to complete the work within that time period will require
application for a new permit.
   (G)   Connection fees. The city may charge a fee for the tapping or
connection to the municipal water main in addition to the permit fee. All such
fees shall be determined by resolution of the City Council and must be paid in
advance to the City Clerk-Treasurer prior to the issuance of a permit for such
work.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001; Ord. 17-8, passed 6-13-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 WATER SERVICE CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Private water systems and wells unlawful. It shall be unlawful to
construct, drill, maintain, or install any new private water system or water
well within the city.
   (B)   Zoning or building permit. No zoning or building permit can be issued
for construction, expansion, or remodeling of any new or existing building used
for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purpose where water is
required unless and until municipal water service is extended to a public
right-of-way or easement that is adjacent to the property prior to or
contemporaneous with that construction, expansion, or remodeling. Under no
circumstances will new water systems or wells be allowed to be installed in the
city. All new or existing buildings used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation, or other purpose where water is required must be connected to the
municipal water system at the time they are constructed, expanded, or
remodeled.
   (C)   Connection deadline. Existing buildings where water is supplied by a
private water system or private well within the city as of June 13, 2005 that
currently are not connected to the municipal water system and have private
water supply systems must connect the municipal water supply system at the
property owners expense within one year after the municipal water supply system
is extended to an easement or right-of-way adjacent to the property. Existing
buildings on lands annexed to the city after June 13, 2005 that have operable
private wells less than five years old and in compliance with all current codes
as of the date of annexation are not required to be connected to the municipal
water supply system until five years after the date of annexation or until one
year after the municipal water supply system is extended to an easement or
right-of-way adjacent to the property, whichever occurs last. All connections
to the municipal water supply system shall be at the property owners’ expense.
   (D)   Application deadline. The owner or owners of each and every existing
building located in the city as of June 13, 2005, to which water is supplied
from a private water supply system or private well within the city that
currently are not connected to the municipal water supply system must make
application for a permit to connect to the municipal water supply system no
later than January 1, 2006. Upon determination of the City Council that it is
not currently feasible to connect the applicant’s building to the municipal
water supply system, the applicant may be granted a permit to continue use of
the private water supply system or private well for a maximum of two years.
Prior to expiration of that permit, the applicant must again apply for a permit
to connect to the municipal water supply system and the same process will
apply. A fee may be charged for these permits as set by the City Council by
resolution.
   (E)   Existing private wells sealed. All private water supply systems and
private wells currently located within the city or which become located within
the city by future annexation must either be maintained for use such as
irrigation, or sealed and abandoned at the property owner’s expense and in
accordance with the Minnesota Water Well Construction Code or other applicable
state regulations.
   (F)   City may make connection. In the event a property owner shall fail to
connect a building used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other
purpose to which water is supplied to the municipal water supply system in
compliance with this chapter, a notice shall be mailed to the property owner by
first class mail at the property owner’s last known address requiring
compliance with this chapter within 90 days of the date of the notice. In the
event the property owner fails to comply with the chapter and connect the to
municipal water supply system the city may undertake to have said connection
made.
   (G)   Recovery of cost. The owner of the property which the city has
connected to the municipal water supply system pursuant to the terms of this
chapter is personally liable to the city for the cost of the work, including
administrative costs. As soon as the connection is complete and the costs
determined, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall present the owner of the property
with a demand for reimbursement of those costs, after which the sum shall be
immediately due and payable to the city. Failure to pay shall entitle the city,
on or before September 1 of the year following connection, to assess the cost
against the property as a local improvement pursuant to M.S. §§ 429.01 et seq.,
as they may be amended from time to time, and collect the same along with
current taxes the following year or in annual installments as the City Council
may determine. This right of the city shall be in addition to any other
remedial or enforcement provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   Authorized personnel. Service connections to the public water supply
system will be done by the Water Department or other authorized personnel.
   (I)   Service taps. All service taps up to and including two inches will be
done under pressure. Service taps larger than two inches need not but may be
done under pressure.
   (J)   Curb box. When a service lateral was installed with a water main
project (out to the curb box), the property owner will connect at the curb box.
If any additional service is needed, the fore-mentioned described service
connection will apply.
   (K)   Code compliance. All service lines, connections, piping, and
appurtenances shall be installed and performed strictly in accordance with the
Minnesota Plumbing Code and be approved by the Water Department. Failure to
install or maintain the same in accord with that code, or failure to have or
permit required inspections shall be grounds for termination of water service.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001; Ord. 17-8, passed 6-13-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All services shall be constructed by licensed plumbers at the owner’s
expense.
   (B)   Services two inches in diameter or less shall be type “K” copper or
approved plastic pipe within right-of-way and type “K” or approved plastic pipe
on private property. All services larger than two inches in diameter shall be
ductile iron or approved plastic pipe. Service pipes shall have a minimum
working pressure rating of 160 psi and shall meet all standards as required by
the Minnesota Plumbing Code.
   (C)   All taps two inches in diameter or smaller shall be made with the use
of a corporation stop designed for tapping under pressure and will be tapped
using a stainless steel service saddle. All services shall use a compression
type fitting.
   (D)   All taps, other than those allowed in division (C) above, shall be
made only with the use of an approved tapping sleeve and gate valve. In no case
shall the valve be smaller than four inches. On services which are connected to
the main with a gate valve and sleeve, the gate valve shall take the place of
the curb stop and shall be placed within three feet of the water main.
   (E)   All corporation stops must have round ways of the same diameter as the
pipe with which they are placed and be of a make and pattern approved by the
Water Department.
   (F)   No service pipe shall be less than one inch in diameter. All services
shall have a depth of at least seven feet below finished grade or one foot
below the groundwater level; and each service two inches in diameter or smaller
shall have a curb stop fitted with a stop box set on the property line at the
same elevation as finished grade.
   (G)   The stop box used shall be of a design approved by the Water
Department. Stop boxes on curb stops shall have an unobstructed opening of one
and one-half inches diameter. Curb stops larger than one inch diameter shall
have an unobstructed opening, a minimum of two inches in diameter.
   (H)   Every service pipe must have a shut-off valve placed adjacent to and
on the street side of the meter which must be kept in working order at all
times so that the water may be shut off by the occupant of the premises. There
shall also be a shut-off valve placed on the other side of the water meter so
that the meter can be taken out or replaced without draining the pipe system in
the building.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 RESTRICTIONS ON LAYING OF PIPE.
   (A)   No consumer shall be permitted to extend water pipes across lots or
buildings to adjoining premises. All service pipe shall be laid on streets,
alleys, or public ground to the premises to be served and enter at the front,
side, or rear of the nearest main.
   (B)   Separation of water service pipes and sewer service pipes shall be no
less than ten feet apart horizontally or can be placed in a common trench if
the bottom of the water service pipe is kept at a minimum of 12 inches above
the top of the sewer pipe at all points and the water pipe is placed on a solid
shelf at one side of the common trench. A common trench may also be used
without the separation requirements if the sewer pipe is of schedule 40 plastic
pipe and the water pipe is of approved copper, ductile iron, or plastic pipe.
   (C)   Water extensions to a subdivision within the corporate limits of the
city are to be petitioned by the developer. The City Clerk-Treasurer will have
a feasibility study conducted after which the City Council will approve, or
disapprove, any utility improvements to the area.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 SEPARATE SERVICE TO EACH BUILDING.
   No new service shall be constructed and no existing service shall be changed
in such a manner that more than one building shall be on the service.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 SEPARATE CURB STOP REQUIRED FOR EACH BUILDING.
   Owners of premises having water services which do not have separate curb
stops and boxes for each building or which otherwise do not conform to the
requirements in this chapter at the time of its passage may be required to put
in such curb stops or make such other changes as are necessary to conform to
these requirements, when so instructed by the Water Department.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 WATER USED DURING CONSTRUCTION.
   If a contractor requests water during construction, a temporary meter hook-
up can be installed by the contractor. Under no circumstances is a contractor
permitted to use water without a meter.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 WHEN CURB-STOP TO BE SHUT-OFF.
   Plumbers shall leave all new water services shut-off at the curb stop after
completing the testing, except that water may be left on only when the owner or
their agent has made application for the same and has a receipt from the City
Administration Office showing fees paid.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE PIPES.
   The Water Department will maintain water services from the main to and
including the curb stop, or the property line, whichever is the closest to the
main. Customers shall be responsible for maintenance of water services on the
property owner’s side of the curb stop or property line, in the case of large
services constructed with a gate valve, the gate valve shall be considered the
curb stop and shall be placed within three feet of the water main.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.10 REPAIR OF SERVICES TO CONFORM TO CHAPTER.
   Repairs made to existing services shall cause each service to conform in
every respect with this chapter. If the plumbing is not within the code
requirements, as outlined in §
52.03(B), it is required to be brought up to code standards by the property
owner. The owner is responsible to pay for said replacement unless the city, at
its option, elects to pay for said repairs and assess the cost of the repairs
to the property.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.11 TWO OR MORE SERVICES ON ONE SHUT-OFF; TURNING ON OF WATER.
   When there are two or more services on one curb stop, the water will not be
turned on one service unless the service pipes supplying the entire premises
are metered and the water bill is paid for each service. The Water Department
may request that additional curb stops be installed.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 52.12 LOCATION OF LEAKS.
   When a leak occurs, the Water Department will determine which side of the
curb stop, or property line, which ever is closest to the main, that the leak
is located. It is then the responsibility of the city or the property owner as
determined in §
52.09 to repair a leak within ten working days. If the owner has not repaired
the leak within said time, the city will hire a contractor to fix said leak and
assess the cost to the property as an improvement to the property in accordance
with law. Failure by the property owner to maintain their service line may be
cause for the city to discontinue water service or require the property owner
to make the necessary repairs.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 52.13 SERVICE LINE FREEZE-UPS.
   (A)   When a water service lateral freezes, it is the sole responsibility of
the property owner to thaw the service lateral from the house or building to
the main. Any cost resulting from the thawing of these frozen water lines will
be paid by the owner.
   (B)   If a water service lateral has a tendency to freeze, it is the owner’s
responsibility to let the water “drip” to prevent any freeze-ups. The city does
not allow a credit on water used during the period in which the water “drips,”
but will install a water bypass if it deems necessary at the city’s expense.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.14 ABANDONED SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   When a water service line is abandoned in an improved street, the
Water Department shall keep a record of such abandonment, if it is determined
that the service is no longer necessary, all such abandoned services shall be
excavated and shut off at the main during the next street construction or
overlayment project. The cost of abandonment shall be included as part of the
project cost and shall be assessed according to the city’s assessment policy.
   (B)   When a water service line is replaced in an improved street and the
old service is exposed during excavation, the old service shall be shut off at
the watermain. The cost of the new service and abandonment of the old service
shall be paid by the property owner. When a leak occurs in an abandoned water
service line prior to reconstruction or overlay, the Water Department shall
repair the leak or remove the abandoned service.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 52.15 RIGHT TO SHUT-OFF WATER.
   The Water Department reserves the right, at any time when necessary without
notice, to shut the water off at the main for the purpose of making repairs or
extensions or for any other purpose. No claim shall be made against the Water
Department for any damage that may result from shutting off water for
repairing, laying, or relaying mains, hydrants, or other connections. The Water
Department shall give notice of shutting off water if conditions are such that
it is possible to do so.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001)
CONTROL AND REGULATION OF WATER METERS
§ 52.30 METER USE REQUIRED; TO BE ATTACHED TO ALL SERVICES.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation taking water from the water mains of
the city is required to use a meter, in the case of meters one inch or smaller
in size, such meters will be furnished at the expense of the Water Department.
An extra meter, one inch or smaller, will be furnished by the Water Department
and the total price billed to the property owner, except in the case of an
outdoor watering meter, see §
52.32(C). Meters larger than one inch are to be purchased by the owner of the
property requesting water service. Meters will measure water at cubic foot
rates and the consumer will pay for the water used. No one shall use water that
is not measured by a meter furnished or approved by the Water Department. The
city will maintain and does retain ownership of all meters, regardless of who
purchased the meter.
   (B)   Meters shall be attached to all services. except private fire
protection services as herein provided.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.31 INSTALLATION OF METERS.
   The owner must have a licensed plumber install the meter and necessary
fittings at their expense. The Water Department will inspect the installation
and approve it before the water is turned on. Meters shall be placed on the
service pipe not to exceed two feet from the wall where such pipe enters the
premises and be in a horizontal position. There shall be a valve between the
meter and the wall; and a suitable place shall be provided for the meter so as
to keep it dry and clean, protected from frost, and it shall be readily
accessible at all times to the meter reader and inspectors of the Water
Department.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.32 OUTDOOR METERING.
   When a customer requests metering for outdoor watering only, with no
corresponding wastewater charges, the following procedure will be followed:
   (A)   A separate water meter with remote meter reading capability and piping
is to be installed in such a manner that the outdoor water system cannot be
interconnected to a domestic system;
   (B)   The outdoor metering and piping shall be inspected and approved by
public utility personnel before use of the system is authorized;
   (C)   The meter cost and all of the installation costs are to be paid for by
the customer;
   (D)   Any use of the outdoor watering system which results in water entering
the wastewater system of the public utility will be charged to the customer,
based upon wastewater rates in effect at the time of use; and
   (E)   All charges for water used in the system and service charges in effect
will be billed at rates which are in effect at the time of use.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.33 REMOTE METER REGISTER.
    Remote meters are required on all new construction or remodeling projects.
Remote meters and wire will be furnished for the new construction or
remodeling, but must be installed by an electrician or plumber. If a remote
meter is requested by the owner for an existing meter, the Water Department
will furnish and install the remote meter at no charge to the owner. All remote
meters are to be located next to the electric meter, unless the electric meter
is not located on the residence.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.34 METERS TO BE KEPT SEALED; REMOVAL ONLY BY WATER DEPARTMENT;
INTERFERENCE AND BREAKAGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Meters shall at all times be sealed, such seals shall not be broken.
Meters shall be removed only by authorized employees of the Water Department.
   (B)   No one shall in any way interfere with the proper registration of a
water meter; and no one, except an authorized employee of the Water Department
shall break a seal of a meter; provided, however, that the Water Department may
grant specific permission to licensed plumbers to break such seal for draining
pipes or stopping water leaks.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.35 VALVES ON LARGER METERS.
   Meters one and one-half inches in size and larger shall be bypassed, and
shall have a suitable valve on either side of the water meter and a valve on
the bypass, which will be sealed by the Water Department. An owner may opt to
install two meters, instead of one meter and a bypass.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.36 WATER METERS TO BE PROTECTED.
   Meters that are liable to become damaged by heating or cooling systems shall
be protected by the installation of an approved backflow preventer located in
the potable water line before the point where any chemicals may be introduced.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.37 DAMAGE TO METERS; LIABILITY.
   The owner or occupant of premises where a meter is installed shall be held
responsible for its care and protection from freezing or hot water, and from
other injury or interference or in case of its stoppage or imperfect working,
they shall give immediate notice to the office of the Water Department. All
meters that are broken or damaged by negligence of owners or occupants of
premises, or by freezing, hot water, or other damage, except ordinary wear and
tear, shall be repaired by the Water Department and the cost of repairs shall
be paid by the owner or occupant.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.38 OWNER OF PREMISES TO GIVE NOTICE WHEN METER NOT NEEDED.
   Whenever a water meter is installed on a water service in a premises that is
to be remodeled, removed or destroyed, or where the service is discontinued so-
that the water meter is no longer needed, the owner of such premises shall give
notice to the Water Department to remove such meter, and free access to such
meter must be provided so that the meter may be removed. The owner of the
premises shall be held responsible for the meter and, if the meter is lost,
they shall be required to pay for the same at the actual value.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.39 WATER BILL TO BE ESTIMATED IN CASE OF TAMPERING WITH METER.
   If any meter is found to have been tampered with, the water bill shall be
estimated for that billing period and the meter repaired and tested. Upon
repetition of the offense, it will be the option of the Water Department to
discontinue the water service or collect the amount estimated due.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 52.40 TESTING; EXPENSE FOR.
   In case there is doubt as to the accuracy of a water meter on the part of
the consumer, they may have the meter, up to one inch, tested by the Water
Department; at which time they may be present, or have a representative present
if they so desire; and if the meter is found to register within 2% of being
correct, a charge will be made for making the test. If the meter is found to
measure 2% incorrectly, no charge shall be made for making the test, if the
meter should be found to over-register more than 2%, there shall be a
proportional deduction made from the previous water bill. A water meter shall
be considered to register satisfactorily when it registers within 2% of
accuracy.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 52.41 RIGHT OF ACCESS FOR WATER DEPARTMENT.
   The customer shall grant all necessary permission to allow the Water
Department access to, and the right to operate any and all service line valves,
including but not limited to the curb box valve. The Water Department employees
or agents shall have the right to enter the customer’s premises at all
reasonable times for the purpose of operating service valves or for the
reading, inspection, repairing, or removal of the water meter.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001)
WATER SERVICE RATES, BILLS, AND ACCOUNTS
§ 52.55 WATER RATES AND RULES.
   (A)   It is hereby expressly provided that the City Council reserves the
right to change the rate for the use of water from time to time, by resolution;
and at all times make such water restrictions, rules, and regulations as, in
the judgement of the City Council, may be necessary.
   (B)   When billing for rentals, the rates shall be applied separately for
the consumption of water through each meter. When two or more apartments are
connected with one meter, it will be the responsibility of the landlord to pay
the water bill.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 52.56 WATER SERVICE BILLS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills or when a violation of this chapter
occurs only after notice and a meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed
bills or other disputed violations of this chapter. The city’s form for
application for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the
title, address, room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of
billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill and that all violations of this chapter are to be rectified in a
certain time period;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date or a violation
is not rectified, a second bill or notice of violation will be mailed
containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid or the violation is not
rectified within ten days of the mailing of the second bill or notice, service
will be discontinued for nonpayment or failure to rectify the violation; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill or a
violation of this chapter shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or
she may be represented in person and by counsel or any other person of his or
her choosing and may present orally or in writing his or her complaint and
contentions to the city official in charge of utility billing or City Clerk-
Treasurer to request an appeal to the full City Council. This official shall be
authorized to order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall
have the authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days and the
violation has not been rectified within 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills or failure to rectify a violation,
service will be reinstated only after all bills for service then due have been
paid, along with a turn-on charge in the sum of $20.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001; Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015)
§ 52.57 DISCONTINUANCE; PERMISSION REQUIRED FOR TURN-ON.
   (A)   Any consumer desiring to discontinue the use of water must either
notify the Water Department or call a licensed plumber. If the water is turned
off at the stop box by a licensed plumber, they must inform the Water
Department the same day the water service is discontinued.
   (B)   There are no seasonal customers for water and sanitary sewer services.
Monthly charges are based upon the consumption of water. If there is no
consumption for that month, a fee is charged according to the current rate
schedule or the customer may have the water shut-off or turned on at the curb
box at the current fee. After voluntary shut-off, a reconnect charge, as
determined by the city, will be charged prior to water turn-on.
   (C)   Any water breaks due to freezing lines in which a residence is not in
use, is the responsibility of the owner. The owner will be charged for all
water consumption as well as any sewer rates. However, an owner may appeal his
or her sewer billing to the City Council.
   (D)   No firm, company, corporation, or individual from whose premises the
water shall have been shut off for any of the reasons provided, shall turn the
water on without permission from the Water Department.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.58 FIRE SERVICES.
   (A)   Construction of. The construction of fire services shall be under the
personal supervision of an authorized employee of the City Utility Department,
and the cost of this supervision shall be charged to the owner.
   (B)   When meters not required. Private fire protection services may be
constructed without meters provided that all outlet valves are sealed, and that
the system is approved by the Water Department, Fire Department, and conforms
with all building codes. All fire service lines shall be installed with a check
valve or backflow prevention device. Approved backflow prevention devices shall
be used when required by the Minnesota Plumbing Code. Owners of those backflow
prevention devices which require testing will be responsible to have these
devices tested annually by an accredited tester and to annually submit a copy
of all such test results to the city. Each backflow prevention device shall
also have an attached tag showing recorded test dates and signature of tester.
   (C)   When to be opened. Fire protection systems shall be opened in case of
fire or for inspection; and shall not supply water for domestic use, other than
fire purposes.
   (D)   Duty to notify of broken seals. When seals on a fire protection system
are broken, it shall be the duty of the owner or occupant to notify the Water
Department within 24 hours thereafter.
   (E)   More than one service to a premises. If more than one service is
installed on the same premises, the piping of one shall not be connected with
the other, except with permission of the City Council.
   (F)   Limited size of. The Water Department shall reserve the right to limit
the size of fire protection services where the street mains are not adequately
sized in order to protect public interest.
   (G)   Use for other purposes. In any case when the owner or occupant of any
premises are found to be using water from a fire service for purposes other
than fire protection, the Water Department reserves the right, at anytime, to
require the owner of the premises to furnish and install, at his or her expense
and under the direction of the Water Department, an approved water meter and to
keep the same in accurate operating condition.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.59 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Permit required to use. Hydrants are available throughout the city,
but the use of a fire hydrant, unless authorized by the Water Department, is
strictly forbidden. Temporary service from fire hydrants is available for
contractors. A hydrant rental fee, along with a metered charge, is required for
contractor usage, tank fillings or other approved usage of fire hydrants. If a
meter is required, it will be furnished and installed by the Water Department.
The charges for water used will be billed at the current water rates.
   (B)   How to be opened. Hydrants shall be opened only with an operating
hydrant wrench and spanner which shall be obtained either from the Fire
Department or Water Department.
   (C)   Use of in flushing streets and sewers. Hydrants used for construction
purposes and/or flushing sewers and streets shall have a reducing coupling
attached to the nozzle of the hydrant with an independent throttling valve for
regulating the supply.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.60 WATER SUPPLY FROM TWO SOURCES.
   On premises where water is supplied from two sources, the city water being
one of the systems, the piping system for city water must be entirely separated
from that of the other source, if such cross-connections are found to exist,
the owner or their plumber must give notice to the Water Department and make an
immediate correction of the problem. Failure to correct the problem will result
in the discontinuation of the city’s water supply by the Water Department.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.61 SAFETY DEVICES REQUIRED.
   Consumers are required to equip their city supplied water systems with
approved safety devices and/or backflow prevention devices whenever the system
is connected to water using fixtures or equipment which could cause a hazard to
the city’s water supply during such instances when back pressure/back siphonage
may occur. Those consumers required to test such backflow prevention devices
shall also adhere to the device testing requirements as stipulated in §
52.58(B).
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.62 UNNECESSARY WASTE.
   Consumers shall prevent unnecessary waste of water and keep all water
outlets closed when not in actual use. If unnecessary waste of water takes
place the Water Department reserves the right to cut off the supply. The Water
Department reserves the right to prohibit the use of water for yard sprinklers,
elevators, air conditioners, coolers, and large consumers of water when in the
judgement of the Water Department, it shall be necessary to do so.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.63 WATER DEPARTMENT DOES NOT GUARANTEE ACCURACY OF INFORMATION OR
PRESSURE.
   (A)   Information obtained from the records, maps, employees, and the like,
of the Water Department relative to the location of water mains and service
pipes will be furnished to licensed plumbers and interested parties, but the
Water Department does not guarantee the accuracy of the same.
   (B)   The Water Department does not guarantee the consumer any fixed
pressure or a continuous supply. In emergencies, water may be shut off without
notice.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 52.64 NON-LIABILITY OF WATER DEPARTMENT.
   The Water Department shall not be held responsible for any reason, such as,
but not limited to, the breaking of any service pipe or apparatus, water coil,
shut-off, or failure in the supply of water.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 52.65 APPLICATION OF RULES; TURN-OFF FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   Application of rules. This chapter shall be considered a part of the
contract with every person who takes water supplied by the Water Department and
every such person shall be considered as having expressed agreement to be bound
by this chapter.
   (B)   Discontinuance of service. Water service shall be shut off at the stop
box connection when it is determined that the fees and charges provided in this
chapter have not been paid as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001; Ord. 17-8, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced in
an amount not to exceed the maximum sentence allowed by state law for
misdemeanor convictions.
   (B)   This chapter may be enforced though the city administrative penalty
ordinance.
(Ord. 17-8, passed 2-12-2001; Ord. 17-8, passed 6-13-2005)
CHAPTER 53: STORM DRAINAGE UTILITY
Section
   
53.01   Establishment
   
53.02   Finding and determination
   
53.03   Storm Drainage Utility Fund
   
53.04   Residential equivalent factor defined
   
53.05   Storm water drainage charges
   
53.06   Standardized acreage
   
53.07   Other land uses
   
53.08   Adjustment of charges
   
53.09   Exemptions
   
53.10   Payment of charges
   
53.11   Late payment penalty
   
53.12   Establishment of tax lien
§ 53.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 444.075, as it may be amended from time to time, the city
establishes a storm drainage utility and authorizes the imposition of just and
reasonable charges for the use and availability of storm drainage facilities.
The storm drainage utility operations shall be a part of the Public Works
Department and under the administration of the City Public Works Supervisor.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 1-11-2010)
§ 53.02 FINDING AND DETERMINATION.
   (A)   In the exercise of its governmental authority and in order to promote
the public health, safety, convenience, and general welfare, the city has
constructed, operated, and maintained a storm drainage system. This chapter is
adopted in the further exercise of such authority and for the same purposes.
   (B)   The system, as constructed heretofore, has been financed and paid for
through the imposition of special assessments and ad valorem taxes. It is now
necessary and desirable to provide an alternative method of recovering some or
all of the future costs of improving, establishing, enlarging, replacing,
repairing, maintaining, and operating the system through the imposition of
charges as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   In imposing charges, it is necessary to establish a methodology that
undertakes to make them just and equitable. Taking into account the status of
completion of the system, past methods of recovering system costs, the
topography of the city and other relevant factors, it is determined that it
would be just and equitable to assign responsibility for some or all of the
future costs of improving, establishing, enlarging, replacing, repairing,
maintaining and operating the system on the basis of the expected stormwater
runoff from the various parcels of land within the city during a standard
rainfall event.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 1-11-2010)
§ 53.03 STORM DRAINAGE UTILITY FUND.
   There is hereby created a Storm Drainage Utility Fund into which all
charges, when collected, and all monies received from the sale of any
facilities or equipment or any by products shall be placed. Such monies shall
be used first to pay normal, reasonable, and current costs of operating and
maintaining the facilities.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 1-11-2010)
§ 53.04 RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT FACTOR DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this section, one RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT FACTOR (REF) is
defined as the ratio of the average volume of surface water runoff generated by
one acre of a given land use to the average volume of runoff generated by one
acre of a given land use to the average volume of runoff generated by one acre
of typical single family residential land, during a standard one year rainfall
event.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 1-11-2010)
§ 53.05 STORM WATER DRAINAGE CHARGES.
   In determining charges, the City Council shall by resolution establish a
basic system rate to be charged monthly against one acre of land having an REF
of one. The charge to be made against each parcel of land shall then be
determined by multiplying the REF for the parcel’s land use classification
times the parcels acreage times the basic system rate. The REF values for
various land uses are as follows:
Classification Land Use REF
Classification Land Use                             REF
1              Single family and duplex residential 1.00
2              Multiple residential                 3.20
3              Commercial and industrial            3.20
4              Institutional and schools            1.30
5              Churches                             3.20
6              Parks and cemeteries                 0.30
7              Vacant unimproved parcels            0.00
8              Rail road parcels                    1.30
9              City owned property                  3.20
(Ord. 17-11, passed 1-11-2010; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014)
§ 53.06 STANDARDIZED ACREAGE.
   For the purpose of calculating storm water drainage charges, all developed
single-family and duplex parcels shall be considered to have an acreage of one-
third acre.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 1-11-2010; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014)
§ 53.07 OTHER LAND USES.
   Other land uses not listed in the foregoing table shall be classified by the
City Clerk, in consultation with the City Public Works Supervision by assigning
them to classes most nearly like the listed uses, from the standpoint of runoff
volume for the standard rainfall event. An appeal of such classifications from
the determination of the City Clerk may be made to the City Council.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 1-11-2010; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014)
§ 53.08 ADJUSTMENT OF CHARGES.
   The City Council may by resolution adopt policies providing for the
adjustment of charges for parcels based upon land use data supplied by affected
property owners which demonstrates a runoff volume for a standard rainfall
event substantially different from the REF being used for such parcels. Such
adjustments for storm water drainage charges shall not be made retroactively.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 1-11-2010; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014)
§ 53.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   Public street right-of-way and vacant unimproved land with ground cover are
exempt from storm water drainage charges.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 1-11-2010; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014)
§ 53.10 PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   Statements for storm water drainage charges shall be made a part of the
present utility billing system invoiced through the City Clerk’s office on a
monthly basis. All charges shall be subject to established procedures for
determining and collecting customer charges.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 1-11-2010; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014)
§ 53.11 LATE PAYMENT PENALTY.
   Each billing for storm water drainage charges which are not paid when due,
shall incur a penalty as set from time to time by resolution of the City
Council.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 1-11-2010; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014)
§ 53.12 ESTABLISHMENT OF TAX LIEN.
   Any past due stormwater drainage charges will be certified to the County
Auditor for collection with real estate taxes against the property served by
the utility established in this chapter for collection as other taxes are
collected in the following year pursuant to M.S. § 444.075, subd.3, as it may
be amended from time to time. In addition, the city may have the right to bring
a civil action or take other legal remedies to collect unpaid charges.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 1-11-2010; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Weight limits; truck routes
   
70.02   Recreational motor vehicles
   
70.03   Skateboards, roller skates, and roller blades
   
70.04   Use of bicycles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 WEIGHT LIMITS; TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to preserve the condition of the public
streets within the city from serious damage and destruction by the excessive
use of the streets by trucks and other heavily laden vehicles; to reduce the
amount of loss and expenses to the tax payers of the city for street
maintenance; and to reduce the amount of dirt, noise, and other undesirable
conditions created by such traffic.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to be operated on the public
streets of the city from and after December 1, 1984 with a weight that exceeds
three tons per axle, except on those streets designated on the city truck route
map. The streets designated as truck route on the city truck route map shall be
limited to ten tons per axle, subject to state seasonal changes.
   (C)   The City Clerk-Treasurer has authorized and directed to have erected
and maintained, signs at main entrances to the city stating “Truck Route.”
   (D)   No person shall park any semi-tractor or semi-tractor/trailer
combination on any public street or road within the city except on those
streets designated as truck route on the city truck route map, with such
parking limited to 30 minutes except in designated truck parking areas.
   (E)   The City Council may, at its discretion and upon application in
writing with good cause being shown, issue a special permit in writing
authorizing the applicant to move a prohibited vehicle or combination of
vehicles otherwise not in conformity with provisions of this section upon the
streets and roads of the city. The City Council may issue or withhold such
permit at its discretion or, if such permit is issued, to the limit or
prescribe conditions of operating of such vehicle or vehicles when necessary to
assure against undue damage to the road foundations, surfaces, or structures,
and may require such undertaking or other security as it may deem necessary to
compensate for any injury or damage to any roadway or road structure and in
addition may require that the operator or owner of such vehicle or vehicles
have in effect a policy of liability insurance or bond affording substantially
the same coverage with respect to injury to persons and damage to property as
is required.
(Ord. 16-3, passed 10-8-1984; Ord. 16-3, passed 11-12-1984) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV. Trail bikes, amphibious vehicles, and similar
devices, other than snowmobiles, used at least partially for travel on natural
terrain, but not “special mobile equipment” as defined in M.S. § 168.02,
Subdivision 31, as it may be amended from time to time, which is hereby
incorporated herein by reference.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and not deriving its
power from overhead wires.
      MOTORIZED BICYCLE. A bicycle with fully operable pedals which may be
propelled by human power or a motor, or both, with a motor of a capacity of
less than 50 cubic centimeters piston displacement, and a maximum of two break
horsepower, which is capable of a maximum speed of not more than 30 m.p.h. on a
flat surface with not more than 1% grade in any direction when the motor is
engaged.
      OPERATE. To ride in, or on, and have control of a recreational motor
vehicle.
      OPERATOR. The person who is in physical control of a recreational motor
vehicle.
      OWNER. A person other than a lien holder, having a property interest in,
or title to, a recreational motor vehicle, who is entitled to the use of
possession thereof.
      RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle and any vehicle
propelled or drawn by a self-propelled vehicle used for recreational purposes,
including, but not limited to, a motorized bicycle, all terrain vehicle,
snowmobile, hovercraft or motor vehicle licensed for highway operation which is
being used for off-road recreational purposes.
      SNOWMOBILE. The self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice
or natural terrain steered by wheels, skis, or runners.
   (B)   Motor vehicle and recreational motor vehicle operating restrictions.
It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle or recreational motor
vehicle under the following circumstances:
      (1)   On private or public property of another without the expressed
permission to do so by the owner or occupant of said property;
      (2)   By taming, accelerating, decelerating or otherwise operating a
motor vehicle or recreational motor vehicle or motorcycle in a manner causing
unnecessary engine noise or backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding,
swaying, throwing of sand or gravel, or in a manner simulating a race.
Unreasonable squealing or screeching sounds emitted by tires, or the throwing
of sand or gravel is prima facie evidence of a violation of this provision;
      (3)   In a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise so
as to disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of other persons;
      (4)   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger the
safety of any person or the property of any other person or cause injury or
damage thereto; or
      (5)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable under all of the
surrounding circumstances.
   (C)   Recreational motor vehicle operating restrictions. It is unlawful for
any person to operate a recreational motor vehicle under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   On public school grounds, park property, playgrounds, recreational
areas, skating rinks, cemeteries, provided however, that the Council may, by
resolution specifically permit use on city property, in which event the
shortest route to and from areas so permitted shall be used;
      (2)   On a public sidewalk or walkway provided or used for pedestrian
travel, or to park a recreational motor vehicle on any public sidewalk;
      (3)   Towing any person or thing on a public street or highway except
through the use of a rigid tow bar attached to the rear of an automobile;
      (4)   On boulevards within any public right of way;
      (5)   Chasing, running over, or killing any animal, wild or domestic;
      (6)   Without having such recreational motor vehicle registered as
provided by state statute;
      (7)   While under the influence of intoxicating beverages or narcotics or
habit forming drugs;
      (8)   Without a lighted head and tail light when required for safety;
      (9)   During the hours between 12:00 midnight and 7:00 a.m., except when
that operation is permitted on a sign-posted recreational motor vehicle route,
and if such operation does not exceed a speed of 15 miles per hour;
      (10)   If 14 years of age but less than 18 years of age without having in
his or her possession a valid snowmobile safety certificate issued pursuant to
the provisions of M.S. § 84.86, as it may be amended from time to time; or
      (11)   If under the age of 14 years, on public property, including, but
not limited to, streets, alleys, and highways within the city.
   (D)   Owner responsibility. It is unlawful for the registered owner of any
recreational motor vehicle to permit its operation in violation of this
section. For the purposes of this section, the owner shall be conclusively
presumed to have given such permission unless the recreational motor vehicle so
operated shall have been reported stolen to a law enforcement agency at the
time of the violation.
(Ord. 16-4, passed 11-8-1993) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES, AND ROLLER BLADES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OPERATE. To ride on or upon or control the operation of a skateboard,
roller skates, or roller blades.
      OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
skateboard, roller skates, or roller blades.
      ROLLER SKATES and ROLLER BLADES. A form of skate with small wheels or
rollers in place of a runner.
      SKATEBOARD. A device for riding upon, usually while standing, consisting
of an oblong piece of wood or other composition mounted on skate wheels.
   (B)   Unlawful use. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
skateboard, roller skates, or roller blades under the circumstances set forth
below:
      (1)   On private property of another without the express permission to do
so by the owner or occupant of the property;
      (2)   In any careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger,
or be likely to endanger, the safety of any person or the property of any
person;
      (3)   On 2nd St. from Liberty St. to Front St. (known as the Downtown
Business District) and/or the sidewalk within this area;
      (4)   During the hours of 30 minutes after sunset to 30 minutes before
sunrise, on any public street within the city limits;
      (5)   The operator of a skateboard, roller skates, or roller blades
emerging from an alley, driveway, or building upon approaching a sidewalk or
the sidewalk area extending across an alley way, shall yield the right-of-way
to all pedestrians approaching the sidewalk or sidewalk area and upon entering
any roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway;
      (6)   Every person operating a skateboard, roller skates, or roller
blades upon a roadway shall ride as close as possible to the right hand curb or
edge of the roadway; or
      (7)   No person operating a skateboard, roller skates, or roller blades
shall attach the same, or the person of the operator, to any vehicle, other
person, or thing in such a manner that the vehicle, other person, or thing to
which the attachment is made, can’t control or in any way effect the operation
of the skateboard, roller skates, or roller blades in any manner whatsoever.
(Ord. 4-2, passed 8-22-1994) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 USE OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle or motor-bicycle on a street
or other public highway of the city with another person on the handlebars or in
any position in front of the operator.
   (B)   No bicycle or motor-bicycle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable
and proper, but every bicycle or motor-bicycle shall be operated with
reasonable regard to the safety of the operator, and other persons upon the
sidewalks, streets, and other public highways of the city.
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles or motor-bicycles shall observe all traffic
signs and stop at all stop signs.
   (D)   No bicycle or motor-bicycle shall be permitted on any sidewalk,
street, or other public highway of the city between 30 minutes after sunset and
30 minutes before sunrise unless there is firmly attached to the bicycle or
motor-bicycle a headlight visible under normal atmospheric conditions from the
front of the bicycle or motor-bicycle for not less than 300 feet and a yellow
or red light reflector attached to the rear and visible 200 feet in that
direction. The headlight shall give a clear white light and shall be properly
lighted during such hours of darkness.
   (E)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle or motor-bicycle upon any
street or other public highway in the city abreast of more than one other
person riding or propelling a bicycle or motor-bicycle.
   (F)   Every person riding or propelling a bicycle or motor-bicycle upon any
street or other public highway in the city shall observe all traffic rules and
regulations applicable thereto. He or she shall turn only at intersections,
signal for all turns, ride at the right side of the sidewalk, street, or
highway, pass to the left when passing overtaken vehicles and individuals, and
shall pass to the right, vehicles and persons proceeding in the opposite
direction.
   (G)   No person shall ride any bicycle or motor-bicycle on any sidewalk in
the city.
(Ord. 4-1, passed 2-14-1972) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
70.01 shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a sentence of
not more than the maximum fine and period of incarceration imposed under the
laws of the State of Minnesota for misdemeanor violations.
   (C)   Violation of §
70.02 shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a sentence of not
more than the maximum fine and period of incarceration imposed under the laws
of the State of Minnesota for misdemeanor violations.
   (D)   Violation of §§
70.03 and
70.04 shall constitute petty misdemeanors and shall be punishable by a sentence
of not more than the maximum fine imposed under the laws of the State of
Minnesota for petty misdemeanor violations.
(Ord. 4-1, passed 2-14-1972; Ord. 16-1, passed 2-14-1972; Ord. 16-3, passed 10-
8-1984; Ord. 16-4, passed 11-8-1993; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014; Res. 15-
107, passed 1-12-2015)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Statutes adopted
   
71.02   Angle parking
   
71.03   Parking restrictions
   
71.04   Truck parking
   
71.05   Winter parking
   
71.06   Prima facie evidence
   
71.07   Impoundment and towing of vehicles
   
71.08   Double parking prohibited
   
71.09   Blocking or obstructing sidewalks prohibited
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 STATUTES ADOPTED.
   The definitions and parking restrictions of M.S. Chapter 168 and Chapter
169, as they may be amended from time to time, are adopted by reference and
shall govern the parking of vehicles within the city.
(Ord. 16-2, passed 8-8-2001; Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 ANGLE PARKING.
   The City Council, by resolution, may designate certain streets for angle
parking and shall mark appropriately the streets so designated. On any such
street, every vehicle parked shall be parked with the front of such vehicle
facing the curb or the edge of the traveled portion of the street at an angle
approximately 45 degrees and facing between the painted or other markings on
the curb or street indicating the parking space. No vehicle, however, shall be
parked at an angle the length of which is more than 22 feet. On all streets not
designated for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked parallel to the curb or
edge of the roadway in accordance with law.
(Ord. 16-2, passed 8-8-2001) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Sales. No vehicle shall be parked or let stand on any street or city
parking lot for the purpose of displaying or offering it for sale. No
automobile dealer shall park or let stand a vehicle in a city parking lot for
the purpose of storing it temporarily or permanently.
   (B)   Camping. No person shall for overnight camping purposes leave or park
a house trailer, motor home, or recreational vehicle on any street.
   (C)   Time. No vehicle shall be parked or let stand on any street or city
parking lot for a period longer than 24 hours between October 15 and April 15
of each year. Between April 16 and October 14 of each year no vehicle shall be
parked or let stand on any street or city parking lot for a period longer than
48 hours.
   (D)   Motor running. No person shall park or let stand on any street, city
parking area, or private property any motor vehicle with the drive engine or
other auxiliary motor running, except that commercial trucks and other vehicles
or more than one ton capacity legally parked in a designated truck parking zone
may be parked in that zone for a period not to exceed 48 hours with the drive
engine and an auxiliary motor running.
   (E)   Designation of parking zones and fire lanes. The Council may, by
resolution, designate certain areas of the city, including streets, blocks,
alleys and public access areas of private property, as no parking zones,
limited parking zones and fire lanes, and shall mark by appropriate signs any
zones so established. Such zones shall be established whenever necessary for
the convenience and safety of the public, or to minimize traffic hazards, to
preserve the free flow of traffic, or to provide access to property for
emergency purposes. No person shall park or let stand any vehicle in any such
designated zone except as is specified on the signs marking such zone. No
person shall park or let stand any vehicle in any such designated fire lane.
(Ord. 16-2, passed 8-8-2001; Ord. 16-2, passed 9-14-2009; Ord. 2016-01, passed
11-14-2016) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   The City Council, by resolution, may establish truck parking zones
within the city on designated streets, city parking lots, or other public
areas. On request of the private landowner and for good cause shown the City
Council may, by resolution, establish truck parking zones on private property
located in a commercial zone. Any truck parking zones so established shall be
marked by appropriate signs. No person shall park or leave standing any
commercial or other vehicle of more than one ton capacity in any area of the
city, public or private, not designated as a truck parking zone for a period in
excess of 30 minutes.
   (B)   Commercial and other vehicles of more than one ton capacity may be
parked in a designated truck parking zone provided such parking complies with
all other provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-2, passed 8-8-2001) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 WINTER PARKING.
   (A)   Snow emergency. Whenever, in the opinion of the Street Superintendent,
an emergency exists in the city, or in a section of sections thereof, because
of snow, freezing rain, sleet, ice, phenomena, which create or are likely to
create hazardous road conditions impeding, or likely to impede the free
movement of fire, health, police, emergency, or other vehicular traffic, or the
safety and welfare of the community, the Street Superintendent may declare an
emergency to exist for a period of 72 hours, but the emergency may be sooner
terminated if conditions permit. If the Street Superintendent is absent from
the city or is unable to act, the emergency may be declared by the Chief of
Police. Notice of such emergency shall be given by radio, television, or press,
which news media shall be requested to cooperate with the city officials and
when given such notice shall constitute due and proper notice. The notice shall
specify the hour that the emergency commences and there shall be an interval of
at least two hours between the first time that notice is given and the
commencement of the emergency.
   (B)   Parking prohibited. During the period of emergency, no vehicle shall
be parked or left standing on any portion of any street or public roadway
designated from time to time by resolution of the City Council as a snow
emergency route from 1:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m. Any vehicle so parked or left
standing may be removed as provided in §
71.07.
   (C)   Resumption of parking. Parking may be resumed on individual streets in
this area as soon as the snow removal or street cleaning operation is completed
except as may be otherwise restricted by ordinance. Where parking is normally
permitted only on one side of the street, vehicles parked pursuant to the
aforesaid provisions may be parked on that side of the street only.
(Ord. 16-2, passed 8-8-2001) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   The operation, parking, or use of a motor vehicle in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence that said motor
vehicle was, at the time of such violation, driven, operated, parked, and used
by the registered owner thereof.
(Ord. 16-2, passed 8-8-2001) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 IMPOUNDMENT AND TOWING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Impoundment. A police officer may impound any vehicle operated,
standing, or parked in violation of ordinances of the city or statutes of the
state. In deciding whether to impound such vehicle, a police officer shall make
a discretionary determination as to the necessity for impoundment and removal
of such vehicle.
   (B)   Towing. Any vehicle impounded by a police officer may be summarily
towed and removed by officers of the Police Department or persons employed or
designated by the Department. No notice need be given to the owner or operator
of the impounded vehicle prior to its towing and removal. An impounded vehicle
may be stored in any location available to the Police Department. The city
shall not be responsible for any damage to impounded vehicles removed in
accordance with provisions of this chapter. An impounded vehicle will not be
released until the fees for towing and storage are paid in addition to any fine
imposed for the violation of law which caused the impoundment of the vehicle.
(Ord. 16-2, passed 8-8-2001) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 DOUBLE PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Except where angle parking is specifically allowed and indicated by curb
marking or sign posting, any vehicle stopped or let stand upon a two-way
roadway, where there is an adjacent curb, shall be stopped or let stand with
the right-hand wheels of the vehicle parallel with, and within 18 inches of,
the right-hand curb; provided that upon a one-way roadway, all vehicles shall
be parked either as set forth above, or with the left-hand wheels of said
vehicle parallel with and 18 inches from the left-hand curb. In either case,
the vehicle shall be so parked that the front of the vehicle, with respect to
the remainder of the vehicle, shall coincide with the direction of flow of
traffic upon the street and the lane adjoining the curb along which the vehicle
is parked.
(Ord. 16-2, passed 8-8-2001) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 BLOCKING OR OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall obstruct the ordinary use of city sidewalks by stopping or
letting stand any vehicle on any portion of a sidewalk.
(Ord. 16-2, passed 8-8-2001; Ord. 16-2, passed 6-10-2002) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced pursuant to the city
administrative penalty ordinance.
(Ord. 16-2, passed 8-8-2001; Ord. 16-2, passed 6-10-2002; Ord. 16-2, passed 7-
14-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Administrative penalties, see §
10.98
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   TREES
      
95.   RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 90: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
90.01   Outdoor burning and outdoor fires
   
90.02   Inspection and removal of fire hazards
   
90.03   Fees for emergency protection fire services
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 OUTDOOR BURNING AND OUTDOOR FIRES.
   (A)   Purpose. In the exercise of its governmental authority and in order to
promote the public health, safety, convenience, and general welfare, the city
has determined that outdoor fires and outdoor burning may create a nuisance by
the production and distribution of smoke and other byproducts of fire and
further may create a danger to persons and to property.
   (B)   Burning unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, club,
organization, corporation, or other entity to burn any sweepings, trash,
rubbish, garbage, household waste, lumber, building materials, paper, leaves,
grass, wood, brush, trees, wood products, petroleum products, or other
combustible material on any public or private land within the corporate limits
of the city.
   (C)   Exceptions. Burning within the corporate limits of the city is
permitted under the following circumstances.
      (1)   Burning is permitted in outdoor charcoal grills and outdoor propane
or natural gas grills designed and used solely for the purpose of preparing
food. The owner of the property where the grill is used is responsible for any
and all damages caused by use of the outdoor grill.
      (2)   Burning is permitted in outdoor backyard elevated fire pits,
fireplaces, chiminea, and fire pit tables designed and used for residential
recreational, ceremonial, or social use and located in the yard of an occupied
residence or residential property, provided the firebox or fire pit is at least
six inches above ground, is properly screened to restrict release of ash and
other fire byproducts from the fire, provided that the fire is not greater than
three feet in diameter and not located within 30 feet of any structure or other
combustible material and provided that there is no more than one such outdoor
fire pit, fire place, chiminea, or fire pit table at any single residential
property. No burning is allowed on sidewalks, streets, or any other public
right-of-way. Permissible fuel is limited to charcoal, fire wood, twigs, and
untreated scrap lumber. No burning is allowed between 1:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. or
during any burning ban issued by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources.
The owner of the property where the fire pit, fire place, chiminea, or fire pit
table is used will be responsible for any and all nuisances and damages caused
by such use. Fire extinguishing equipment such as water buckets, shovels,
garden hose, or fire extinguisher must be available to extinguish and control
the fire. A responsible adult shall constantly attend to all outdoor
recreational, ceremonial or social fires until the fire is extinguished.
Unattended fires are a violation of this section. All fires must be
extinguished by soaking with water. Fires must not be allowed to smolder.
      (3)   The Fire Department is allowed to conduct authorized controlled
burns and other fire training drills within the city limits. Such drills shall
be under the supervision of the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief.
(Ord. 9-6, passed 7-14-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 INSPECTION AND REMOVAL OF FIRE HAZARDS.
   (A)   Inspection of premises authorized. The Fire Warden, Chief of the Fire
Department, or other officer or member of the Fire Department designated by the
Fire Warden shall make inspection of property in this city at intervals of not
more than six months apart and locate and report to the Council places where
fire hazards exist, and report and abate conditions existing contrary to this
section or the laws of the state.
   (B)   Conditions prohibited. No owner, agent, or occupant of any building in
the city shall allow any ashes, waste-paper, hay, straw, rags, or any other
waste material of a combustible nature to accumulate in the basement or on the
floor of any building owned, controlled, or occupied by such person, except
that hay and straw may be stored in buildings where livestock is housed. No
such person shall permit to exist upon any premises as aforesaid any electric
wiring or defective heating device or part thereof, including flues and
chimneys of that character, or use or permit to exist on any premises,
buildings, or structures, or any portion thereof, which by reason of want of
repairs, age, dilapidated condition, or damage by fire, or any other cause, are
especially liable to fire, or which are so situated or are in such condition as
to endanger its occupants or persons therein, or the general public.
   (C)   Access to premises. For the purpose of making inspections, the Fire
Chief or other properly designated officer shall have authority to enter any
dwelling or other building and upon any premises in the city between the hours
of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Such officer as aforesaid shall notify in writing
persons violating the provisions of division (B) above to correct any such
condition found offensive to this section. Any such order concerning
combustible materials shall be complied with within 48 hours after service. Any
such order concerning defective equipment or unsound construction shall be
complied with within a reasonable time, and such notice shall specify such
reasonable time. Upon failure to comply with any such notice, the same shall be
reported to the City Council.
(Ord. 9-2, passed 2-14-1972) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 FEES FOR EMERGENCY PROTECTION FIRE SERVICES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This section is adopted for the purpose of
authorizing the city to charge for fire service as authorized by M.S. §§
366.011, 366.012, and 415.01.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIRE SERVICE. Any deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment
to extinguish a fire or perform any preventative measure in an effort to
protect equipment, life, or property in an area threatened by fire. It also
includes the deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment to provide
fire suppression, rescue, extrication, and any other services related to fire
and rescue as may occasionally occur.
      FIRE SERVICE CHARGE. The charge imposed by the city for receiving fire
service.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed and originally
manufactured to operate primarily upon public roads and highways, and not
operated exclusively upon railroad tracks. It includes semi-trailers. It does
not include snowmobiles, manufactured homes, all-terrain vehicles, or park
trailers.
      FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACT. A contract between the city and a town or other
city for the city to provide fire service.
      MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and a town or other
city for the City’s Fire Department to provide assistance to the fire
department of a town or other city.
   (C)   Parties affected.
      (1)   Owners of property within the city who receive fire service.
      (2)   Anyone who receives fire service as a result of a motor vehicle
accident or fire within the city.
      (3)   Owners of property in towns or cities to which the city provides
fire service pursuant to a fire protection contract.
   (D)   Rates.
      (1)   Fire calls to $500 per hour flat rate;
      (2)   Carbon monoxide calls for single truck rate of $250 per hour and
$500 per hour for multiple trucks; and
      (3)   (a)   On the third false alarm calls due to equipment malfunction
within one month, $500 per hour.
         (b)   Nuisance calls from this point on will be billed at $500 per
hour.
   (E)   Billing and collection.
      (1)   Parties requesting and receiving fire services may be billed
directly by the city. Additionally, if the party receiving fire services did
not request services but a fire or other situation exists which, at the
discretion of the fire department personnel in charge requires fire service,
the party will be charged and billed. All parties will be billed whether or not
the fire service is covered by insurance. Any billable amount of the fire
charge not covered by a party’s insurance remains a debt of the party receiving
the fire service.
      (2)   Parties billed for fire service will have 30 days to pay. If the
fire service charge is not paid by that time, it will be considered delinquent
and the city will send a notice of delinquency.
      (3)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after this
notice of delinquency is sent, the city will use all practical and reasonable
legal means to collect the fire service charge. The party receiving fire
service shall be liable for all collection costs incurred by the city
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
      (4)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after the
notice of delinquency is sent, the City Council may also, on or before October
15 of each year, certify the unpaid fire service charge to the County Auditor
in which the recipient of the services owns real property for collection with
property taxes. The County Auditor is responsible for remitting to the city all
charges collected on behalf of the city. The city must give the property owner
notice of its intent to certify the unpaid fire service charge by September 15.
      (5)   False alarms won’t be billed as a fire call.
   (F)   Mutual Aid Agreement. When the City Fire Department provides fire
service to another fire department pursuant to a mutual aid agreement, the
billing will be determined by the mutual aid agreement.
   (G)   Application of collections to budget. All collected fire charges will
be city funds and used to offset the expenses of the City Fire Department in
providing fire services.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 5-14-2018; Ord. 23-401, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
90.01 shall be a misdemeanor and shall be a sentence of not more than the
maximum fine and period of incarceration imposed under the laws of the State of
Minnesota for misdemeanor violations. Section 90.01 may be enforced through the
city administrative penalty ordinance.
(Ord. 9-6, passed 7-14-2008; Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
Keeping and Leashing Dogs and Cats
   
91.01   Dog license required
   
91.02   Receipts and tags
   
91.03   Running at large
   
91.04   Animals in city park
   
91.05   Nuisances
   
91.06   Bites
   
91.07   Muzzling
   
91.08   Enforcement; impounding
Non-Domestic Animals
   
91.20   Purpose
   
91.21   Definitions
   
91.22   Keeping
   
91.23   Exceptions
   
91.24   Construction
   
91.25   Restrictions
   
91.26   Sanitation
   
91.27   Animals at large
   
91.28   Manure
   
91.29   Cruelty
   
91.30   Slaughter prohibited
   
91.31   Impounding of non-domestic animals
 
   
91.99   Penalty
KEEPING AND LEASHING DOGS AND CATS
§ 91.01 DOG LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, or harbor any dog over the age of six
months within the city unless a license has first been secured. Licenses shall
be issued by the City Clerk-Treasurer upon payment of a license fee as set by
the City Council for each dog regardless of sex. The license period will run
from May 1 through April 30 of each year. The owner shall state at the time
application is made for such license and upon printed forms provided for such
purpose his or her name and address, the name, breed, color, and sex of each
dog owned or kept by him or her. Every application for a license shall be
accompanied by a certificate from a qualified veterinarian showing that the dog
to be licensed has been given a vaccination against rabies within a period of
one year preceding the application for license.
   (B)   This section does not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents
temporarily within the city, nor to dogs brought into the city for the purpose
of participating in any dog show nor to leader dogs properly trained to assist
blind or disabled persons when such dogs are actually being used by such
persons for the purpose of aiding them in going from place to place, leader
dogs in training, nor to police canine dogs properly trained and certified by
USPCA and being used by law enforcement for official police duty.
(Ord. 3-3, passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 RECEIPTS AND TAGS.
   (A)   Receipts. Upon payment of the license fee, the City Clerk-Treasurer
shall execute a receipt in duplicate, the original of which shall be delivered
to the person who pays the fee, and the duplicate retained in the records of
the city.
   (B)   Tags. Upon payment of the license fee, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue to the owner a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog
licensed. The shape of the tag shall be changed every year and shall have
stamped thereon a number corresponding with the number on the certificate. The
owner shall provide each dog with a collar to which the license tag must be
affixed, and shall see that the collar and tag are constantly worn. In case a
dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate will be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer
upon presentation of a receipt showing payment of the license fee for the
current year, and the payment for a duplicate tag as set by the City Council.
Dog tags shall not be transferable from one dog to another and no refunds shall
be made on any dog license fee because of death of the animal or the owner
leaving the city before expiration of license period.
(Ord. 3-3, passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Prohibited.    It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat of any person
who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A person, who owns,
harbors, or keeps a dog or cat which runs at large shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Dogs or cats on a leash and accompanied by a responsible person or
accompanied by and under the control and direction of a responsible person, so
as to be effectively restrained by command as by leash, shall be permitted in
streets or on public land unless the city has posted an area with signs reading
“Dogs or Cats Prohibited.”
   (B)   Leash. The provisions of division (A) above shall not prohibit the
appearance of any dog or cat upon the streets, public places, or public
property of the city when the dog or cat is on a leash and is kept under the
control of an accompanying person.
(Ord. 3-3, passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 ANIMALS IN CITY PARK.
   Animals are strictly prohibited at the city park. No owner shall take his or
her animal into the city park, whether leashed, licensed, tagged, or not. This
section does not apply to leader dogs properly trained to assist blind or
disabled persons when such dogs are actually being used by such persons for the
purpose of aiding them in going from place to place, leader dogs in training,
nor to police canine dogs properly trained and certified by USPCA and being
used by law enforcement for official police duty.
(Ord. 3-3, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 91.05 NUISANCES.
   (A)   The owner or custodian of any dog shall prevent such animal from
committing within the city any act which constitutes a nuisance. It is a
nuisance for any dog to run at large, for a dog to habitually or frequently
bark, cry, or howl, to frequent schoolgrounds, parks, or public places or to
chase vehicles. No person having custody or control of a dog shall permit the
animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, public or private, or to
urinate or defecate on private property without the express consent of the
owner or possessor of the property. It shall be the duty of each person having
custody or control of a dog to remove any feces left by such animal on any
sidewalk, gutter, street, park land or other public or private property, and to
dispose of such feces in a sanitary manner. Failure of the owner or custodian
of a dog to prevent the dog from committing such a nuisance is a violation of
this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor a dog which
habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined as barking for
repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one minute of
interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner’s or
caretaker’s premises.
(Ord. 3-3, passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 BITES.
   Whenever any person owning, possessing, or harboring any dog or cat shall
learn that the dog or cat has bitten any human being, the person shall
immediately impound said dog or cat in the city pound where it cannot escape or
have access to any human being or other animal, and shall also immediately
notify the Police Chief. Whenever the Police Department shall learn that any
human being has been bitten by any dog or cat, an officer shall ascertain the
identity of such dog or cat, and the person owning, possessing, or harboring
it, and shall immediately direct the person to forthwith confine the dog or
cat. Any dog or cat so confined shall be kept continuously so confined for a
period of 14 days from the day the dog or cat bit a human being. The Chief of
Police shall cause the confined dog or cat to be periodically inspected for
rabies by a qualified person. If the dog or cat is found to be rabid, it shall
be immediately destroyed. If at the end of the two weeks a veterinarian is
convinced that the dog is then free from rabies the dog shall be released from
quarantine or from the pound as the case may be. If the dog dies in the
meanwhile its head shall be sent to the State Department of Health for
examination for rabies, with all cost to be borne by the owner of said animal.
(Ord. 3-3, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 91.07 MUZZLING.
   If the Mayor determines that such action is necessary to protect the public
health and safety because of the prevalence of rabies, the Mayor may issue a
proclamation ordering every person owning, keeping, or harboring a dog to
confine it securely on his or her premises unless such dog shall have a muzzle
of sufficient strength to prevent its biting any person. Every person owning,
keeping, or harboring a dog shall comply with the proclamation. Any unmuzzled
dog running at large during the time of the proclamation shall be seized and
impounded, unless noticeably infected with rabies. All dogs so noticeably
infected with the rabies virus and displaying vicious propensities shall be
killed by police personnel without notice to the owner. Dogs impounded during
the first two days of such proclamation shall, if claimed within seven days, be
released to the owner, unless infected with rabies, upon payment of the impound
charges. If unclaimed after seven days, uninfected dogs may be sold or humanely
destroyed.
(Ord. 3-3, passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 ENFORCEMENT; IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Enforcement. Any dog not licensed as required by §
91.01, or any dog or cat in violation of §
91.05, may be impounded pursuant to division (C) of this section.
   (B)   Animal pound. The Council shall, from time to time, designate a place
as city animal pound where suitable arrangements are made for keeping and
maintaining any animals which may be seized or taken into custody by any
officer of the city pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   Impounding.
      (1)   Procedure. The police officers of the city or any other person
authorized by the city to enforce this subchapter may impound any dog found
without the license tag required by §
91.02, any dog or cat harbored or kept in violation of this code, and any dog
or cat running at large or otherwise in violation of §§
91.03,
91.04, or
91.05. Any dog or cat impounded shall be immediately delivered to the
poundmaster. The officer shall give written notice of the impounding to the
owner of the dog or cat, or if the owner is unknown or cannot be found, he or
she shall post notice of the impounding in three or more conspicuous places in
the city. The notice shall describe the dog or cat by sex, color, and breed,
and shall include a statement that if the dog or cat is not redeemed on or
before a specified date, which shall be not less than ten days after giving
notice, the dog or cat will be destroyed or otherwise disposed of. The notice
shall also state the place where the dog or cat is impounded and conditions for
its release.
      (2)   Redemption. Any impounded dog or cat may be redeemed by the owner
within ten days from the date of the notice by paying an impounding fee, plus
the daily boarding charge for each day after the first day. No unlicensed dog
shall be released by the poundmaster unless a license is first procured. A
rabid dog or cat may not be redeemed but shall be destroyed immediately.
      (3)   Disposal. Any impounded dog or cat not redeemed within ten days of
the notice of impounding may be sold. Any impounded dog or cat not redeemed or
sold shall be humanely disposed of by the poundmaster.
(Ord. 3-3, passed 12-11-2000)
NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS
§ 91.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare arising from the keeping or escape of farm animals, poultry, and non-
domesticated animals, animal bites, or disease transmission.
(Ord. 3-4, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 91.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FARM ANIMALS. Cattle, buffalo, horses, mules, sheep, goats, swine, ponies,
llamas, mink, honey bees, and other animals that are typically or customarily
kept for purposes of agriculture and farm animal husbandry.
   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Any wild animal, reptile, or fowl which is not
naturally tame or gentle but is of a wild nature or disposition or which
because of its size, vicious nature, or other characteristics would constitute
a danger to human health, safety, or property, including but not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Any skunk, whether captured in the wild, domestically raised, de-
scented or not de-scented, vaccinated against rabies or not vaccinated against
rabies;
      (2)   Any large cat of the family Felidae such as lions, tigers, jaguars,
leopards, cougars, and ocelots, except commonly accepted domesticated house
cats;
      (3)   Any member of the family Canidae, such as wolves, foxes, coyotes,
dingos, and jackals, except domesticated dogs;
      (4)   Any crossbreed such as the crossbreeds between dogs and coyotes and
coyotes or dogs and wolves but does not include crossbred domesticated animals;
      (5)   Any poisonous snake, such as a rattle snake, coral snake, water
moccasin, puff adder, cobra;
      (6)   Any boa constrictor or snake or reptile which by its size, vicious
nature, or other characteristic is dangerous to human beings;
      (7)   Any raccoon, ferret, mink, or weasel;
      (8)   Any bear, ape, gorilla, monkey, or badger; and
      (9)   Any other animal or reptile which is not listed explicitly above
but which can be reasonably defined in this section
   POULTRY. Chickens, ducks, geese, pigeons, guinea hens, turkeys, emus, and
ostriches.
(Ord. 3-3, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 91.22 KEEPING.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, or harbor within the city
any of the following animals:
   (A)   Any animals or species prohibited by state statute or federal law;
   (B)   More than three dogs over the age of six months; or
   (C)   Any non-domesticated animals or species as defined in §
91.21.
(Ord. 3-4, passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from this subchapter:
   (A)   Small non-poisonous snakes, birds kept indoors, hamsters, mice,
rabbits, lizards, and similar small animals capable of being kept in cages
continuously;
   (B)   Monkeys kept by disabled persons as personal helpers;
   (C)   Animals kept by volunteers for a public zoo, teachers, or otherwise
any bona-fide research institution or veterinary hospital provided such animals
are safely kept and do not create a nuisance;
   (D)   Farm animals and poultry allowed by a permit issued by the City
Council. No permit shall be issued if a nuisance will be created. A permit may
be issued under this section only where the animals were lawfully kept in an
open area without a permit and subsequently an additional business, church or
residence was constructed within 500 feet. The permit shall be for one year,
and may not be renewed without reinspection. Every such stable or other
building occupied by authority of a special permit shall, if located within 200
feet of any apartment house, retail food store, hotel, restaurant, boarding
house, building used for school, religious, or hospital purposes, or residence
other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which
said creatures are kept, be provided with a water-tight and fly-tight
receptacle for manure, of such dimension as to contain all accumulations of
manure, which receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such manner
as to prevent its becoming a nuisance. The receptacle shall be kept securely
covered at all times except when open during the deposit or removal of manure
or refuse. No manure shall be allowed to accumulate except in such receptacle;
and
   (E)   More than three dogs more than six months old allowed by special
permit approved by the City Council for such periods as the Council may
determine. The Council shall designate the appropriate staff to investigate all
such applications and make recommendation on the application and forward same
to the Council. A permit may be issued only if the Council is satisfied that
other residents of the city will not be annoyed thereby.
(Ord. 3-4, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 91.24 CONSTRUCTION.
   Every stable or other building wherein any animal listed in this subchapter
is kept shall be constructed of such material and in such a manner that it can
be kept clean and sanitary at all times. The City Council may, in order to
avoid a nuisance, require that any such building be screened tightly against
flies, and/or that it be provided with running water, drain sewer connections,
flooring impervious to water, and that such other measures be taken as may be
necessary to ensure proper protection to public health and safety.
(Ord. 3-4, passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25 RESTRICTIONS.
   No chicken coop, dove cote, dog kennel, rabbit warren, or other yard or
establishment where animals or poultry are kept shall be maintained closer than
40 feet to any tenement or apartment house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house,
retail food store, building used for school, religious, or hospital purposes,
or residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises
upon which said creatures are kept.
(Ord. 3-4, passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26 SANITATION.
   All structures, pens, coops, or yards in which animals or poultry are kept
or permitted shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, devoid of
all rodents and vermin, and free from objectionable odors. The interior walls,
ceilings, floors, partitions, appurtenances of all such structures shall be
whitewashed or painted annually or oftener as the City Council shall direct.
The City Council, upon the complaint of any individual, shall inspect any such
structure or premises and issue any such order as may be necessary to carry out
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-4, passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   No person shall stake or herd any horse, cow, or other animal upon any
street, alley, or public grounds of the city. No person shall fasten any animal
to a light or utility pole, parking meter, or other fixture attached to a
street or sidewalk. No person shall permit any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow,
sheep, goat, swine, rabbit, chicken, goose, duck, turkey, or other animal of
which he or she is the owner to be off the premises owned or rented by the
animal’s owner, unless accompanied by the owner or his or her agent or
employee.
(Ord. 3-4, passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.28 MANURE.
   No manure shall be dumped or left on any street, alley, sidewalk, nor on any
open area or lot.
(Ord. 3-4, passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.29 CRUELTY.
   No person shall inhumanely, unnecessarily, or cruelly beat, injure, or abuse
any animal in any way.
(Ord. 3-4, passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.30 SLAUGHTER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall slaughter any animals within the city.
(Ord. 3-4, passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 IMPOUNDING OF NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   In addition to criminal penalties, any non-domestic animal kept in violation
of this subchapter may be impounded by the city, unless such impounded animal
is reclaimed and removed from the city, or unless the owner petitions the
District Court for a determination that the animal is exempt from the
provisions of this subchapter, the animal may be destroyed or sold five days
following notice to the owner of such animal of its impoundment and the
provisions of this subchapter. Any person reclaiming any such impounded animal
shall pay the costs of impounding and keeping the same prior to the animal’s
release.
(Ord. 3-4, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person found
guilty of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
punishment of a misdemeanor in accordance with the laws of the state pertaining
to the punishment allowed for violation of misdemeanors. Each day of
noncompliance with this chapter shall constitute a separate offense. Violations
of this chapter may be punishable by city administrative penalties procedures.
(Ord. 3-3, passed 12-11-2000; Ord. 3-4, passed 12-11-2000)
Cross-reference:
   Administrative penalties, see §
10.98
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances Generally
   
92.01   Public nuisance
   
92.02   Public nuisances affecting health
   
92.03   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
92.04   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
92.05   Nuisance parking and storage
   
92.06   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
92.07   Building maintenance and appearance
   
92.08   Duties of city officers
   
92.09   Abatement
   
92.10   Recovery of cost
Weeds
   
92.35   Short title
   
92.36   Jurisdiction
   
92.37   Definitions; exclusions
   
92.38   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
92.39   Filing complaint
   
92.40   Notice of violations
   
92.41   Appeals
   
92.42   Abatement by city
   
92.43   Liability
 
   
92.99   Penalty
NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 92.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   A person must not act, or fail to act in a manner that is or causes a public
nuisance. For purpose of
this chapter, a person who does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a
public nuisance, which is a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or §§
92.02,
92.03 or
92.04, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance and for which no
sentence is specifically provided.
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015) Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
   (L)   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations.
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized and permitted by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place. For the purposes of this
section INTOXICATING LIQUOR shall mean any ethyl alcohol, distilled, fermented,
spirituous, vinous or malt beverage containing more than 1/2% alcohol by
volume; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as they may
be amended from time to time which are hereby incorporated by reference into
this code;
   (E)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all terrain vehicle, snowmobile or any recreational device
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
   (F)   The using or operation or permitting the using or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or
other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly
audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person
nearby. Operation of any device referred to above between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line
of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50
feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of violation of this section;
   (G)   No person shall participate in any party or other gathering of people
giving rise to noise, unreasonably disturbing the peace, quiet, or repose of
another person. When a police officer determines that a gathering is creating
such a noise disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than
the owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to
disperse immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a
police officer to do so. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has
knowledge of the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the
disturbance is stopped;
   (H)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (I)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (J)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (K)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (L)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (M)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (N)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (O)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (P)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (Q)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (R)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash or other materials;
   (S)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (T)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property; and
   (U)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.
   (V)   (1)   Noises prohibited.  
         (a)   General prohibition. No person shall make or cause to be made
any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or welfare of
any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property's
value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of
this section.
         (b)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person shall use any vehicle so
out of repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling, or other noise.
         (c)   Loading, unloading, unpacking.  No person shall create loud or
excessive noise in loading, unloading, or unpacking any vehicle.
         (d)   Radios, phonographs, paging systems, and the like. No person
shall use or operate or permit the use or operation of any radio receiving set,
musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or other device for the
production or reproduction of sound in a distinct and loudly audible manner as
to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of any person nearby.
Operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or other device
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly
audible at the property line of the structure or building in which it is
located, in the hallway or apartment adjacent, or at a distance of 50 feet if
the source is located outside a structure or building, shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
         (e)   Schools, churches, hospitals, and the like. No person shall
create any excessive noise on a street, alley or public grounds adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, church or hospital when the noise unreasonably
interferes with the working of the institution or disturbs or unduly annoys its
occupants or residents and when conspicuous signs indicate the presence of such
institution.
      (2)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
         (a)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or
other similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
         (b)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or
refuse in any residential district except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on
any weekend or holiday.
         (c)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
      (3)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person
applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any
structure, operation, process, installation or alteration or project that may
be considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the Council. It shall evaluate each such statement and take
its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or permit
applied for or the zoning change requested.
   (W)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and one footcandle when
abutting any commercial or industrial parcel.
   (X)   Community event exception. A noise disturbance occurring due to a
festival or community event conducted pursuant to a permit granted by the city,
or under contract with the city, is not a violation of this section so long as
such activity or event complies with the terms and conditions of the permit or
contract.
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it (a) obstructs views on streets and private property, (b)
creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas, (c) prevents the full use of
residential streets for residential parking, (d) introduces commercial
advertising signs into areas where commercial advertising signs are otherwise
prohibited, (e) decreases adjoining landowners' and occupants' enjoyment of
their property and neighborhood, and (f) otherwise adversely affects property
values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of ice fish houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses or other similar non-permanent
structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front-yard area
of residential property unless more than 100 feet back from the front property
line.
      (2)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery, or similar materials, including all
materials used in connection with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or fence.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements:
         (a)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be
parked or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of nonresidential characteristics of
the property. This maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional
guests who do not reside on the property.
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front-yard
area must be on a paved or graveled parking surface or driveway area.
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Declaration of a nuisance. Any motor vehicles described in this
section constitute a hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of the
community in that such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter
and breeding place for vermin and present physical danger to the safety and
well-being of children and citizens; and vehicles containing fluids which, if
released into the environment, can and do cause significant health risks to the
community.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store or abandon any motor vehicle
which is not in operating condition, partially dismantled, used for repair of
parts or as a source of repair or replacement parts for other vehicles, kept
for scrapping, dismantling or salvage of any kind, or which is not properly
licensed for operation with the state, pursuant to M.S. § 168.12, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in a building
and/or kept out of view from any street, road or alley, and which does not
foster complaint from a resident of the city. A privacy fence is permissible.
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015) Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.07 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences and other structures that
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they (a) are unsightly, (b) decrease adjoining landowners and
occupants' enjoyment of their property and neighborhood, and (c) adversely
affect property values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Standards. A building, fence or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.
      (2)   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked, chipped or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:
         (a)   Any one wall or other flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters, and similar
projections on any one side or surface.
      (3)   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, may be
broken or cracked, and no screens may be torn or separated from moldings.
      (4)   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
      (5)   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay or dormer windows and
similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from cracks and
defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.
      (6)   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that admit water.
All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly.
      (7)   Chimneys, antennae, air vents, and other similar projections must
be structurally sound and in good repair. These projections must be secured
properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
      (8)   Foundations must be structurally sound and in good repair.
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   For purposes of §§
92.08 and
92.09, the Police Department, or Sheriff or person designated by the City
Council under §
10.20, if the city has at the time no Police Department, may enforce the
provisions relating to nuisances. Any peace officer or designated person shall
have the power to inspect private premises and take all reasonable precautions
to prevent the commission and maintenance of public nuisances. Except in
emergency situations of imminent danger to human life and safety, no police
officer or designated person shall enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission of the owner,
resident or other person in control of the property, unless the officer or
person designated has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry, as provided in §
10.20.
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015)
§ 92.09 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
a peace officer or designated person on the owner of record or occupant of the
premises either in person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises
is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or
occupant refuses to accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be
served by posting it on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing.  Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in M.S. § 463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard
Building Act), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S. § 463.17
(Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   Procedure. Whenever a peace officer or designated person determines
that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises in the
city, the officer or person designated may notify in writing the owner of
record or occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be
terminated or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be
taken to abate the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be
abated. If the notice of violation is not complied with within the time
specified, the officer or designated person shall report that fact forthwith to
the City Council. Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to the owner
or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition
identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order that if
the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City Council, the
city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the City Council order and
notice of motion for summary enforcement or obtain an administrative search and
seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of this section will permit a continuing
nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with
summary enforcement, the officer or designated person shall determine that a
public nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in the city and that
delay in abatement of the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health,
safety or welfare. The officer or designated person shall notify in writing the
occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance and of the
city's intention to seek summary enforcement and the time and place of the City
Council meeting to consider the question of summary enforcement. The City
Council shall determine whether or not the condition identified in the notice
to the owner or occupant is a nuisance, whether public health, safety or
welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in abatement required to
complete the procedure set forth in division (A) of this section, and may order
that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If the nuisance is not
immediately terminated or abated, the City Council may order summary
enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city or a person who has caused a public nuisance on a property
not owned by that person shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of
the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk or other official shall
prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount
shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk shall,
on or before September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list the
total unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as other charges for
current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101 against each separate lot
or parcel to which the charges are attributable. The City Council may then
spread the charges against the property under that statute and other pertinent
statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection along with
current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten,
as the City Council may determine in each case.
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015) Penalty, see § 92.99
WEEDS
§ 92.35 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the “Weed Ordinance.”
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015)
§ 92.36 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or regulation or
county ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015)
§ 92.37 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the City Council or designated
city official, in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance
violation that shall conform to M.S. § 18.83, Subd. 2, as it may be amended
from time to time.
      MEADOW VEGETATION. Grasses and flowering broad-leaf plants that are
native to, or adapted to, the State of Minnesota, and that are commonly found
in meadow and prairie plant communities, except weeds as defined herein.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION. Includes but is not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be
limited to: alum (allium), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle, Corncockle,
Cressleaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French Weed, Hairy
Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horsenettle, Johnsongrass, Leafy Spurge,
Mile-A-Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial Sowthistle, Poison
Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quackgrass, Russian Knapweed, Russian Thistle,
Serrated Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum, Wild Carrot, Wild Garlic, Wild
Mustard, Wild Onion, Wild Parsnip;
         (b)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
         (c)   Bushes of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
         (d)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers,
or other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12 inches;
         (e)   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth
of annuals and perennial plants;
         (f)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants
or crops.
         (g)   Any other weed designated by M.S. § 18.77, Subd. 8, as it may be
amended from time to time, as noxious.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015)
§ 92.38 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting, or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in
excess of 12 inches in height.
   (B)   These provisions shall not apply to an area established with meadow
vegetation if:
      (1)   The prior vegetation is eliminated and the meadow vegetation is
planted through transplanting or seed by human or mechanical means; and
      (2)   A sign is posted on the property in a location likely to be seen by
the public, advising that a meadow or prairie is being established. This sign
must be no smaller than ten inches square, no larger than one square foot, and
no higher than three feet tall.
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.39 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the City Clerk. If the city makes the complaint, an employee,
officer or Council Member of the city shall file the complaint in all respects
as set out above.
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015)
§ 92.40 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the City Council shall make an
inspection and prepare a written report to the City Council regarding the
condition. The City Council, upon concluding that there is a probable belief
that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward written notification in
the form of a "Destruction Order" to the property owner or the person occupying
the property as that information is contained within the records of the City
Clerk or any other city agency. The notice shall be served in writing by
certified mail. The notice shall provide that within seven regular business
days after the receipt of the notice that the designated violation shall be
removed by the property owner or person occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the City Clerk.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the City Clerk or others is deemed filed on
the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015)
§ 92.41 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the City Council within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and
holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the City Council. It is
the property owner's responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question
is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not otherwise in violation
of this subchapter, and should not be subject to destruction under the
subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council Members in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015)
§ 92.42 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
"Destruction Order" within seven regular business days and has not filed a
notice within 48 hours to the City Clerk of an intent to appeal, the City
Council may employ the services of city employees or outside contractors and
remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means. No person
shall enter the property to abate the nuisance, except with the permission of
the owner, resident or other person in control of the property.
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015)
§ 92.43 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorney's
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the city uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Clerk and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for expenses and
costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. 12-4, passed 11-8-1993; Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Removal of snow and ice
Construction and Repairing of Sidewalks
   
93.30   Permit required
   
93.31   New sidewalk construction
   
93.32   Compliance with specifications and regulations
   
93.33   Subgrade
   
93.34   Forms
   
93.35   Materials
   
93.36   Methods
   
93.37   Sidewalk specifications
   
93.38   Inspection and supervision
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE.
   (A)   Snow and ice - nuisance. All snow and ice remaining upon public
sidewalks is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance, and shall be
abated within 12 hours after such snow or ice has ceased to be deposited:
      (1)   In the case of snow and ice remaining on a sidewalk in front of a
building, by the owner or occupant of such building; or
      (2)   In the case of snow and ice remaining on a sidewalk in front of
vacant property, by the owner of such property.
   (B)   Utilities Supervisor to remove snow and ice. The Utilities Supervisor
shall cause to be removed from all public sidewalks, beginning 24 hours after
any snow or ice has ceased to fall, all snow and ice which may be discovered
thereon, and shall keep a record of the cost of said removal and the lot or
lots adjacent to which such accumulations were found and removed, and shall
deliver such information to the Clerk-Treasurer as soon as the work of removal
is completed.
   (C)   Cost of removal to be assessed. The Clerk-Treasurer shall, upon
direction of the Council, on receipt of the information provided for in
division (B) above to be delivered to him or her by the Utilities Supervisor,
extend the cost of said removal of snow or ice as a special tax against the
lots or parcels of ground abutting on walks which were cleared, and such
special tax shall at the time of certifying taxes to the County Auditor be
certified for collection as other special taxes are certified and collected.
   (D)   Civil suit for cost of removal. The Clerk-Treasurer shall, at the
direction of the Council, bring suit in any court of competent jurisdiction to
recover from the person owning land adjacent to which sidewalks were cleared,
as provided in division (B) above, the cost of said clearing and the costs of
suit in civil action.
   (E)   Clerk-Treasurer to report sidewalks cleared. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
present to the Council at its first meeting after any snow or ice has been
cleared from the sidewalks as provided in division (B) above, a report of the
Utilities Supervisor and shall request the Council to determine by resolution
whether the procedure provided in division (C) or (D) above of this section
should be followed.
(Ord. 14-1, passed 2-14-1972; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIRING OF SIDEWALKS
§ 93.30 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No sidewalk or curb and gutter shall be constructed on any street, alley,
avenue, or other public property in this city without first having obtained a
permit from the City Council. Application for such permit shall be made on
forms to be approved by the City Council, and shall sufficiently describe the
contemplated improvements, the contemplated date of beginning of work, and the
length of time of completion of the same, provided, that no permit shall be
required for any such improvement ordered to be installed by the city.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 2-14-1972) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.31 NEW SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council shall deem it necessary and expedient to
construct or rebuild any sidewalk in the city, it may adopt a resolution to
that effect, which resolution shall specify the place or places where such
sidewalk shall be constructed or rebuilt, the kind and quality of the materials
to be used therein, the width, the size, and manner of construction thereof,
and the time within which the same shall be completed. The Council shall hold a
public hearing on the proposed improvement following two publications in the
newspaper of a notice stating the time and place of the hearing, the general
nature of the improvement, the estimated cost, and the area proposed to be
assessed. The two publications shall be a week apart, and the hearing shall be
at least three days after the last publication. The hearing may be adjourned
from time to time, and a resolution ordering the improvement may be adopted at
any time within six months after the date of the hearing by vote of four-fifths
of all members of the Council.
   (B)   The cost of any improvement, or any part thereof, may be assessed upon
property benefitted by the improvement, whether the property abuts on the
improvement or not, based upon the benefits received. The area assessed may be
less than, but may not exceed, the area proposed to be assessed as stated in
the notice of hearing on the improvement. The city may pay such portion of the
cost of the improvement as the Council may determine from general ad valorem
tax levies or from other revenues or funds of the city available for the
purpose.
   (C)   Any time after a contract is let or the work ordered by day labor, the
expense incurred in its making shall be calculated under the direction of the
Council. The Council shall then determine by resolution the amount of the total
expense the city will pay, other than the amount, if any, which it will pay as
a property owner, and the amount to be assessed. Thereupon, the Clerk-
Treasurer, with the assistance of an engineer or other specially qualified
person selected by the Council, shall calculate the proper amount to be
assessed for the improvement against every assessable lot, piece, or parcel of
land, without regard to cash valuation. The proposed assessment roll shall be
filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and be open to public inspection. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall thereupon, under the Council’s direction, publish notice that
the Council will meet to consider the proposed assessment. Such notice shall be
published in the newspaper at least once, not less than two weeks prior to such
meetings of the Council, and shall state the date, time, and place of such
meeting, and general nature of the improvement, the area proposed to be
assessed, and that written or oral objections will be considered.
   (D)   At such meeting, or at any adjournment thereof, the Council shall hear
and pass upon all objections to the proposed assessment, if any, and may amend
the proposed assessment as to any parcel and by resolution adopt the same as
the special assessment against the lands named in the assessment roll. Notice
of any adjournment of the hearing shall be adequate if the minutes of the
meeting so adjourned show the time and place when and where the hearing is to
be continued, or if three days notice thereof be published in the newspaper.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 2-14-1972) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.32 COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   All sidewalks and curb and gutters constructed upon any street, alley,
avenue, or other public property in this city shall be constructed according to
the plans and specifications herein provided. Before any construction work is
begun, the city, at its own expense, will furnish stakes for the established
grade and for the line of the improvement.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 2-14-1972) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.33 SUBGRADE.
   Subgrade for sidewalks and curb and gutter shall be firm, compact, and of
uniform density. All soft or spongy material or vegetable matter must be
removed and replaced with suitable material. The subgrade shall be finished to
a uniform surface at the required depth below the established grade of the
improvement.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 2-14-1972) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.34 FORMS.
   All forms shall be made of rigid metal or straight and sound lumber not less
than one and one-half inches in thickness. Forms shall be free from warp and of
sufficient strength to resist springing out of shape. All forms shall be
thoroughly cleaned and oiled before the concrete is placed. The forms shall be
securely staked to the established line and grade.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 2-14-1972) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.35 MATERIALS.
   (A)   Cement. The quality of the cement used shall conform to the latest
Standard Specifications for Standard Portland Cement of the American Society of
Testing Materials.
   (B)   Fine aggregate. The fine aggregate shall be sand consisting of
particles of sound, durable rock washed clean and free from an injurious amount
of organic matter, lumps of clay, and other deleterious substance.
   (C)   Coarse aggregate. The coarse aggregate shall be screened gravel or
crushed quarry rock of the proper size. It shall be clean and free from shale
or injurious organic matter.
   (D)   Water. The water used in the concrete shall be reasonably clear, and
shall be free from oil, acid, injurious alkali, or vegetable matter. Not more
than six gallons of water per bag of cement shall be used.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 2-14-1972) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.36 METHODS.
   (A)   The mixture. The materials used in each batch shall be weighed or
accurately measured so as to get a uniform product. The materials shall be
proportioned so as to produce a uniform, dense, workable concrete which will
have a compressive strength of not less than 2,000 pounds per square inch at 28
days. In no case will a mixture be used which has less than six bags of cement
for each cubic yard of concrete.
   (B)   Mixing and placing. The mixing shall be done in an approved batch
mixer until the cement is uniformly distributed, and the mass is uniform in
color and consistency. The mixing period shall be not less than 90 seconds
after all ingredients are in the mixer. The concrete shall be placed in the
forms before it begins to set, tamped and struck off to the proper grade.
   (C)   Curing. The concrete shall be cured by covering with a wet burlap or
other approved covering for three days or by using an admixture of calcium
chloride. If the work is placed in weather when freezing temperature may be
expected, the concrete should be given adequate protection.
   (D)   Moistening. The sand base for concrete walks and the subgrade for curb
and gutter shall be moistened before the concrete is placed.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 2-14-1972) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.37 SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Width. The walks in the business district shall be not less than eight
feet in width and the walks in the residential districts shall be not less than
five feet in width, except where the City Council shall by resolution order
different widths. The width of new walks as far as possible shall conform to
that of adjacent walks.
   (B)   Thickness. The sidewalk shall consist of two parts, referred to as the
base and surfacing. The surfacing of the walk shall be not less than four
inches thick where used by pedestrians only, and not less than six inches in
thickness where crossed by vehicles.
   (C)   The base. The base shall consist of a layer of pit run sand or gravel
not less than four inches in thickness and shall be thoroughly tamped to a
uniform grade. The base of the walk shall not be less than four inches in
thickness, except where the nature of the soil is such that the City Council or
the City Engineer shall order a thicker base.
   (D)   The surface. The surfacing of the walk shall be concrete having a
thickness not less than provided herein, laid to a slope of one-eighth inch per
foot downward towards the street, and shall be composed of materials and placed
according to the methods described above.
   (E)   Joints. Contractions joints shall be made not more than five feet
apart, perpendicular to the center line and to the surface of the sidewalk, and
shall, where possible, align with joints of abutting or adjacent work.
Expansion joints may be preformed or poured type. They shall be one-half inch
wide placed on all property lines, and at uniform intervals not to exceed 30
feet apart. Expansion joints shall also be placed between the walk and all
abutting curbs, buildings and other masonry and concrete work.
   (F)   The finishing. The top surface of the walk shall be checked and
variations of more than one-eighth inch shall be corrected; then the walk shall
be finished with floats and trowels to a smooth true slightly granular surface.
The edge along sides and at transverse joints shall be carefully rounded and
marked with the proper edging tools.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 2-14-1972; Ord. 14-3, passed 10-10-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.38 INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION.
   The City Council shall require inspection and supervision of all work done
hereunder as deemed necessary. Any work not done according to specifications
shall be corrected or removed at the expense of the permit holder. Any
unsatisfactory work in the process of being constructed shall be stopped by the
Inspector as soon as discovered.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 2-14-1972) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a petty
misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a sentence of not more than the maximum
fine imposed under the laws of the State of Minnesota for petty misdemeanor
violations. This chapter is also enforceable through the city administrative
penalty ordinance.
(Ord. 12-2, passed 2-14-1972; Ord. 12-2, passed 2-11-2002; Res. 14-209, passed
2-24-2014)
CHAPTER 94: TREES
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Nuisances declared
   
94.03   Abatement
   
94.04   Planting distances from corner, fireplug, driveways, utilities
   
94.05   Public tree care
   
94.06   Pruning, corner clearance
   
94.07   Tree removal; removal of stumps
   
94.08   Destruction of trees on public property
   
94.09   Storing elm wood prohibited
   
94.10   Arborists or nursery license; liability insurance
   
94.11   Tree Inspector to administer disease control programs
   
94.12   Right of review by the City Council
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LARGE TREE. Any plant material that will grow to a height of over 50 feet.
   MEDIUM TREE. Any plant material that will grow to a height of 50 feet.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all area owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   SMALL TREE. Any plant material that will grow to a height of 30 feet.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues,
boulevards, or ways, within the city.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 11-8-1993)
§ 94.02 NUISANCES DECLARED.
   The following are declared to be public nuisances whenever and wherever they
may be found within the designated Dutch elm disease and/or oak wilt control
areas within the city.
   (A)   Any standing or living tree or part thereof infected to any degree
with the Dutch elm disease fungus, Ceratocystis ulmi (Busiman Moreau), or which
harbors any of the elm bark beetles: Scolytus multistriatus (Eichh) or
Hylurgopinus rugipes (Marsch). And also any dead elm tree or part thereof with
bark intact including logs, branches, stumps, or firewood which has not been
disposed of properly.
   (B)   Any living or standing tree or part thereof in the red oak group (red
oak, pin oak, scarlet oak, black oak) infected to any degree with oak wilt
fungus, Ceratocystis fagecearum (Bretz) Hunt.
   (C)   Also, any living or standing tree in the white oak group (white oak,
bur oak, bicolor oak) that poses a threat of transmission of the oak wilt
fungus to other trees of the same species through interconnected root systems.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 11-8-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 ABATEMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit a public nuisance as defined in §
94.02 to remain on any premises owned or controlled by that person within the
designated control areas of the city. Such nuisances may be abated in the
manner prescribed by this section.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 11-8-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 PLANTING DISTANCES FROM CORNER, FIREPLUG, DRIVEWAYS, UTILITIES.
   (A)   No street tree planted after effective date of this chapter shall be
planted closer than 35 feet to any street corner measured from the point
nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No street tree shall be planted
closer than 15 feet to any fireplug, nor five feet from any driveway.
   (B)   No street trees other than those defined as SMALL TREES in §
94.01 of this chapter may be planted under or within ten level feet of any
overhead utility wire, or over or within ten lateral feet of any underground
water line, sewer, transmission line, or other utility.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 11-8-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   Care of the street trees. The city shall have the right to plant,
prune, maintain, and remove trees, plants, and shrubs within the line of all
streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares, and public grounds as may be
necessary to insure the public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry
and beauty of such public grounds. No other planting may be done without
consent of the City Tree Inspector.
   (B)   Removal of trees endangering utilities or other public improvements.
      (1)   The City Tree Inspector may remove or cause or order to be removed
any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition which by reason of its
nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or
other public improvements or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect, or
other pest.
      (2)   Every tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the city
shall be pruned so that the branches shall not obstruct the light from any
street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection, and so that there
shall be a clear space of at least eight feet above the street or sidewalk.
Dead, diseased, or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which endanger
the safety of the public shall be removed.
   (C)   Trees on private property.
      (1)   The City Tree Inspector shall have the authority to order the
trimming, treatment, and removal of trees, shrubs, or plants upon private
property when such action is necessary to public safety or to prevent the
spread of disease or insects to trees, shrubs, or plants located on public
property. Any tree or shrub situated upon private property, but so situated as
to extend its branches over the improved portion of a public street or highway
easement shall be so trimmed by the owner of the real property upon which the
same is located so that there is a clear height of at least eight feet over
that portion of such easement that is used for vehicular traffic and over that
portion of such easement used for pedestrian travel.
      (2)   Easements shall be unobstructed by branches and property owners
shall remove any dead or diseased branches or stubs of trees which are, or may
become, hazardous to the public use of such easement. Any trees obstructing
traffic-control signs or devices from the view of the pedestrian or motorist
shall be pruned to a height established by the City Council to ensure proper
safety for motorists or pedestrians.
      (3)   All orders to trim or treat trees, shrubs, or plants given pursuant
to this section, shall be in writing and shall be served in person or by first
class mail upon the owner of the property where such trees, shrubs, or plants
are located. Such orders shall afford the owner of notice to comply with such
order. It shall be unlawful for an owner of property receiving such an order to
fail to comply with the order in the time specified.
      (4)   If the required action is not taken by the property owner within
the specified time, the City Council may cause the trees, shrubs, or plants
concerned to be trimmed or treated with the costs being borne by the property
owner. If not voluntarily paid to the city by such owner, the costs of such
trimming or treatment may be recovered by the city by special assessment upon
the property owner.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 11-8-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree on private property overhanging any street or right-
of-way within the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not
obstruct the view on any street intersection and so that there shall be a
clearing of at least eight feet above the surface of the street or sidewalk.
Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased, or dangerous trees or broken or
decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The city
shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property which it
interferes with proper spread of light along the street from a street light or
interferes with visibility of any traffic-control device or sign.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 11-8-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 TREE REMOVAL; REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or
diseased trees on private property within the city, when such trees constitute
a hazard to the life and property or harbor insects or disease which
constitutes a potential threat to other trees within the city. The City Clerk-
Treasurer or his or her representative will notify in writing the owners of
such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their own expense within 30
days after such provisions, the city shall have the authority to remove such
trees and charge the costs of removal on the owner’s property tax notice.
   (B)   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface
of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface
of the ground.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 11-8-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 DESTRUCTION OF TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, alter, or destroy any street
or park tree without the prior authorization of the City Council.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 11-8-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 STORING ELM WOOD PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to store elm logs with bark intact within the
city for more than 72 hours during the period from April 1 through September 15
in any year. Any logs stored contrary to the provisions of this section may be
seized and destroyed by the city.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 11-8-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 ARBORISTS OR NURSERY LICENSE; LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any party to engage in the business or occupation
of pruning, treating, or removing street or park trees within the city without
first applying for, and procuring a license. The license fee shall be set by
the City Council, however, no license shall be required of any public service
company or city employee doing such work in the pursuit of their public service
endeavors. Before any license shall be issued each applicant shall first file
evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of $50,000
for bodily injury and $100,000 property damage indemnifying the city or any
person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as
herein described.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 11-8-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 TREE INSPECTOR TO ADMINISTER DISEASE CONTROL PROGRAMS.
   The Council shall designate a Tree Inspector or tree inspectors, certified
by the Minnesota Commissioner of Agriculture, who shall administer the Dutch
elm disease and/or oak wilt control programs for the city in accordance with
tree disease ordinance and within the designated Dutch elm disease and/or oak
wilt control areas of the city.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 11-8-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 RIGHT OF REVIEW BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
   Any person aggrieved by any ruling or order of the City Tree Inspector may
appeal to the City Council which shall hear the matter and make a final
decision. The City Council may modify, affirm, or reverse any determination of
the City Inspector.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 11-8-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor
and shall be punishable by a sentence of not more than the maximum fine and
period of incarceration imposed under the laws of the State of Minnesota for
misdemeanor violations. This chapter is also enforceable through the city
administrative penalty ordinance.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 11-8-1993; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014) Penalty, see §
94.99
CHAPTER 95: RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
95.01   Findings, purpose, and intent
   
95.02   Election to manage the public rights-of-way
   
95.03   Definitions
   
95.04   Administration
   
95.05   Utility coordination committee
   
95.06   Registration and right-of-way occupancy
   
95.07   Registration information
   
95.08   Reporting obligations
   
95.09   Permit requirement
   
95.10   Permit applications
   
95.11   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
95.12   Action on small wireless facility permit applications
   
95.13   Permit fees
   
95.14   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
95.15   Joint applications
   
95.16   Supplementary applications
   
95.17   Other obligations
   
95.18   Denial or revocation of permit
   
95.19   Installation requirements
   
95.20   Inspection
   
95.21   Work done without a permit
   
95.22   Supplementary notification
   
95.23   Revocation of permits
   
95.24   Mapping data
   
95.25   Location and relocation of facilities
   
95.26   Pre-excavation facilities location
   
95.27   Damage to other facilities
   
95.28   Right-of-way vacation
   
95.29   Indemnification and liability
   
95.30   Abandoned and unusable facilities
   
95.31   Appeal
   
95.32   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
§ 95.01 FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND INTENT.
   (A)   To provide for the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens, and to
ensure the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-
way, the city strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good repair and
free from unnecessary encumbrances.
   (B)   This chapter imposes reasonable regulation on the placement and
maintenance of facilities and equipment currently within its rights-of-way or
to be placed therein at some future time. It is intended to complement the
regulatory roles of state and federal agencies.
   (C)   Under this chapter, persons excavating and obstructing the rights-of-
way will bear financial responsibility for their work.
   (D)   This chapter provides for recovery of out-of-pocket and projected
costs from persons using the public rights-of-way. This chapter shall be
interpreted consistently with M.S. §§ 237.16, 237.162, 237.163, 237.79, 237.81,
and 238.086 (the “Act”) and the other laws governing applicable rights of the
city and users of the right-of-way.
   (E)   This chapter shall also be interpreted consistent with Minn. Rules
7819.0050 through 7819.9950 and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560 where possible. To the
extent any provision of this chapter cannot be interpreted consistently with
the Minnesota Rules, that interpretation most consistent with the Act and other
applicable statutory and case law is intended..
   (F)   This chapter shall not be interpreted to limit the regulatory and
police powers of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.02 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the city hereby elects, pursuant to
M.S. § 237.163, Subd. 2(b), to manage rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply in this chapter of this code. References
hereafter to “sections” are, unless otherwise specified, references to sections
in this chapter. Defined terms remain defined terms, whether or not
capitalized.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A facility no longer in service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other
facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not abandoned
unless declared so by the right-of-way user.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate, obstruct, or
otherwise place facilities in a right-of-way.
   CITY. The City of Lake Park, Minnesota. For purposes of §
95.29, CITY also means the city’s elected officials, officers, employees, and
agents.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace a small wireless facility on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing
wireless support structure or utility pole that is owned privately, or by the
city or other governmental unit.
   COMMISSION. The State of Minnesota Public Utilities Commission.
   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND. Any of the following forms of security
provided at permittee’s option:
      (1)   Individual project bond;
      (2)   Cash deposit;
      (3)   Security of a form listed or approved under M.S. § 15.73, Subd. 3;
      (4)   Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (5)   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (6)   A blanket bond for projects within the city, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the city.
   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rules 7819.1100, means the cost to
achieve a level of restoration, as determined by the city at the time the
permit is issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration shown in plates 1 to
13, set forth in Minn. Rules, parts 7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
   DEGRADATION FEE. The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by
the city to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of
the right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation
cost.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Utilities of the city.
   DIRECTOR. The superintendent of the Department of Public Works of the city,
or her or his designee.
   DELAY PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration as established
by permit.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that:
      (1)   Poses a danger to life or health, or of a significant loss of
property; or
      (2)   Requires immediate repair or replacement of facilities in order to
restore service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain
facilities in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An EXCAVATION PERMIT
allows the holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such
permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in §
95.13.
   FACILITY OR FACILITIES. Any tangible asset in the right-of-way used to
provide utility or telecommunications service.
   FIVE-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next five years.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of such person
or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions
for that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS. The actual costs the city incurs in managing its rights-
of-way, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way or small wireless
facility permit applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects;
maintaining, supporting, protecting, or moving user facilities during right-of-
way work; determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed after providing notice and the opportunity to correct
the work; and revoking right-of-way or small wireless facility permits.
MANAGEMENT COSTS do not include payment by a telecommunications right-of-way
user for the use of the right-of-way, unreasonable fees of a third-party
contractor used by the city including fees tied to or based on customer counts,
access lines, or revenues generated by the right-of-way or for the city, the
fees and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation M.S. §§ 237.162 or
237.163; or any ordinance enacted under those sections, or the city fees and
costs related to appeals taken pursuant to §
95.31 of this chapter.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder
free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way, or so as to
hinder maintenance of any city asset.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a permittee to cover the
costs as provided in §
95.13.
   PATCH or PATCHING. A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in
nature. A PATCH consists of:
      (1)   The compaction of the subbase and aggregate base; and
      (2)   The replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum of
two feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions. A
   PATCH is considered full restoration only when the pavement is included in
the city’s five-year project plan.
   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-
way and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate, or gravel.
   PERMIT. Has the meaning given “right-of-way permit” in this chapter.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way has been granted by the city under this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate, or political.
   REGISTRANT. Any person who:
      (1)   Has or seeks to have its equipment or facilities located in any
right-of-way; or
      (2)   In any way occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the right-
of-way or place its facilities or equipment in the right-of-way.
   RESTORE OR RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
   RESTORATION COST. The amount of money paid to the city by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to plates 1 to 13 of Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission rules.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public
roadway, highway, street, cartway, bicycle lane, or public sidewalk in which
the city has an interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel
purposes and utility easements of the city. A RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include the
airwaves above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other non-wire
telecommunications or broadcast service.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. Either the excavation permit, the obstruction permit,
the small cell permit or any combination thereof depending on the context,
required by this chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER.
      (1)   A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by M.S. §
237.162, Subd. 4; or
      (2)   A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way that
is used or intended to be used for providing utility service, and who has a
right under law, franchise, or ordinance to use the public right-of-way.
   SERVICE OR UTILITY SERVICE. Includes:
      (1)   Those services provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, Subds. 4 and 6;
      (2)   Services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including
transporting of voice or data information;
      (3)   Services of a cable communications systems as defined in M.S. Ch.
238;
      (4)   Natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications services
provided by the city;
      (5)   Services provided by a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Ch. 308A; and
      (6)   Water, and sewer, including service laterals, steam, cooling, or
heating services.
   SERVICE LATERAL. An underground facility that is used to transmit,
distribute or furnish gas, electricity, communications, or water from a common
source to an end-use customer. A SERVICE LATERAL is also an underground
facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer’s premises.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or could fit within such an enclosure; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
facility provided such equipment is, in aggregate, no more than 28 cubic feet
in volume, not including electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical
cable runs for the connection of power and other services, and any equipment
concealed from public view within or behind an existing structure or
concealment.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate or obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already
been issued.
   TEMPORARY SURFACE. The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation. It is temporary in nature except when the replacement is of
pavement included in the city’s two-year plan, in which case it is considered
full restoration.
   TRENCH. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the pavement.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. A person owning or controlling a
facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the
right-of-way that is used or is intended to be used for providing wireless
service, or transporting telecommunication or other voice or data information.
For purposes of this chapter, a cable communication system defined and
regulated under M.S. Ch. 238, and telecommunication activities related to
providing natural gas or electric energy services, a public utility as defined
in M.S. § 216B.02, a municipality, a municipal gas or power agency organized
under M.S. Ch. 453 and 453A, or a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Ch. 308A, are not telecommunications right-of-way users for purposes
of this chapter except to the extent such entity is offering wireless service.
   TWO YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next two years.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole that is used in whole or in part to facilitate
telecommunications or electric service.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision
of wireless services between user equipment and a wireless service network,
including equipment associated with wireless service, a radio transceiver,
antenna, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and a
small wireless facility, but not including wireless support structures,
wireline backhaul facilities, or cables between utility poles or wireless
support structures, or not otherwise immediately adjacent to and directly
associated with a specific antenna.
   WIRELESS SERVICE. Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or by means
of a mobile device, that is provided using wireless facilities. Wireless
service does not include services regulated under Title VI of the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, including cable service.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure in a right-of-way
designed to support or capable of supporting small wireless facilities, as
reasonably determined by the city.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   The director is the principal city official responsible for the
administration of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits, and the ordinances
related thereto. The director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.05 UTILITY COORDINATION COMMITTEE.
   The city may create an advisory utility coordination committee.
Participation on the committee is voluntary. It will be composed of any
registrants that wish to assist the city in obtaining information and, by
making recommendations regarding use of the right-of-way, and to improve the
process of performing construction work therein. The city may determine the
size of such committee and shall appoint members from a list of registrants
that have expressed a desire to assist the city.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.06 REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Registration. Each person authorized to occupy or use, or seeks to
occupy or use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on
the right-of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance
responsibilities by lease, sublease, or assignment, must register with the
city. Registration will consist of providing application information.
   (B)   Registration prior to work. No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof, in any right-of-way without first being registered with the city.
   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the
provisions of a city ordinance permitting persons to plant or maintain
boulevard plantings or gardens in the area of the right-of-way between their
property and the street curb. Persons planting or maintaining boulevard
plantings or gardens shall not be deemed to use or occupy the right-of-way, and
shall not be required to obtain any permits or satisfy any other requirements
for planting or maintaining such boulevard plantings or gardens under this
chapter. However, nothing herein relieves a person from complying with the
provisions of the M.S. Chapter 216D, Gopher One Call Law.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.07 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. Registration shall be requested on an
application form produced by the city. The information provided to the city at
the time of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Each registrant’s name, Gopher One Call registration certificate
number, address and email address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      (2)   The name, address, and email address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Minnesota, or a form of self-insurance acceptable to the city;
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
            1.   Use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and permittees; and
            2.   Placement and use of facilities and equipment in the right-of-
way by the registrant, its officers, agents, employees, and permittees,
including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising from
completed operations, damage of underground facilities, and collapse of
property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers’ compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the city in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
         (f)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
         (g)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate is
required to be filed under state law as recorded and certified to by the
Secretary of State.
         (h)   A copy of the person’s order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other authorization or
approval from the applicable state or federal agency to lawfully operate, where
the person is lawfully required to have such authorization or approval from
said Commission or other state or federal agency.
      (4)   Any other information deemed necessary by the City Engineer deemed
necessary to adequately protect the health, safety, and welfare of the city.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the city information as to
changes within 15 days following the date on which the registrant has knowledge
of any change.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.08 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Operations. Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by
December 1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan for
underground facilities with the city. Such plan shall be submitted using a
format designated by the city and shall contain the information determined by
the city to be necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the
frequency of excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way.
      (1)   The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
         (a)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of
all projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
“next-year project”); and
         (b)   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated
beginning and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five years
following the next calendar year (in this section, a “five-year project”).
      (2)   The term “project” in this section shall include both next-year
projects and five-year projects.
   (B)   By January 1 of each year, the city will have available for inspection
in the city’s office a composite list of all projects of which the city has
been informed of the annual plans. All registrants are responsible for keeping
themselves informed of the current status of this list. Thereafter, by February
1, each registrant may change any project in its list of next-year projects,
and must notify the city and all other registrants of all such changes in said
list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a registrant may at any time join in a
next-year project of another registrant listed by the other registrant.
   (C)   Additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the city if the registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.09 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way, or install or place facilities in
the right-of-way, without first having obtained the appropriate right-of-way
permit from the city to do so.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required by a registrant
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by
placing facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not
required if a person already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same
project.
      (3)   Small wireless facility permit. A small wireless facility permit is
required by a registrant to erect or install a wireless support structure, to
collocate a small wireless facility, or to otherwise install a small wireless
facility in the specified portion or the right-of-way, to the extent specified
therein, provided that such permit shall remain in effect for the length of
time the facility is in use, unless lawfully revoked.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless:
      (1)   Such person makes a supplementary application for another right-of-
way permit before the expiration of the initial permit; and
      (2)   A new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules 7819.1000 Subp. 3 and
notwithstanding division (B) of this section, the city shall establish and
impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation,
obstruction, patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established
from time to time by City Council resolution.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.10 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit is made to the city on forms approved by the City
Engineer or the City Engineer’s designee. Right-of-way permit applications
shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon compliance with, the
requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Registration with the city pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed facilities
and all other information deemed relevant by the City Engineer.
   (C)   Payment of money due to the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs, and other management
costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the city;
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
   (D)   Payment of disputed amounts due the city by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least 110% of the amount
owing.
   (E)   Posting an additional or larger construction performance bond for
additional facilities when applicant requests an excavation permit to install
additional facilities and the city deems the existing construction performance
bond inadequate under applicable standards.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.11 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the city shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, state, and federal laws, including but not limited to
M.S. §§ 216D.01- 216D.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and Minn.
Rules Ch. 7560.
   (C)   Small wireless facility conditions. In addition to division (B), the
erection or installation of a wireless support structure, the collocation of a
small wireless facility, or other installation of a small wireless facility in
the right-of-way, shall be subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on the
particular wireless support structure, under those attachment specifications,
and at the height indicated in the applicable permit application.
      (2)   No new wireless support structure installed within the right-of-way
shall exceed 50 feet in height without the city’s written authorization,
provided that the city may impose a lower height limit in the applicable permit
to protect the public health, safety and welfare or to protect the right-of-way
and its current use, and further provided that a registrant may replace an
existing wireless support structure exceeding 50 feet in height with a
structure of the same height subject to such conditions or requirements as may
be imposed in the applicable permit.
      (3)   No wireless facility may extend more than ten feet above its
wireless support structure.
      (4)   Where an applicant proposes to install a new wireless support
structure in the right-of-way, the city may impose separation requirements
between such structure and any existing wireless support structure or other
facilities in and around the right-of-way.
      (5)   Where an applicant proposes collocation on a decorative wireless
support structure, sign or other structure not intended to support small
wireless facilities, such equipment shall be consistent with the city’s
aesthetic standards regarding wireless equipment as adopted by the City
Engineer. Such standards shall ensure that wireless equipment is installed with
a stealth design and that equipment does not detract from the character of the
area in which it is installed. In addition, the City Engineer shall adopt
standards that ensure city assets can continue to effectively perform their
intended function. Standards shall be made available with the application
required for a small cell permit.
      (6)   Where an applicant proposes to replace a wireless support
structure, the city may impose reasonable restocking, replacement, or
relocation requirements on the replacement of such structure.
      (7)   A permit will be deemed void if the approved equipment is not
installed within one year of issuance of the permit.
   (D)   Small wireless facility agreement. A small wireless facility shall
only be collocated on a small wireless support structure owned or controlled by
the city, or any other city asset in the right-of-way, after the applicant has
executed a standard small wireless facility collocation agreement with the
city.
      (1)   The standard collocation agreement may require payment of the
following:
         (a)   Up to $150 per year for rent to collocate on the city structure;
         (b)   $25 per year for maintenance associated with the collocation;
and/or
         (c)   A monthly fee for electrical service as follows:
            1.   $73 per radio node less than or equal to 100 maximum watts;
            2.   $182 per radio node over 100 maximum watts; or
            3.   The actual costs of electricity, if the actual cost exceed the
foregoing.
      (2)   The standard collocation agreement shall be in addition to, and not
in lieu of, the required small wireless facility permit, provided, however,
that the applicant shall not be additionally required to obtain a license or
franchise in order to collocate. Issuance of a small wireless facility permit
does not supersede, alter or affect any then-existing agreement between the
city and applicant.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.12 ACTION ON SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Deadline for action. The city shall approve or deny a small wireless
facility permit application within 90 days after filing of such application or
within any timeline established by state law. The small wireless facility
permit, and any associated building permit application, shall be deemed
approved if the city fails to approve or deny the application within the review
periods established in this section.
   (B)   Consolidated applications.
      (1)   An applicant may file a consolidated small wireless facility permit
application addressing the proposed collocation of up to 15 small wireless
facilities, or a greater number if agreed to by a local government unit,
provided that all small wireless facilities in the application:
         (a)   Are located within a two-mile radius;
         (b)   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
         (c)   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support
structures.
      (2)   In rendering a decision on a consolidated permit application, the
city may approve some small wireless facilities and deny others, but may not
use denial of one or more permits as a basis to deny all small wireless
facilities in the application.
   (C)   Tolling of deadline. The 90-day deadline for action on a small
wireless facility permit application may be tolled if:
      (1)   The city receives applications from one or more applicants seeking
approval of permits for more than 30 small wireless facilities within a seven-
day period. In such case, the city may extend the deadline for all such
applications by 30 days by informing the affected applicants in writing of such
extension.
      (2)   The applicant fails to submit all required documents or information
and the city provides written notice of incompleteness to the applicant within
30 days of receipt the application. Upon submission of additional documents or
information, the city shall have ten days to notify the applicant in writing of
any still-missing information.
      (3)   The city and a small wireless facility applicant agree in writing
to toll the review period.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.13 PERMIT FEES.
   The city may, by resolution of its Council, establish the following right-
of-way permit fees, which may be amended from time to time:
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall impose an excavation permit fee
in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs;
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall impose an obstruction permit
fee in an amount sufficient to recover the city management costs.
   (C)   Small wireless facility permit fee. The city shall impose a small
wireless facility permit fee in an amount sufficient to recover:
      (1)   Management costs, and;
      (2)   City engineering, make-ready, and construction costs associated
with collocation of small wireless facilities.
   (D)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit, obstruction permit, or
small cell permit shall be issued without payment of all required fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay such fees within 30 days of billing.
   (E)   Non-refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the city
has revoked for a breach as stated in §
95.23 are not refundable.
   (F)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right- of-way user in the franchise.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.14 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under §
95.17.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. Permittee shall patch its own work. The city
may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If, following such
restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee’s improper backfilling, the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, all costs
associated with correcting the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules
7819.3000.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
patching, and restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the city and shall comply with Minn. Rules 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee
upon notification from the city, shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the city. Said work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the city,
not including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonable or
unreasonable under §
95.17.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city at its option may do such work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights under the
construction performance bond.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.15 JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Joint application. Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   Shared fees. Registrants who apply for permits for the same
obstruction or excavation, which the city does not perform, may share in the
payment of the obstruction or excavation permit fee. In order to obtain a joint
permit, registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each will pay
and indicate the same on their applications.
   (C)   With city projects. Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction or
excavation performed by the city, whether or not it is a joint application by
two or more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay the
excavation or obstruction and degradation portions of the permit fee, but a
permit would still be required.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.16 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater
area:
      (1)   Make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby; and
      (2)   Be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.17 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and authority and to pay all fees required by the city or other applicable
rule, law or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, state and federal laws, including but not limited to M.S. §§ 216D.01-
216D.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and Minn. Rules, Ch. 7560. A
permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all applicable codes and
established rules and regulations, and is responsible for all work done in the
right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who does the work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
city, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way. A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those
doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit
area, unless parked in conformance with city parking regulations. The loading
or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined permit area
unless specifically authorized by the permit.
   (D)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to Horizontal Directional Drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Ch. 216D and Minn. Rules, Ch. 7560 and shall require potholing or open
cutting over existing underground utilities before excavating, as determined by
the director.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.18 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Reasons for denial. The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the
requirements and conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the
denial is necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use and any city
asset or facility.
   (B)   Procedural requirements. The denial or revocation of a permit must be
made in writing and must document the basis for the denial. The city must
notify the applicant or right-of-way user in writing within three business days
of the decision to deny or revoke a permit. If an application is denied, the
right-of-way user may address the reasons for denial identified by the city and
resubmit its application. If the application is resubmitted within 30 days of
receipt of the notice of denial, no additional application fee shall be
imposed. The city must approve or deny the resubmitted application within 30
days after submission.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.19 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
7819.1100 and 7819.5000 and other applicable local requirements, in so far as
they are not inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163. Installation of
service laterals shall be performed in accordance with Minn. Rules Ch. 7560 and
these ordinances. Service lateral installation is further subject to those
requirements and conditions set forth by the city in the applicable permits
and/or agreements referenced in §
95.23(B) of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.20 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rules 7819.1300 or other as built documentation as deemed necessary by
the City Engineer.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work site available to the
city and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety,
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The director may issue an order to the permittee for any work that
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the director that
the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented within
the required time, the director may revoke the permit pursuant to §
95.23.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.21 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations. Each registrant shall immediately notify the
director of any event regarding its facilities that it considers to be an
emergency. The registrant may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to
respond to the emergency. Excavators’ notification to Gopher State One Call
regarding an emergency situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two
business days after the occurrence of the emergency, the registrant shall apply
for the necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill the
rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this
chapter for the actions it took in response to the emergency. If the city
becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant’s facilities, the city
will attempt to contact the local representative of each registrant affected,
or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the city may take
whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost of
which shall be borne by the registrant whose facilities occasioned the
emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by the
city code, deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to
the right-of-way, and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.22 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the city of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.23 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit.
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens.
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit.
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee’s control.
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
95.20.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation, or any condition of the permit, the city shall
make a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand
shall state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the
permit. A substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its
discretion, to place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate
and remedy the breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. Permittee’s failure to so
contact the city, or permittee’s failure to timely submit an acceptable plan,
or permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city’s reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred in connection with such revocation.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.24 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required. Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules
7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Within 90 days following completion of any work
pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the director accurate maps
and drawings certifying the “as-built” location of all equipment installed,
owned, and maintained by the permittee. Such maps and drawings shall include
the horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and equipment and shall
be provided consistent with the city’s electronic mapping system, when
practical or as a condition imposed by the director. Failure to provide maps
and drawings pursuant to this division shall be grounds for revoking the permit
holder’s registration.
   (B)   Service laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules 7560.0150,
Subp. 2, shall require the permittee’s use of appropriate means of establishing
the horizontal locations of installed service laterals and the service lateral
vertical locations in those cases where the director reasonably requires it.
Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the director evidence
satisfactory to the director of the installed service lateral locations.
Compliance with this division and with applicable Gopher State One Call law and
Minn. Rules governing service laterals installed after December 31, 2005, shall
be a condition of any city approval necessary for:
      (1)   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project,
including those under M.S. Ch. 429; and
      (2)   City approval under development agreements or other subdivision or
site plan approval under M.S. Ch. 462. The director shall reasonably determine
the appropriate method of providing such information to the city. Failure to
provide prompt and accurate information on the service laterals installed may
result in the revocation of the permit issued for the work or future permits to
the offending permittee or its subcontractors.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.25 LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must comply with the
Act, with other applicable law, with other applicable standards adopted by the
City Engineer, and with Minn. Rules 7819.3100, 7819.5000, and 7819.5100, to the
extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Undergrounding. Unless otherwise agreed in a franchise or other
agreement between the applicable right-of-way user and the city, facilities in
the right-of-way must be located or relocated and maintained underground in
accordance with Chapter 96 of the City Code.
   (C)   Corridors. The city may assign a specific area within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facility that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue. Any
registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position at variance
with the corridors established by the city shall, no later than at the time of
the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the facilities are
located, move the facilities to the assigned position within the right-of-way,
unless this requirement is waived by the city for good cause shown, upon
consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the facilities,
public safety, customer service needs, and hardship to the registrant.
   (D)   Nuisance. One year after the passage of this chapter, any facilities
found in a right-of-way that have not been registered shall be deemed to be a
nuisance. The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in
equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or taking
possession of the facilities and restoring the right-of-way to a useable
condition.
   (E)   Limitation of space. To protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
public, or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the
city shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or
additional facilities within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the
city shall strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and
potential users of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by
considerations of the public interest, the public’s needs for the particular
utility service, the condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with
respect to essential utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the
right-of-way, and future city plans for public improvements and development
projects which have been determined to be in the public interest.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.26 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. § 216D.01-216D.09
(“One Call Excavation Notice System”) before the start date of any right-of-way
excavation, each registrant who has facilities or equipment in the area to be
excavated shall mark the horizontal and vertical placement of all said
facilities. Any registrant whose facilities are less than 20 inches below a
concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work closely with the excavation
contractor to establish the exact location of its facilities and the best
procedure for excavation.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.27 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move a registrant’s facilities to protect it, the city
shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing. Each registrant shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which it or its
facilities damage. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of
repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused during the
city’s response to an emergency occasioned by that registrant’s facilities.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.28 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the city vacates a right-of-way that contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules 7819.3200.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.29 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By registering with the city, or by accepting a permit under this chapter, a
registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance
with the provisions of Minn. Rules 7819.1250.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.30 ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the city must provide
information satisfactory to the city that the registrant’s obligations for its
facilities in the right-of-way under this chapter have been lawfully assumed by
another registrant.
   (B)   Removal. Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove it from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with
other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement
is waived by the city.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.31 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that has been denied registration, has been denied a
permit, has had a permit revoked, believes that the fees imposed are not in
conformity with M.S. § 237.163, Subd. 6, or disputes a determination of the
director regarding §
95.24(B) of this chapter may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or
decision reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council. The City Council
shall act on a timely written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting,
provided the right-of-way user has submitted its appeal with sufficient time to
include the appeal as a regular agenda item. A decision by the City Council
affirming the denial, revocation, or fee imposition will be in writing and
supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 95.32 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee’s rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
city to adopt and enforce general ordinances as necessary to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-8-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS, AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   TOBACCO PRODUCTS
      
112.   LIQUOR REGULATIONS
      
113.   TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL PRODUCT SALES
      
114.   CANNABIS BUSINESS REGISTRATION
CHAPTER 110: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   License required
   
110.04   Fees
   
110.05   County license
   
110.06   Application
   
110.07   Bond required
   
110.08   Duration of license
   
110.09   License not transferable
   
110.10   License to be carried
   
110.11   Person in charge of premises
   
110.12   Exemptions
   
110.13   Prohibited solicitation practice
   
110.14   Revocation or suspension
   
110.15   Appeal and review
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This section is not intended to in any way hinder, delay, or interfere
with legitimate business or organizational activities. This section is to
assure that transient merchants, hawkers, peddlers, and solicitors do not use
public streets and their direct contact with residents of the city for the
illegitimate solicitation practices of harassment, nuisance, theft, deceit, or
menacing, troublesome, or unlawful activities.
   (B)   This section is intended to ferret out and control:
      (1)   Businesses and organizations using solicitation as a means of
concealing unlawful activities;
      (2)   Businesses and organizations which, though its activities be lawful
or even commendable, use such illegitimate practices in solicitation; and
      (3)   Individual natural persons who, though they represent lawful
businesses and organizations, use such illegitimate solicitation practices.
(Ord. 15-2, passed 11-10-2001)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAWKER and PEDDLER. Any person or entity selling any goods or products from
a vehicle, or pack, going about from place to place carrying said goods or
products for the purpose of sale and delivery. If the goods or products are
edible, the person or entity is a HAWKER; if the goods are nonedible, such a
person or entity is a PEDDLER.
   SOLICITOR. Any person or entity selling goods by sample or taking orders for
future delivery and accepting a deposit or advance payment is a SOLICITOR,
provided, any person or entity taking orders to be filled by goods delivered to
the purchaser from other states in the original package shall not be included.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person or entity selling any merchandise, either as
principal or agent, from a building or lot which he or she occupies as a tenant
at will, or under a lease for a shorter term than six months, or from a
railroad car, a truck, or any other vehicle, or any person engaged in selling
ice cream, ice cream products, popcorn, or soft drinks in booths or stands or
in a temporary building.
(Ord. 15-2, passed 11-10-2001)
§ 110.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No transient merchant, hawker, peddler, or solicitor shall sell or offer for
sale any merchandise or attempt to do any business in the city without first
having obtained all the required licenses. Transient merchants must obtain a
license from the city and from the County Auditor. Hawkers and peddlers must
obtain a license from the city.
(Ord. 15-2, passed 11-10-2001) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 FEES.
   (A)   Application and license fees paid to the city shall be as determined
from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   The following schedule of fees for the purpose of licensing transient
merchants, hawkers, peddlers, or solicitors within the city is hereby adopted.
 
Daily license       $25
(for one day)
Annual license      $100
(for calendar year)
 
(Ord. 15-2, passed 11-10-2001; Res. 01-121, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 110.05 COUNTY LICENSE.
   No application for a transient merchant license shall be accepted unless the
applicant produces a current and valid license issued by the County Auditor
that authorizes the applicant to be a transient merchant in the county.
(Ord. 15-2, passed 11-10-2001)
§ 110.06 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every application for a license shall be made to the City Clerk-
Treasurer on forms supplied by the city. Application forms may be obtained from
the City Clerk-Treasurer upon payment of the required application fee. The
application shall:
      (1)   State the applicant’s true and correct legal name, address, and
telephone number;
      (2)   Identify the type license requested;
      (3)   Identify the premises at which the licensed activity will occur, if
any;
      (4)   Identify any other business operated from the same premises;
      (5)   Identify the length of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   Identify all persons associated with the licensed activity by name
and address;
      (7)   Identify the type of thing or things to be sold;
      (8)   Identify the place or places of residence or principal place of
business of the applicant for the past five years; and
      (9)   Identify the applicant’s state sales tax number.
   (B)   Applications shall be accompanied by the required surety bond. Every
application shall bear the written approval of the Chief of Police after
investigation. All applications shall be submitted to the City Council and a
license may be issued by the City Clerk-Treasurer only after approval by the
City Council.
(Ord. 15-2, passed 11-10-2001)
§ 110.07 BOND REQUIRED.
   No transient merchant, hawker, peddler, or solicitor license shall be issued
unless and until the applicant files with the city a corporate surety bond in
the sum or sums determined appropriate from time to time by resolution of the
City Council, with sufficient sureties and in favor of the city or persons
harmed and for the benefit of any residents who may sustain individual loss by
means of fraud, artifice, trick, or other means of theft practices by the
licensee on such resident, as determined in the discretion of the City Council.
(Ord. 15-2, passed 11-10-2001) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   Every license shall be valid only for the period specified therein and no
license will extend for a period beyond December 31 in any given year.
(Ord. 15-2, passed 11-10-2001)
§ 110.09 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Licenses issued under this chapter are not transferable. No refunds shall be
made on unused portions of licenses. Each person or entity engaged in an
activity that requires a license must have a separate license.
(Ord. 15-2, passed 11-10-2001) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 LICENSE TO BE CARRIED.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be carried by the licensee or
conspicuously displayed in the place where the licensed activity occurs and the
license shall be shown to any officer or citizen upon request.
(Ord. 15-2, passed 11-10-2001) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 PERSON IN CHARGE OF PREMISES.
   The owner or person in charge of any premises within the city who enters
into an agreement with a transient merchant or solicitor as defined herein to
operate or temporarily conduct a transient merchant business on such premises
shall be responsible for the conduct of such business upon his or her premises,
including the application for and obtaining of a license for such transient
merchant business as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 15-2, passed 11-10-2001) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This section shall not apply to the following persons or organizations
if the following procedure has been accomplished:
      (1)   Sworn application has been made to the City Clerk-Treasurer showing
name of organization, address, period of solicitation, location of
solicitation, and items to be sold;
      (2)   The City Clerk-Treasurer has investigated and found such statements
to be true and for charitable purpose and therefore issued a permit without
charge; and
      (3)   If the use of city property is requested, Council approval shall be
required.
   (B)   Persons duly licensed or specifically exempted from licensing under
the Constitution and laws of the state, or the City Council, at such times as
such persons are conducting only the activity described by said laws.
   (C)   Persons making an initial uninvited call upon the householders of the
city as preliminary to the subsequent establishment of a regular route service
for the sale and delivery to customers of the daily necessities of life which
are perishable or subject to spoiling within a reasonable period of time.
   (D)   Charitable organizations, and representatives thereof, duly registered
under the laws of the state as set forth in M.S. §§ 309.50 through 309.61, as
they may be amended from time to time, or those specifically exempted from
registration under the provisions thereof, including but not limited to
schools, scouts, organized youth athletic leagues, social, fraternal,
educational, or related organizations and their representatives.
   (E)   Farmers or truck gardeners who offer for sale or sell, or who peddle
from house to house or in the markets, vegetables, butter, eggs, or other farm
or garden products produced and raised by said farmer or truck gardener from
lands occupied and cultivated by him or her in the county. Provided, that every
such farmer or truck gardener claiming the exemption from the license
requirements of this section shall upon request of the City Clerk-Treasurer,
present satisfactory proof by means of sworn statements or otherwise, that such
farmer or truck gardener is entitled to such license exemptions; provided
further that whoever shall execute a false sworn statement or make any false
representations which shall induce the city to grant such exemption, shall upon
conviction thereof, be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 15-2, passed 11-10-2001) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION PRACTICE.
   It is unlawful for any transient merchant, hawker, peddler, or solicitor to:
   (A)   Engage in solicitation for any unlawful business or organizational
purpose or activity;
   (B)   Practice harassment; nuisance, theft, deceit, or menacing,
troublesome, or otherwise unlawful activities during the course of
solicitation;
   (C)   Solicit to residential premises displaying at such entrance a sign
with the words “Peddlers and Solicitors Prohibited” or “Solicitors Prohibited;”
   (D)   Refuse to leave premises when requested by owner, lessee, or person in
charge thereof;
   (E)   Call attention to the business or to his or her merchandise by crying
out, by blowing a horn, by a ringing a bell, or by any loud or unusual noise;
   (F)   Display merchandise, park a vehicle, or place a temporary structure in
such place or position as to prohibit or interfere with the movement of traffic
or restrict the view of traffic on any city sidewalk, street, or highway; or
   (G)   Display or sell the merchandise on any right-of-way or public
property.
(Ord. 15-2, passed 11-10-2001) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.14 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be suspended or revoked by the City Clerk or City
Council at any time for the following reasons:
      (1)   For conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the
time of issuance, would have been valid grounds for its denial;
      (2)   For any misrepresentation of a material fact in the application
discovered after issuance of the license;
      (3)   For any misrepresentation or materially false statement made in the
course of carrying on the trade, business or profession;
      (4)   For violation of any provision of this chapter or other federal,
state or municipal law or ordinance relating to the operation of the business
or enterprise for which the license has been issued; or
      (5)   Upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state or municipal
law or ordinance involving the creation of a nuisance, a breach of the peace,
interference with the rights of property owners, or any other offense
constituting a threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
   (B)   The suspension or revocation shall become effective upon notice served
upon the licensee. The notice shall contain a written summary of the reasons
for the suspension or revocation and a statement concerning the right to appeal
the decision. The notice shall be delivered by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the address given on the licensee’s application.
(Ord. 15-2, passed 11-10-2001)
§ 110.15 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license by the City Clerk, or if his
or her license has been suspended or revoked by the City Clerk, the applicant
or licensee shall within ten business days have the right to appeal to the City
Council from the denial, suspension or revocation. Notice of appeal shall be
filed in writing with the Mayor or other authorized official. Unless a regular
meeting of the City Council at which the appeal can be heard is scheduled
within 21 days after receiving the notice of appeal, the Mayor shall schedule a
special meeting of the City Council for the hearing within the 21-day period.
The appellant may appear and be heard in person or by counsel. If, after
hearing, a majority of the members of the City Council present at the meeting
declare in favor of the applicant, the license shall be issued or fully
reinstated as the case may be; otherwise the suspension or revocation shall
become final.
(Ord. 15-2, passed 11-10-2001)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any transient merchant, hawker, peddler, or solicitor who engages in any
activity that requires a license under this chapter without possession of a
current and un-revoked license shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. This chapter
may be enforced by the city administrative penalty ordinance.
(Ord. 15-2, passed 11-10-2001)
CHAPTER 111: TOBACCO PRODUCTS
Section
   
111.01   License required
   
111.02   Sales prohibited to minors
   
111.03   Self-service sales
   
111.04   Vending machine sales
   
111.05   Compliance checks
   
111.06   Affirmative defense
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall keep for retail sale, sell at retail, or otherwise
dispose of any tobacco product at any place in the city without first obtaining
a license from the city.
   (B)   TOBACCO is defined as and includes: cigarettes; cigars; cheroots;
stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other
smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff flour; Cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine
cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts, refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and
sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco, prepared in such a
manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or other tobacco-
related devices.
   (C)   The annual license fee for retail tobacco licenses shall be as
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council. All retail
tobacco licenses shall be valid for one calendar year from January 1 to
December 31 and there shall be no proration of license fees for licenses during
the calendar year.
   (D)   Every license shall be conspicuously posted at the place for which the
license is issued and shall be exhibited to any person upon request.
(Ord. 6-3, passed 12-8-1997; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 SALES PROHIBITED TO MINORS.
   No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco or tobacco product to any
person under 18 years of age.
(Ord. 6-3, passed 12-8-1997) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 SELF-SERVICE SALES.
   (A)   No licensee shall offer for sale single packages of cigarettes or
smokeless tobacco in open displays which are accessible to the public without
the intervention of a store employee.
   (B)   Cartons and other multi-pack units may be offered and sold through
open displays accessible to the public.
   (C)   Division (B) above of this section will expire upon the effective date
and implementation of 21 C.F.R. part 897.16(c).
   (D)   The self-service restrictions described in this section shall not
apply to retail stores which derive at least 90% of their revenue from tobacco
and tobacco-related products and which cannot be entered at any time by persons
younger than 18 years of age.
(Ord. 6-3, passed 12-8-1997) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 VENDING MACHINE SALES.
   No person shall sell tobacco products from vending machines. This section
does not apply to vending machines in facilities that cannot be entered at any
time by persons younger than 18 years of age.
(Ord. 6-3, passed 12-8-1997) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   The city shall conduct unannounced compliance checks at least once each
calendar year at each location where tobacco is sold to test compliance with
M.S. § 609.685, as it may be amended from time to time. Compliance checks shall
utilize minors over the age of 15, but under the age of 18, who with the prior
written consent of a parent or guardian, attempt to purchase tobacco under the
direct supervision of a law enforcement officer or an employee of the licensing
authority.
(Ord. 6-3, passed 12-8-1997) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   It is an affirmative defense to the charge of selling tobacco to a person
under the age of 18 years in violation of this chapter that the licensee or
individual making the sale relied in good faith upon proof of age as follows:
   (A)   A valid driver’s license or identification card issued by the state,
another state, or a province of Canada, and including the photograph and date
of birth of the licensed person;
   (B)   A valid military identification card issued by the United States
Department of Defense; or
   (C)   In the case of a foreign national, from a nation other than Canada, by
a valid passport.
(Ord. 6-3, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If a licensee or employee of a licensee sells tobacco to a person
under the age of 18 years, or violates any other provisions of this chapter,
the licensee shall be charged an administrative penalty of $75. An
administrative penalty of $200 must be imposed for a second violation at the
same location within 24 months after the initial violation. For a third
violation at the same location within 24 months after the initial violation, an
administrative penalty of $250 must be imposed, and the licensee’s authority to
sell tobacco at the location must be suspended for not less than seven days. No
suspension or penalty may take effect until the licensee has received notice,
served personally or by mail, of the alleged violation and an opportunity for a
hearing before a person authorized by the city to conduct the hearing.
   (B)   An individual who sells tobacco to a person under the age of 18 years
must be charged an administrative penalty of $50. No penalty may be imposed
until the individual has received notice, served personally or by mail, of the
alleged violation and an opportunity for a hearing before a person authorized
by the city to conduct the hearing.
(Ord. 6-3, passed 12-8-1997)
CHAPTER 112: LIQUOR REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   State statutes adopted by reference
Municipal Liquor Dispensary
   
112.15   Dispensary established
   
112.16   Location and operation
   
112.17   Dispensary Fund created
   
112.18   Conditions of operation and restrictions on consumption
Sale of 3.2% Malt Liquor
   
112.35   Fees
   
112.36   Place of consumption
Sale of Intoxicating Liquor
   
112.55   Authority to grant licenses
   
112.56   Fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the city hereby adopts and incorporates
herein the definitions of M.S. § 340A.101, as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 11-1, passed 2-14-1972; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014)
§ 112.02 STATE STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city hereby adopts and incorporates by reference all of the provisions
of M.S. §§ 340A.401 to 340A.703, as may be amended from time to time.
(Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014)
MUNICIPAL LIQUOR DISPENSARY
§ 112.15 DISPENSARY ESTABLISHED.
   The establishment of a municipal liquor dispensary for the on sale and off
sale of intoxicating liquor is hereby continued.
(Ord. 11-1, passed 2-14-1972)
§ 112.16 LOCATION AND OPERATION.
   (A)   The management of the dispensary shall be under the control of the
Council. The dispensary shall be in the immediate charge of a liquor store
manager selected by the Council, and paid such compensation as is fixed by the
Council. The manager shall operate the dispensary under the direction of the
Council and shall perform such duties in connection with the dispensary as may
be imposed upon him or her by the Council. He or she shall be responsible to
the Council for the conduct of the dispensary in full compliance with this
chapter, and with the laws relating to the sale of liquor and beer.
   (B)   The Council shall also appoint such additional employees as may be
required for the dispensary and shall fix their compensation. All employees,
including the manager, shall hold their positions at the pleasure of the
Council. No minor shall be employed in the dispensary.
(Ord. 11-1, passed 2-14-1972; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.17 DISPENSARY FUND CREATED.
   (A)   The creation of a Municipal Liquor Dispensary Fund in which all
revenues received from the operation of the dispensary shall be deposited and
from which all ordinary operation expenses shall be paid is hereby continued.
   (B)   The handling of municipal liquor dispensary receipts and disbursements
shall comply with the procedure prescribed by law for the receipt and
disbursement of city funds generally.
   (C)   The accounting procedure of the dispensary shall be established by the
Council, but the maintenance of a perpetual daily inventory shall be provided
for.
(Ord. 11-1, passed 2-14-1972)
§ 112.18 CONDITIONS OF OPERATION AND RESTRICTIONS ON CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   The principal business of the dispensary shall be the “on sale” and
“off sale” of alcoholic beverages, including liquor, wine, beer, and malt
liquor.
   (B)   No liquor, wine, beer, or malt liquor shall be sold on credit.
Customers may use regularly accepted credit cards.
   (C)   No person shall be permitted to loiter about the dispensary
habitually.
   (D)   Disruptive, violent, abusive, or threatening behavior shall not be
tolerated. Vandalism shall not be tolerated. Persons exhibiting such behavior
or engaging in such activities may be prohibited from entering the dispensary
by the manager.
   (E)   Persons under the age of 21 may not enter the dispensary for the
purpose of purchasing or having served or delivered any alcoholic beverages.
Persons under the age of 21 may enter the off sale premises provided they are
accompanied by a parent or guardian over the age of 21 and provided they remain
in the premises no longer than five minutes. Persons under the age of 21 may
enter the on sale premises on the first Saturday of each February from 8:00 am.
until 12:00 noon.
   (F)   All restrictions relating to the manner of conducting the sale of
intoxicating liquor on premises licensed for such sale, and the maintenance of
order on such premises, shall also apply to the municipal liquor dispensary,
insofar as they can be made applicable. All duties imposed by such restrictions
on the licensee shall be imposed on the dispensary manager, with regard to the
manner of conducting business of the liquor dispensary.
(Ord. 11-1, passed 2-14-1972; Ord. 11-1, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
SALE OF 3.2% MALT LIQUOR
§ 112.35 FEES.
   (A)   All application for licenses shall be accompanied by the required fee,
for which the City Clerk-Treasurer shall give the applicant a receipt. All such
fees shall be paid into the general fund of the city. Upon rejection of an
application for license, the Clerk-Treasurer shall refund the amount paid.
      (1)   The annual fee for a license shall be $50 for “on sale.”
      (2)   The annual fee for a license shall be $50 for “off sale.”
   (B)   All licenses shall expire at noon January 1, each year; provided that
for any license applied for after January 1, the fee shall be pro-rated monthly
portions of the license year remaining.
(Ord. 11-1, passed 2-14-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.36 PLACE OF CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   No intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquor shall be consumed in a public
park, on a public street, or in any public place.
   (B)   Special licenses may be issued for the sale and consumption of 3.2%
malt liquor in designated public places.
(Ord. 11-1, passed 2-14-1972; Ord. 11-1, passed 8-27-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
SALE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR
§ 112.55 AUTHORITY TO GRANT LICENSES.
   The City Council, by split liquor referendum of June 23, 1981, is authorized
to issue “on sale” intoxicating liquor licenses to clubs, hotels, and
restaurants as defined in M.S. § 340a.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 11-1, passed 10-14-1985)
§ 112.56 FEES.
   (A)   All application for licenses shall be accompanied by the required fee,
for which the City Clerk-Treasurer shall give the applicant a receipt.
   (B)   All such fees shall be paid into the general fund of the city. Upon
rejection of an application for license, the Clerk-Treasurer shall refund the
amount paid.
      (1)   The annual fee for a club license shall be $200 for on sale only.
      (2)   The annual fee for a hotel or restaurant license shall be $3000 for
on sale only.
   (C)   All licenses shall expire at noon on January 1 in each year.
(Ord. 11-1, passed 10-14-1985)
CHAPTER 113: TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL PRODUCT SALES
Section
   
113.01   Purpose and intent
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   License
   
113.04   Fees
   
113.05   Ineligibility and basis for denial of license
   
113.06   Procedure upon denial, suspension, non-renewal, or revocation of
license
   
113.07   Prohibited acts
   
113.08   Other illegal acts
   
113.09   Storage
   
113.10   Responsibility
   
113.11   Compliance checks and inspections
   
113.12   Medical cannabis manufacture, dispensing, and use
 
   
113.99   Violations and penalty
§ 113.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   By enacting Laws 2022, Chapter 98, Article 13 the Minnesota Legislature
amended M.S. § 151.72 and legalized the sale and adult use of certain products
containing tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). The purpose of this section is to
regulate the sale of products that contain THC (“THC product” or “licensed
product”) and are intended for human or animal consumption, excluding “medical
cannabis” as defined by M.S. § 152.22, Subdivision 6, as the same may be
amended from time to time, for the following reasons:
   (A)   The city recognizes that, based on the most reliable and up-to-date
scientific evidence, the rapid introduction of newly legalized adult-use THC
products presents a significant potential threat to the public health, safety,
and welfare of the residents of the city, and particularly to youth.
   (B)   The city has the opportunity to be proactive and make decisions that
will mitigate this threat and reduce exposure of young people to the products
or to the marketing of these products and improve compliance among THC product
retailers with laws prohibiting the sale or marketing of THC products to
minors.
   (C)   A local regulatory system for THC product retailers is appropriate to
ensure that retailers comply with THC product laws and business standards of
the city to protect the health, safety, and welfare of our youth and most
vulnerable residents.
   (D)   State law requires THC product retailers to check the identification
of purchasers to verify that they are at least 21 years of age, comply with
certain packaging and labeling requirements to protect children and youth, and
meet certain potency and serving size requirements.
   (E)   State law authorizes the Board of Pharmacy to adopt product and
testing standards in part to curb the illegal sale and distribution of THC
products and ensure the safety and compliance of commercially available THC
products in the State of Minnesota.
   (F)   State law does not preempt the authority of a local jurisdiction to
adopt and enforce local ordinances to regulate THC product businesses
including, but not limited to, local zoning and land use requirements and
business license requirements.
   (G)   A requirement for a THC product retailer license will not unduly
burden legitimate business activities of retailers who sell or distribute THC
products to adults, but will allow the city to regulate the operation of lawful
businesses to discourage violations of state and local THC product-related
laws.
   (H)   In making these findings and enacting this chapter, the City Council
intends to ensure responsible THC product retailing, allow legal sale and
access without promoting increases in use, and discourage violations of THC
product-related laws, especially those which prohibit or discourage the
marketing, sale, distribution, possession, and use of THC products to or by
youth under 21 years of age.
(Ord. 23-301, passed 3-13-2022)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The following words, terms,
and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this section:
   APPLICANT. The natural person or business entity applying for a license
under this chapter, and in the case of a business entity, any owner of that
business entity.
   ASSISTANCE or INTERVENTION. The actual physical exchange of the licensed
product between the customer, and the licensee or employee of licensee.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell licensed products are following and complying with the
requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be conducted by the
city or other units of government for educational, research, and training
purposes, or for investigating or enforcing federal, state, or local laws and
regulations relating to licensed products.
   EXCLUSIVE LIQUOR STORE. An establishment that meets the definition of
exclusive liquor store in M.S. § 340A.101, Subdivision 10.
   FIXED PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated from a fixed address
storefront or other permanent type of structure that is not a “moveable place
of business”.
   LICENSE. A license issued under this chapter.
   LICENSED PRODUCT or THC PRODUCT. Any product that contains more than trace
amounts of tetrahydrocannabinol and that meets the requirements to be sold for
human or animal consumption under M.S. § 151.72, as the same may be amended
from time to time. LICENSED PRODUCT and THC PRODUCT does not include “medical
cannabis”.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS. The meaning provided in M.S. § 152.22, Subdivision 6, as
the same may be amended from time to time.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a kiosk,
truck, van, automobile, trailer, or other type of vehicle or transportable
shelter and is not a fixed address storefront or other permanent type of
structure authorized for sales transactions.
   NATURAL PERSON. A human being.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where licensed products are
available for sale to the general public.
   RESTAURANT. The meaning given in M.S. § 157.15, Subdivision 12, as the same
may be amended from time to time.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter, or other
consideration.
   SCHOOL. Any public or private elementary, vocational, or secondary school,
or a public or private college or university, pre-school, or a state licensed
day care center.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of licensed products in any manner
where any person has access to the licensed products without the assistance or
intervention of the licensee or the licensee's employee.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric, electronic, or other type of
device that dispenses licensed products upon the use of cash, coins, tokens,
credit or debit card, personal identification number, or any form of direct or
indirect payment, by the person seeking to purchase the licensed product.
(Ord. 23-301, passed 3-13-2022)
§ 113.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. No natural person, corporation, partnership, limited
liability company, business entity, or organization of any type shall sell,
donate, give away, or otherwise transfer any THC product, or offer to do so,
without first having obtained a license to do so from the city.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   An application for a license to sell THC products shall be made on
a form provided by the city and approved by the City Council. Every application
for a license shall be verified and filed with the City Clerk or the City
Clerk’s designee. The application shall consist of information found in
division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   Form of applicant. The application shall show whether the applicant
is a natural person, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or
other form of organization.
         (a)   Natural person. If the applicant is a natural person, the
following information shall be required:
            1.   Full legal name, place and date of birth and street address of
applicant.
            2.   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a name
other than his or her true legal name and, if so, what was such name or names,
and information concerning dates and places where used.
            3.   The name of the business if it is to be conducted under a
designation, name, or style other than the full individual name of the
applicant.
            4.   Street addresses at which applicant lived during the preceding
five years.
            5.   Kind, name and location of every business or occupation
applicant has been engaged in during the preceding five years.
            6.   Names and addresses of applicant's employers and business
partners, if any, for the preceding five years.
            7.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of any felony,
crime, or violation of any ordinance, other than traffic offenses, except that
alcohol related driving offenses shall be reported. If so, the applicant shall
furnish information as to the time, place and offense for which convictions
were had.
            8.   Whether applicant has ever been engaged as an employer or in
operating a business of a similar nature. If so, applicant shall furnish
information as to the time, place, and length of time of such operation.
            9.   Whether applicant has ever been in the military service. If
so, applicant shall upon request exhibit all discharges.
            10.   The name of the operating officer, manager or proprietor or
other agent in charge of the premises to be licensed, if different than the
applicant.
            11.   Certification that the applicant has liability insurance
covering the applicant’s sale of THC products.
         (b)   Partnership or limited liability partnership. If the applicant
is a partnership or limited liability partnership, the names and addresses of
all partners and all information concerning each partner as is required of a
single applicant in division (B)(2)(a) above. A managing partner, or partners,
shall be designated. The interest of each partner in the business shall be
disclosed. A true copy of the applicant’s partnership agreement, if any, shall
be submitted with the application. If and in the event the composition of the
partnership shall change at any time subsequent to the initial application, any
amended partnership agreements must be filed with the city.
         (c)   Corporation, limited liability company, or other business
entity. If the applicant is a corporation, limited liability company, or any
other business entity, the following information shall be required:
            1.   Company name and state of incorporation or organization.
            2.   A true copy of Certificate of Incorporation or Organization,
Articles of Incorporation or Organization, and, if a foreign corporation, any
certificate of authority to conduct business in the State of Minnesota as may
be required by state law.
            3.   The name of the operating officer, manager, proprietor, or
other agent in charge of the premises to be licensed, giving all the
information about said person as is required of a single applicant in division
(B)(2)(a) above.
            4.   A list of all persons who, whether individually or with
another, own or control any interest in said corporation or association
together with their addresses and all information as is required of a single
applicant in division (B)(2)(a) above.
            5.   The name of the business if it is to be conducted under a
designation, name, or style other than the full legal name of the applicant.
         (d)   Legal description and street address. The street address and
exact legal description of the premises to be licensed, together with a plan,
sketch, or drawing of the area showing dimensions, location of buildings,
street access, parking facilities and the locations of and distances to the
nearest place of worship and school building.
         (e)   Floorplan. A diagram or sketch depicting the licensed premises
and the area within the licensed premises where the licensed product will be
sold.
         (f)   Age 21 and older retailer. Certification as to whether access to
the licensed premises will be limited to persons age 21 or older.
         (g)   Disclosure of ownership interests. At the time of application,
each applicant that is not a natural person shall furnish the city with a list
of all persons that have an interest of 5% or more in the business. The list
shall name all owners and show the interest held by each, either individually
or beneficially for others. It is the duty of each business licensee to notify
the City Clerk in writing of any change in ownership in the business. Any
change in the ownership or control of the business shall be deemed equivalent
to a transfer of the license, and any such license shall be revoked 30 days
after any such change in ownership or control unless the licensee has notified
the Council of the change in ownership by submitting a new license application
for the new owners, and the Council has approved the transfer of the license by
appropriate action. Any time an additional investigation is required because of
a change in ownership or control of a business, the licensee shall pay an
additional investigation fee to be determined by the city. The city may at any
reasonable time examine the transfer records and minute books of any business
licensee to verify and identify the owners, and the city may examine the
business records of any other licensee to the extent necessary to disclose the
interest which persons other than the licensee have in the licensed business.
The Council may revoke any license issued upon its determination that a change
of ownership of a licensee has actually resulted in the change of control of
the licensed business so as materially to affect the integrity and character of
its management and its operation, but no such action shall be taken until after
a hearing by the Council on notice to the licensee.
         (h)   Additional information. Any additional information the city
deems necessary.
   (C)   Incomplete application. If the City Clerk or the Clerk’s designee
determines that an application is incomplete, they shall return the application
to the applicant with notice of the information needed to make the application
complete.
   (D)   Investigation.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a license under this chapter,
the city shall conduct a background investigation on all new applications and
applications to transfer a license. The applicant shall pay with the
application a nonrefundable investigation fee set annually by resolution of the
City Council. The city shall request that its Chief of Police conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant. The
application in such case shall be made on a form prescribed by the State Bureau
of Criminal Apprehension and with such additional information as the Council
may require. If the Council deems it in the public interest to have an
investigation made on a particular application for renewal of a license, it
shall so determine. If the Council determines that a comprehensive background
and financial investigation of the applicant is necessary, it may conduct the
investigation itself or contract with the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension for
the investigation. If an investigation outside the state is required, the
applicant shall be charged the cost not to exceed $10,000, which shall be paid
by the applicant after deducting any initial investigation fee already paid.
The fee shall be payable by the applicant whether or not the license is
granted. Upon completion of the investigation, the Chief of Police shall make a
written report and recommendation to the City Council of his or her findings,
including a specific report on any violations of federal or state law or
municipal regulations.
      (2)   As an alternative to the investigation process set forth in
division (D)(1), an applicant may pay a nonrefundable investigation fee set
annually by resolution of the City Council and submit the results of a
comparable background investigation completed by an agency of the State of
Minnesota within the 12 months prior to the application. To do so, the
applicant must authorize the city to obtain any and all related information
from said agency so that the Council may review it to determine if any
additional investigation is necessary. If the Council determines that the
agency’s investigation is insufficient for these licensing purposes, the
Council may then require the investigation described in division (D)(1).
   (E)   Public hearing. For initial and renewal applications, upon receipt of
the written report and recommendation by the Police Chief, and within 21 days
thereafter, the City Clerk shall cause to be scheduled a public hearing, with
notice thereof to be published in the official newspaper ten days in advance of
the scheduled hearing, setting forth the day, time and place when the hearing
will be held, the name of the applicant, the premises where the business is to
be conducted, the nature of the business, and such other information as the
Council may direct. At the hearing, opportunity shall be given to any person to
be heard for or against the granting of the license. After such investigation
and hearing, the Council shall grant or refuse the application in its
discretion.
   (F)   Action. The City Council may either approve or deny the application
for a license, or it may delay action for a reasonable period of time as
necessary to complete any investigation of the application or the applicant it
deems necessary. A four-fifths vote of the City Council shall be required for
the granting of any license. If the City Council approves the license, the City
Clerk shall issue the license to the applicant. If the City Council denies the
license, notice of the denial shall be given to the applicant along with notice
of the applicant's right to appeal the City Council's decision pursuant to §
113.06. If a license application is denied, the earliest an applicant may
reapply is 12 months from the date the license is denied.
   (G)   Term. All licenses issued under this section shall be valid from
January 1 until December 31. License fees shall be prorated on a monthly basis
for the portion of any year remaining on an initial application and with any
portion of a licensed month counting as a full month.
   (H)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this section may be
revoked or suspended whenever the City Council deems there is cause to do so.
Cause exists whenever a licensee violates any provision of this chapter or no
longer meets the license eligibility requirements of this section.
   (I)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this section shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person or
business to whom the license was issued. The transfer of any license to another
location, business, or person is prohibited, except as provided herein for
successors of licensees.
   (J)   Display. The licensee shall post and display on the licensed premises
and in plain public view any license issued hereunder.
   (K)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application, provided, however that
the City Council may waive the requirement of a background and financial check
on an application for a renewal of a license if the City Council deems it is in
the public interest to do so. The request for a renewal shall be made at least
30 days but no more than 60 days before the expiration of the current license.
   (L)   Issuance as privilege and not a right. The issuance of a license
issued under this section is a privilege and does not entitle the applicant to
a license, nor does it entitle a license holder to automatic renewal of the
license.
(Ord. 23-301, passed 3-13-2022)
§ 113.04 FEES.
   (A)   Fee required. No license shall be issued under this chapter until the
appropriate license fee shall be paid in full.
   (B)   Fee. The non-refundable fee for a license under this chapter shall be
as established by the City Council in the city’s fee schedule.
   (C)   Payment. Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a
receipt from the City Treasurer for payment in full of the license fee and the
fixed investigation fee. All fees shall be paid into the General Fund. If an
application for a license is rejected, the Treasurer shall refund the amount
paid as a license fee.
(Ord. 23-301, passed 3-13-2022)
§ 113.05 INELIGIBILITY AND BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Ineligibility.
      (1)   Moveable place of business. No license under this chapter shall be
issued to a moveable place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be
eligible to be licensed under this chapter.
      (2)   Exclusive liquor store. No license shall be issued to an exclusive
liquor store as defined in M.S. § 340A.101, Subdivision 10, as the same may be
amended from time to time.
      (3)   Financial delinquencies. No license shall be granted or renewed for
operation on any premises on which real estate taxes, assessments, or other
financial claims of the city or of the state are due, delinquent, or unpaid. If
an action has been commenced pursuant to the provisions of M.S. Chapter 278, as
the same may be amended, questioning the amount or validity of taxes, the
Council may, on application by the licensee, waive strict compliance with this
provision; no waiver may be granted, however, for taxes, or any portion
thereof, which remain unpaid for a period exceeding one year after becoming due
unless such one-year period is extended through no fault of the licensee.
      (4)   On-sale liquor licensees. No license shall be issued to the holder
of an on-sale beer, wine, or liquor license issued by the city.
      (5)   Restaurants. No license shall be issued to any restaurant.
      (6)   Zoning ordinance applies. No license shall be issued for a location
not zoned for the sales proposed by the applicant.
   (B)   Grounds for denial. Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a
license under this chapter include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The applicant, or any owner of an applicant that is not a natural
person, is under the age of 21 years.
      (2)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other rule or regulation from holding a license.
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years for
any: violation of a federal, state, or local law relating to the licensed
products or any controlled substance law; or misdemeanor or felony, including
alcohol-related driving offenses but excluding other traffic offenses.
      (4)   The applicant has had a license to sell licensed products suspended
or revoked during the 12 months preceding the date of application, or the
applicant has or had an interest in another premises authorized to sell
licensed products, whether in the city or in another jurisdiction, that has had
a license to sell licensed products suspended or revoked during the same time
period, provided the applicant had an interest in the premises at the time of
the revocation or suspension, or at the time of the violation that led to the
revocation or suspension.
      (5)   The applicant has had any license issued by the city or any other
jurisdiction suspended or revoked during the 12 months preceding the date of
application, or the applicant has or had an interest in another premises,
whether in the city or in another jurisdiction, that has had a license
suspended or revoked during the same time period, provided the applicant had an
interest in the premises at the time of the revocation or suspension, or at the
time of the violation that led to the revocation or suspension.
      (6)   The applicant is a business that does not have an operating officer
manager, proprietor, or other agent who is eligible pursuant to the provisions
of this section.
      (7)   The applicant is the spouse of a person ineligible for a license
pursuant to this section or who, in the judgement of the City Council, is not
the real party in interest or beneficial owner of the business to be operated,
under the license.
      (8)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application or provides false or misleading information. Any false or
misleading statement on an application, or any willful omission of any
information called for on such application form, shall cause an automatic
refusal of license, or if already issued, shall render any license issued
pursuant thereto void and of no effect to protect the applicant from
prosecution or license denial, revocation, or suspension for violation of this
chapter, or any part thereof.
      (9)   The proposed licensed premises is located within 300 feet of any
school or addiction recovery center. The distances herein referred to shall be
measured in a straight line from the nearest property boundary of the licensed
premises to the nearest property boundary of the school or addiction recovery
center.
      (10)   A license issued under this chapter shall be for a single fixed
location only.
   (C)   Issuance of license by mistake. If a license is mistakenly issued or
renewed to a person, it shall be revoked upon the discovery of the mistake, and
the city shall provide the licensee with a notice of revocation, along with
information on the right to appeal.
(Ord. 23-301, passed 3-13-2022)
§ 113.06 PROCEDURE UPON DENIAL, SUSPENSION, NON-RENEWAL, OR REVOCATION OF
LICENSE.
   A determination by the city to deny, suspend, revoke, or not renew any
license under this chapter may be appealed to the City Council by filing with
the City Clerk a written Notice of Appeal within 15 days of the date on which
notice of the city’s denial, suspension, or revocation is mailed to the
licensee. In that event, the appeal will be heard by the Council at its next
meeting occurring at least 15 days but not more than 45 days after the filing
of the Notice of Appeal. At any appeal of a determination by the city under
this section, the licensee or applicant, or an attorney representing said
party, may appear and make a presentation to the City Council. The licensee or
applicant shall present to the City Council the basis for the determination
being appealed, and the City Council may receive and consider any evidence it
deems relevant to the issue. After the hearing, the Council may uphold,
reverse, or modify the prior decision based upon the provisions of this chapter
and upon the protection of the public health, safety, or general welfare. The
City Council shall issue written findings and determination within 31 days of
the hearing, unless the Council extends that time for good cause. A decision of
the City Council made following an appeal as set forth herein may be appealed
by Writ of Certiorari to the Court of Appeals of the State of Minnesota
pursuant to its Rules of Civil Appellate Procedure and Minnesota Statutes.
(Ord. 23-301, passed 3-13-2022)
§ 113.07 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   In general. No person shall sell, donate, give away, or otherwise
dispense or distribute any licensed product, or offer to do so:
      (1)   By means of any type of vending machine;
      (2)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need
to make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premises in
order to receive the edible cannabinoid products and whereby there is not a
physical exchange between the licensee, or the licensee's employee, and the
customer;
      (3)   By any other means, to any other person, on in any other manner or
form prohibited by state or other local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation;
      (4)   That is not packaged in strict compliance with state laws, rule,
and regulations;
      (5)   From any location other than a fixed place of business that is a
licensed premise. Delivery of licensed products from a licensee to a purchaser
who is located off the licensed premises is strictly prohibited;
      (6)   By any form of internet/online transaction; and
      (7)   By acceptance or redemption of any coupon, price promotion, or
other instrument or mechanism, whether in paper, digital, electronic, mobile,
or any other form, that provides any THC products to a consumer at no cost or
at a price that is less than the non-discounted, standard price listed by a
retailer on the item or on any related shelving, posting, advertising, or
display at the location where the item is sold or offered for sale, including
all applicable taxes.
   (B)   Controlled substances. No person shall sell, offer to sell, or
otherwise provide any licensed products containing opium, morphine, jimson
weed, bella donna, strychnos, cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious,
hallucinogenic, toxic, or controlled substances not authorized by state or
federal law.
   (C)   Legal age.
      (1)   Age to sell. No person under the age of 18 shall sell any licensed
product to any person.
      (2)   Age to purchase. No person, regardless of license status, shall
sell any licensed product to any person under the age of 21.
      (3)   Age verification. Licensees, including their employees and
representatives, shall verify by means of government issued photographic
identification that the purchaser is at least 21 years of age.
      (4)   Signage. All licensees shall post and display in plain view of the
general public on the licensed premise, a sign supplied by the city, which
shall state that it is illegal to sell licensed products to anyone under the
age of 21 years and that the possession and use of such items by anyone under
the age of 21 is also illegal under state, federal, and/or local law. Said
signs shall be issued to the licensee along with their license.
   (D)   Samples prohibited. No person shall distribute samples of any licensed
product free of charge or at a nominal cost. Sampling is prohibited on any
licensed premises.
   (E)   Other prohibitions. No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise
provide, dispense, or distribute any licensed products by any means, to any
other person, or in any other manner or form prohibited by federal, state, or
other local law, ordinance provision, or other regulation. Possession on the
premises by the licensee of any licensed product in a package indicating that
the contents do not comply with the requirements of state laws, rules, or
regulations shall be prima facie evidence that the contents of the package
violate this section. It shall be the licensee’s burden to prove, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that the contents do comply.
   (F)   Sales to obviously intoxicated or impaired persons. No person shall
sell, give, furnish, dispense, distribute, or in any way procure for another
person any licensed products for use by an obviously intoxicated person or a
person who is obviously impaired by or under the influence of licensed products
or any controlled or intoxicating substance.
   (G)   On-site consumption prohibited. No licensed product may be sold,
given, distributed, dispensed, or otherwise furnished for consumption or use on
any premises that holds a license issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 23-301, passed 3-13-2022)
§ 113.08 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   (A)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person under the age of 21 to have any THC product in his or her possession.
This section shall not apply to persons under the age of 21 who are lawfully
involved in a compliance check or to employees of a licensee who are at least
18 years of age and are acting in the course and scope of their employment for
a licensee.
   (B)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
under the age of 21 to consume or otherwise use any licensed product.
   (C)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person under 21 years of age to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise
obtain any licensed product, and it shall be a violation of this chapter for
any person to purchase or otherwise obtain such items on behalf of a person
under 21 years of age. It shall further be a violation for any person to coerce
or attempt to coerce a person under 21 years of age to illegally purchase or
otherwise obtain or use any licensed product. This section shall not apply to
persons under 21 years of age who are lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (D)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any person under 21 years of age to attempt to disguise his or her true age
by the use of any form of false identification, including but not limited to an
identification card of another real or fictional person and one on which the
age of the person has been modified or tampered with to represent an age older
than the actual age of the person.
   (E)   Tampering with package. No licensee shall directly or through any
other person alter or tamper with the contents of any original package so as to
change its composition or THC content while in the original package. Possession
on the premises by the licensee of any licensed product in a package differing
in composition or THC content in the product when received from the
manufacturer or wholesaler from whom it was purchased, shall be prima facie
evidence that the contents of the original package has been changed or tampered
with. It shall be the licensee’s burden to prove, by the preponderance of the
evidence, that the contents have not been tampered with.
   (F)   Restrictions on consumption and use. No person shall consume or
possess licensed products on a public street, highway, sidewalk, park, public
or private school property, or in any public facility, on any form of public
transportation or transit, at any other public place, or at any location where
medical cannabis possession and use are prohibited by M.S. § 152.23, as the
same may be amended from time to time. Provided, however, that nothing herein
shall prohibit any person from possessing a licensed product while using a
public street, highway, or sidewalk to travel directly from the point of a
lawful purchase to a place of lawful use.
   (G)   Taxicabs. No person shall consume licensed products while riding in
any taxicab licensed by the city. No person who is licensed by the city to
operate a taxicab shall operate a taxicab while possessing, using, or being
under the influence of any licensed product.
   (H)   Other city-issued licenses. No person shall possess, use, distribute,
or be under the influence of any licensed product while performing any task for
which any license has been issued by the city. A violation of this section
shall be grounds for suspension, revocation, or non-renewal of any such
license.
(Ord. 23-301, passed 3-13-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Cannabis in public places, see §
130.04
§ 113.09 STORAGE.
   Unless the licensee restricts access to the entire licensed premises to
persons age 21 or older, all licensed products shall either be stored behind a
counter or other area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other
storage unit not left open and accessible to the general public.
(Ord. 23-301, passed 3-13-2022)
§ 113.10 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees are responsible for the actions of their employees, agents,
and other representatives in regard to the sale, offer to sell, and furnishing
of licensed products on the licensed premises. The sale, offer to sell, or
furnishing of any licensed product by an employee or other representative of a
licensee shall be considered an act of both the employee or representative and
the licensee. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the
city from also subjecting a licensee’s employee, agent, or other representative
to any civil penalties or criminal prosecution that the city deems to be
appropriate under this chapter, state or federal law, or other applicable law
or regulation.
(Ord. 23-301, passed 3-13-2022)
§ 113.11 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All premises licensed under this chapter shall be open to inspection
by the city during regular business hours. The city shall conduct compliance
checks at its discretion.
   (B)   No person used in compliance checks shall attempt to use a false
identification misrepresenting their age. All persons lawfully engaged in a
compliance check shall answer all questions about their age asked by the
licensee or their employee, and produce any identification, if any exists, for
which they are asked. Persons used for the purpose of compliance checks shall
be supervised by law enforcement or other designated personnel. Nothing in this
section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by state or federal laws
for educational, research, or training purposes, or required for the
enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
   (C)   Additionally, from time to time, the city will conduct inspections to
determine compliance with any or all other aspects of this chapter.
(Ord. 23-301, passed 3-13-2022)
§ 113.12 MEDICAL CANNABIS MANUFACTURE, DISPENSING, AND USE.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit, prevent, impede, or otherwise
change any person’s right to lawfully manufacture, obtain, dispense,
distribute, possess, prescribe, or use medical cannabis in compliance with
state law. Provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed to grant
or expand those rights.
(Ord. 23-301, passed 3-13-2022)
§ 113.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Administrative civil penalties. If a licensee or an employee or
representative of a licensee is found to have violated this chapter, the
licensee shall be charged an administrative penalty as follows:
      (1)   First violation. The city shall impose a civil fine of $500 and
suspend the license for not less than two consecutive business days.
      (2)   Second violation within 36 months. The Council shall impose a civil
fine of $1,000 and suspend the license for not less than five consecutive
business days.
      (3)   Third violation within 36 months. The Council shall impose a civil
fine of $2,000 and suspend the license for not less than ten consecutive days.
      (4)   Fourth violation within 36 months. The Council shall revoke the
license for not less than one year.
   (B)   Administrative penalty procedures. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this section, if one of the foregoing penalties is imposed by the
city, no penalty shall take effect until the licensee or person has been served
with notice (served personally or by mail delivered to the business address of
the licensee) of the alleged violation and of the opportunity for a hearing
before the Council pursuant to §
113.06, and such notice must be in writing and must provide that a right to a
hearing before the Council must be requested within 15 business days of mailing
or personal service of the notice or such hearing right shall terminate.
   (C)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from seeking prosecution as a
misdemeanor for any alleged violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Continuing violations. Each day that a violation of this chapter
continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 23-301, passed 3-13-2022)
CHAPTER 114: CANNABIS BUSINESS REGISTRATION
Section
   
114.01   Administration
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Registration of cannabis businesses
   
114.04   Requirements for cannabis businesses
   
114.05   Temporary cannabis events
   
114.06   Lower-potency hemp edibles
   
114.07   City of Lake Park government as a cannabis retailer
   
114.08   Use in public places
§ 114.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The City of Lake Park makes the following legislative findings:
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of M.S.
Chapter 342, which authorizes the City of Lake Park to protect the public
health, safety, welfare of the City of Lake Park residents by regulating
cannabis businesses within the legal boundaries of the City of Lake Park.
      (2)   The City of Lake Park finds and concludes that the proposed
provisions are appropriate and lawful land use regulations for the City of Lake
Park, that the proposed amendments will promote the community's interest in
reasonable stability in zoning for now and in the future, and that the proposed
provisions are in the public interest and for the public good.
   (B)   Authority and jurisdiction.
      (1)   The City of Lake Park has the authority to adopt this ordinance
pursuant to:
         (a)   M.S. § 342.13(c), regarding the authority of a local unit of
government to adopt reasonable restrictions upon the time, place, andmanner of
the operation of a cannabis business, provided that such restrictions do not
prohibit the establishment or operation of cannabis businesses.
         (b)   M.S. § 342.22, regarding the local registration and enforcement
requirements of state-licensed cannabis retail businesses and lower-potency
hemp edible retail businesses.
         (c)   M.S. § 152.0263, Subd. 5, regarding the use of cannabis in
public places.
         (d)   M.S. § 462.357, regarding the authority of a local authority to
adopt zoning ordinances.
      (2)   This chapter shall be applicable within the legal boundaries of the
City of Lake Park.
   (C)   The City Clerk for the City of Lake Park is responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter. Any violation of the provisions
of this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements constitutes a
misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law. Violations of this chapter can
occur regardless of whether or not a permit is required for a regulated
activity listed in this chapter.
(Ord. 25-401, passed 5-12-2025)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise noted in this section, words and phrases contained in M.S.
§ 342.01 and the rules promulgated pursuant to any of these acts, shall have
the same meanings in this chapter.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis plants
within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to mature
plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label immature
plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis businesses,
transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the same
premises, and perform other actions approved by the office.
   CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES. A retail location and the retail location(s) of
mezzobusinesses with a retail operations endorsement, microbusinesses with a
retail operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating a
retail location, and lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
   CANNABIS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or
association, foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and
not for the purpose of resale in any form.
   DAYCARE. A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human Services
to provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child's own home for
gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a 24-hour day.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. As defined in M.S. § 342.0.
   OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management,
referred to as "OCM" or the "Office" in this chapter.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, accommodation, refreshment,
entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whether
licensed or not, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages or
accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the
public.
   PRELIMINARY LICENSE APPROVAL. OCM pre-approval for a cannabis business
license for applicants who qualify under M.S. § 342.17.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk; any
enclosed, indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited
to, restaurants; bars; any other food or liquor establishment; hospitals;
nursing homes; auditoriums; arenas; gyms; meeting rooms; common areas of rental
apartment buildings, and other places of public accommodation.
   RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. As defined in M.S. § 245.462.
   RETAIL REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by the City of Lake
Park to a state-licensed cannabis retail business.
   SCHOOL. A public school as defined under M.S. § 120A.05 or a nonpublic
school that must meet the reporting requirements under M.S. § 120A.24.
   STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota's Office
of Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
(Ord. 25-401, passed 5-12-2025)
§ 114.03 REGISTRATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Consent to registering of cannabis businesses.
      (1)   No individual or entity may operate a state-licensed cannabis
retail business within the City of Lake Park without first registering with the
City of Lake Park.
      (2)   Any state-licensed cannabis retail business that sells to a
customer, consumer or patient without valid retail registration shall incur a
civil penalty of $2,000 for each violation.
   (B)   Compliance checks prior to retail registration.
      (1)   Prior to issuance of a cannabis retail business registration, the
City of Lake Park shall conduct a preliminary compliance check to ensure
compliance with local ordinances.
      (2)   Pursuant to M.S. Ch. 342, within 30 days of receiving a copy of a
state license application from OCM, the City of Lake Park shall certify on a
form provided by OCM whether a proposed cannabis retail business complies with
local zoning ordinances.
   (C)   Registration and application procedure.
      (1)   Fees.
         (a)   A registration fee, as established in the City of Lake Park fee
schedule, shall be charged to applicants depending on the type of retail
business license applied for.
         (b)   An initial retail registration fee shall not exceed $500 or half
the amount of an initial state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, whichever is
less. The initial registration fee shall include the initial retail
registration fee and the first annual renewal fee.
         (c)   Any renewal retail registration fee imposed by the City of Lake
Park shall be charged at the time of the second renewal and each subsequent
renewal thereafter.
         (d)   A renewal retail registration fee shall not exceed $1,000 or
half the amount of a renewal state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, whichever
is less.
         (e)   A medical combination business operating an adult-use retail
location may only be charged a single registration fee, not to exceed the
lesser of a single retail registration fee, defined under this section, of the
adult-use retail business.
      (2)   Registration submittal.
         (a)   The City of Lake Park shall issue a retail registration to a
state-licensed cannabis retail business that adheres to the requirements of
M.S. § 342.22.
         (b)   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out a
registration form, as provided by the City of Lake Park. Said form shall
include, but is not limited to:
            (i)   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
            (ii)   Address, email address, and telephone number of the
applicant;
            (iii)   The address and parcel ID for the property which the retail
registration is sought; and
            (iv)   Certification that the applicant complies with the
requirements of local ordinances established pursuant to M.S. § 342.13.
         (c)   The applicant shall include with the form:
            (i)   The registration fee as required in the fee schedule;
            (ii)   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM
license preapproval; and
            (iii)   A map showing that the retail store is 1,000 feet or more
from any school or place of worship; 500 feet or more from any daycare; 500
feet or more from any public park, playground, athletic field; 500 feet or more
from any residential treatment facility and 500 feet or more from any other
cannabis retail business.
         (d)   Once an application is considered complete, the City Clerk shall
inform the applicant as such, process the application, and forward the
application to the City Council for approval or denial.
         (e)   The registration fee shall be non-refundable.
      (3)   Application approval.
         (a)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business registration shall not
be approved if the cannabis retail business would exceed the maximum number of
registered cannabis retail businesses permitted under § 4-0403 Subd. 6.
         (b)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business registration shall not
be approved or renewed if the applicant is unable to meet the requirements of
this section.
         (c)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business registration that
meets the requirements of this section shall be approved.
      (4)   Annual compliance checks. Any failures under this section must be
reported to the Office of Cannabis Management.
         (a)   A local unit of government shall conduct compliance checks of
every cannabis business and hemp business with a retail registration issued by
the local unit of government. The checks shall assess compliance with age
verification requirements and with any applicable local ordinance.
         (b)   The local unit of government must conduct unannounced age
verification compliance checks at least once each calendar year. Age
verification compliance checks must involve persons at least 17 years of age
but under the age of 21 who, with the prior written consent of a parent or
guardian if the person is under the age of 18, attempt to purchase adult-use
cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or
hemp-derived consumer products under the direct supervision of a law
enforcement officer or an employee of the local unit of government.
      (5)   Location change. A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall be
required to submit a new application for registration under § 4-0403 Subd. 3B
if it seeks to move to a new location that is within the legal boundaries of
the City of Lake Park.
   (D)   Renewal of registration. The City of Lake Park shall renew an annual
registration of a state-licensed cannabis retail business at the same time OCM
renews the cannabis retail business' license. A state-licensed cannabis retail
business shall apply to renew registration on a form established by the City of
Lake Park. A cannabis retail registration issued under this section shall not
be transferred.
      (1)   Renewal fees. The City of Lake Park may charge a renewal fee for
the registration starting at the second renewal, as established in the City of
Lake Park fee schedule.
      (2)   Renewal application. The application for renewal of a retail
registration shall include, but is not limited to the items required under
Section 4-0403 Subd. 3B.
   (E)   Suspension of registration.
      (1)   When suspension is warranted. The City of Lake Park may suspend a
cannabis retail business's registration if it violates this chapter of the City
of Lake Park or poses an immediate threat to the health or safety of the
public. The City of Lake Park shall immediately notify the cannabis retail
business in writing the grounds for the suspension.
      (2)   Notification to OCM. The City of Lake Park shall immediately notify
the OCM in writing the grounds for the suspension. OCM will provide City of
Lake Park and cannabis business retailer a response to the complaint within
seven calendar days and perform any necessary inspections within 30 calendar
days.
      (3)   Length of suspension. The suspension of a cannabis retail business
registration may be for up to 30 calendar days, unless OCM suspends the license
for a longer period. The business may not make sales to customers if their
registration is suspended. The City of Lake Park may reinstate a registration
if it determines that the violations have been resolved. The City of Lake Park
shall reinstate a registration if OCM determines that the violation(s) have
been resolved.
      (4)   Civil penalties. Subject to M.S. § 342.22, subd. 5(e) the City of
Lake Park may impose a civil penalty, as specified in the City of Lake Park fee
schedule, for registration violations, not to exceed $2,000. Payment of civil
penalties may be enforced by civil action.
   (F)   Limiting of registrations. The City of Lake Park may limit the number
of cannabis retail businesses within City of Lake Park by ordinance.
(Ord. 25-401, passed 5-12-2025)
§ 114.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Minimum buffer requirements.
      (1)   The City of Lake Park shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis
business within 1,000 feet of a school.
      (2)   The City of Lake Park shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis
business within 1,000 feet of a place of worship.
      (3)   The City of Lake Park shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis
business within 500 feet of a day care.
      (4)   The City of Lake Park shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis
business within 500 feet of a residential treatment facility.
      (5)   The City of Lake Park shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis
business within 500 feet of an attraction within a public park that is
regularly used by minors, including a playground or athletic field.
      (6)   The City of Lake Park shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis
retail business within 500 feet of another cannabis retail business.
      (7)   Nothing in § 4-0404, Subd. 1 shall prohibit an active cannabis
business or a cannabis business seeking renewal of its registration from
continuing operation at the same site if a (school/daycare/residential
treatment facility/ attraction within a public park that is regularly used by
minors) moves within the minimum buffer zone after the business is established.
      (8)   Lower potency hemp edible retailers are exempt from these buffer
requirements.
   (B)   Zoning and land use.
      (1)   Cultivation.
         (a)   Indoor cultivation of cannabis by cannabis businesses licensed
or endorsed for cultivation is a conditional use, by a conditional use permit,
and only in the following zoning districts:
            (i)   "I-1" Industrial District (Indoor);
            (ii)   "C-2" Highway Commercial District (Indoor).
         (b)   Outdoor cultivation of cannabis by cannabis businesses licensed
or endorsed for cultivation is a conditional use, by a conditional use permit,
and only in the following zoning district:
            (i)   "I-1" Industrial District (Outdoor).
      (2)   Cannabis manufacturer. Manufacture of cannabis products by cannabis
businesses licensed or endorsed for cannabis manufacturer is a conditional use,
by a conditional use permit, and only in the following zoning districts:
         (a)   "I-1" Industrial District;
         (b)   "C-2" Highway Commercial District.
      (3)   Hemp manufacturer.
         (a)   Manufacture of low-potency hemp edible products by businesses
licensed or endorsed for low-potency hemp edible manufacturer is a permitted
use only in the following zoning district:
            (i)   "I-1" Industrial District.
         (b)   Manufacture of low-potency hemp edible products by businesses
licensed or endorsed for low-potency hemp edible manufacturer is a conditional
use, by a conditional use permit, and only in the following zoning district:
            (i)   "C-2" Highway Commercial District.
      (4)   Wholesale. Wholesale of products authorized by M.S. § 342.34 by
cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for wholesale is a conditional use, by
a conditional use permit, and only in the following zoning districts:
         (a)   "I-1" Industrial District;
         (b)   "C-1" General Commercial District.
      (5)   Cannabis retail. Retail sale of cannabis flower or cannabis
products and other products authorized by M.S. § 342.27 by cannabis businesses
licensed or endorsed for cannabis retail is a conditional use, by a conditional
use permit, and only in the following zoning districts:
         (a)   "I-1" Light Industrial District;
         (b)   "C-1" General Commercial District;
         (c)   "C-2" Highway Commercial District.
   (C)   Hours of operation. Cannabis businesses are limited to retail sale of
cannabis, cannabis flower, and cannabis products between the hours of 10:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (D)   Advertising. Cannabis businesses are permitted to erect signs on the
exterior of the building or on the property of the business in accordance with
the city's sign regulations in Chapter 152 of the Lake Park City Code.
(Ord. 25-401, passed 5-12-2025)
§ 114.05 TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS.
   (A)   License or permit required for temporary cannabis events. A cannabis
event organizer license entitles the license holder to organize a temporary
cannabis event lasting no more than four days. A license or permit is required
to be issued and approved by the City of Lake Park prior to holding a temporary
cannabis event.
   (B)   Registration and application procedure.
      (1)   Fees. A registration fee, as established in the City of Lake Park
fee schedule, shall be charged to applicants for temporary cannabis events.
      (2)   Application submittal and review. The City of Lake Park shall
require an application for temporary cannabis events.
         (a)   An applicant for a temporary cannabis event shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the City of Lake Park. Said form shall
include, but is not limited to:
            (i)   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
            (ii)   Address, email address, and telephone number of the
applicant;
            (iii)   Address of the event location;
            (iv)   Description of the event including dates and hours.
         (b)   The applicant shall include with the form:
            (i)   The application fee as required by division (B)(1);
            (ii)   A copy of the OCM cannabis event license application,
submitted pursuant to M.S. § 342.39 subd. 2.
         (c)   The application shall be submitted to the City Clerk, or other
designee for review. If the designee determines that a submitted application is
incomplete, they shall return the application to the applicant with the notice
of deficiencies.
         (d)   Once an application is considered complete, the City Clerk shall
inform the applicant as such, process the application fees, and forward the
application to the City Council for approval or denial.
         (e)   The application fee is non-refundable.
      (3)   Application approval. The application for a license for a temporary
cannabis event shall meet the following standards:
         (a)   No on-site consumption of cannabis products is allowed;
         (b)   No more than 25 people can attend the temporary cannabis event
at the same time;
         (c)   A temporary cannabis event shall only be held indoors at a
licensed cannabis retail business;
         (d)   A temporary cannabis event cannot last more than four days;
         (e)   A temporary cannabis event can only be held between the hours of
10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
      (4)   A request for a temporary cannabis event that meets the
requirements of this section shall be approved.
      (5)   A request for a temporary cannabis event that does not meet the
requirements of this section shall be denied. The City of Lake Park shall
notify the applicant of the standards not met and basis for denial.
(Ord. 25-401, passed 5-12-2025)
§ 114.06 LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES.
   (A)   Sale of low-potency hemp edibles. The sale of low-potency hemp edibles
is permitted by registered lower potency hemp edible retailers.
   (B)   Zoning districts. Low-potency edibles business is a conditional use,
by a conditional use permit, and only in the following zoning districts:
      (1)   "I-1" Light Industrial District;
      (2)   "C-1" General Commercial District.
   (C)   Sales within a municipal liquor store. The sale of low-potency edibles
is permitted in a municipal liquor store.
(Ord. 25-401, passed 5-12-2025)
§ 114.07 CITY OF LAKE PARK GOVERNMENT AS A CANNABIS RETAILER.
   (A)   The City of Lake Park may establish, own, and operate one municipal
cannabis retail business, subject to the restrictions in this chapter.
   (B)   The municipal cannabis retail store shall not be included in any
limitation of the number of registered cannabis retail businesses under Section
4-0403 Subd. 6.
   (C)   The City of Lake Park shall be subject to all same retail license
requirements and procedures applicable to all other applicants.
(Ord. 25-401, passed 5-12-2025)
§ 114.08 USE IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   As detailed in Title XIII, § 130.04 of the Lake Park City code, no person
shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or
hemp-derived consumer products in public places as defined therein, unless the
premises is an establishment or an event licensed to permit on-site consumption
of adult-use cannabis products.
(Ord. 25-401, passed 5-12-2025)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Fireworks
   
130.02   Curfew for minors
   
130.03   Discharge of firearms or bow and arrow without permit
   
130.04   Use of cannabis in public
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency, see §
92.03
§ 130.01 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Adoption of state law. The provisions of M.S. §§ 624.20 through
624.25, inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time, are adopted by
reference.
   (B)   License required. No person, without securing a permit from the city,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacture, store, or sell consumer fireworks; or
      (2)   Make a public display of fireworks.
   (C)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, CONSUMER FIREWORKS are
defined as: wire or wood sparklers of not more than 100 grams of mixture per
item, other sparkling items which are nonexplosive and nonaerial and contain 75
grams or less of chemical mixture per tube, or a total of 500 grams or less for
multiple tubes, snakes and glow worms, smoke devices, or trick noisemakers
which include paper streamers, party poppers, string poppers, snappers, and
drop pops, each consisting of not more than .25 grains of explosive mixture.
   (D)   Permit application. The application for the permit for the
manufacturing, storage, and sale of consumer fireworks shall be made to the
Fire Chief or Emergency Management Director. A criminal records check and
determination by the Fire Chief or Emergency Management Director that the
location where consumer fireworks are to be stored or sold is not hazardous to
property or endangers any person and that the persons in charge of selling or
storing the consumer fireworks are competent and trained to handle such
consumer fireworks must be made prior to processing the application. The
application for permit shall be accompanied by a letter from the owner of the
property on which the sale is to take place. Such letter shall grant permission
to the applicant for the use of the property. The application shall include a
floor plan designating the area for manufacturing, storage, or display along
with a list documenting the name, weight, and quantity of consumer fireworks
within the building and be accompanied by the material safety data sheets.
Applications must be made a minimum of ten days prior to operating. Any permit
granted hereunder shall be nontransferable.
   (E)   License period and license fee. Licenses shall be issued for a
calendar year. Permit fees shall not be prorated. The fee for the permit shall
be that as provided in the current city fee schedule.
   (F)   Revocation of license. Following written notice and an opportunity for
a hearing, the City Council may revoke a license for violation of this chapter
or state law concerning the sale, use, or possession of fireworks. If a license
is revoked, neither the applicant nor the licensed premises may obtain a
license for 12 months.
   (G)   Terms and conditions for issuance of permit. A permit for
manufacturing, storage, or retail sale of consumer fireworks shall be issued
only upon the following terms and conditions:
      (1)   Neither the applicant nor the responsible party for the permit
shall have been convicted of a felony, or a fire/fireworks-related misdemeanor
within three years of the date of filing of the application;
      (2)   Transient sales of consumer fireworks are prohibited. No
manufacturing, sales, or storage for commercial use shall occur on
residentially zoned property or properties used for educational purposes or
assemblies or property used for the dispensing of motor fuels;
      (3)   Consumer firework manufacturing, storage, or sales areas shall
provide approved “no smoking” signs in red letters not less than two inches in
height on white background. All signs shall be maintained in legible condition;
      (4)   Smoking and the discharge of consumer fireworks shall be prohibited
within 100 feet of any building in which fireworks are manufactured, stored, or
sold;
      (5)   Each permit holder shall have not less than two water-type or
equivalent extinguishers of not less than two and one-half gallon capacity;
      (6)   The premises must be in compliance with the State Building Code and
State Fire Code. There shall be at least two exits from all buildings from
which fireworks are manufactured, stored, or sold;
      (7)   In buildings without an approved automatic sprinkler system, retail
consumer fireworks indoor sales displays shall be limited to 50 pounds net
pyrotechnic composition or 200 pounds gross weight, if the pyrotechnic
composition weight is not known;
      (8)   Buildings protected throughout by an approved automatic sprinkler
system shall be limited to 100 pounds net or 400 pounds gross weight if the
pyrotechnic composition weight is not known;
      (9)   All facilities who obtain a permit shall post in a conspicuous
location a list of all consumer fireworks displayed and stored on the property.
The list shall document the name, weight, and quantity of the fireworks and be
accompanied by the material safety data sheets. Upon request, samples of the
fireworks shall be made available to the Fire Chief for testing;
      (10)   Manufacturing, warehouse buildings, or retail in excess of the
quantities listed in divisions (G)(7) and (G)(8) above for retail consumer
fireworks shall be classified as an (H) occupancy with explosives;
      (11)   Photo identification must be checked with each sale. Purchasers
must be 18 years of age or older;
      (12)   The sale of consumer fireworks must be allowed by the zoning
ordinance and must comply with all zoning ordinance requirements including
signs;
      (13)   The premises are subject to inspection by city employees including
police officers, fire and building officials during normal business hours; and
      (14)   Safety information approved by the Fire Chief must be distributed
with each sale of consumer fireworks.
   (H)   Discharge rules and regulations.
      (1)   It is unlawful to use, fire, or discharge consumer fireworks along
the route of and during any parade or at any place of public assembly or in any
business zoning district.
      (2)   It is unlawful at any time to throw or toss consumer fireworks at
any person, animal, vehicle, or other thing or object.
      (3)   Smoking and the discharge of consumer fireworks shall be prohibited
within 100 feet of any building or stand in which fireworks are sold at retail
or stored after hours.
      (4)   Consumer fireworks may only be discharged in an area with a water
source connected to a hose or other acceptable means of putting out a fire.
      (5)   The Fire Chief may ban fireworks displays and the use of consumer
fireworks if a drought is evident.
      (6)   Juveniles may not possess consumer fireworks unless under the
direct supervision of a responsible adult.
   (I)   Public display. The public display of fireworks shall require a permit
issued by the Clerk-Treasurer upon recommendation from the Chief of the Fire
Department in accordance with M.S. § 624.22, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 8-4, passed 8-9-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS. 10:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
Friday, and Saturday until 6:00 a.m. of the following day. During June 1 to
August 31 (summer time), the times are 11:30 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday until 5:00 am. of the following day.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 16.
      OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
      PARENT.
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, apartment houses, office buildings, transport
facilities, and shops.
      REMAIN.
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
   (B)   Restrictions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to remain in any public place or
on the premises of a any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian of a minor to
knowingly permit, or by insufficient control allow, the minor to remain in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
curfew hours. The term KNOWINGLY includes knowledge which a parent or guardian
should reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in
the legal custody of that parent or guardian.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, or any employee of an
establishment to knowingly allow a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the operation of
the curfew. That the minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without detour or stop, an official school, religious,
or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for
the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B) above that the
owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
division (C) above is present.
   (E)   Review of ordinance. Within six months after the initial enforcement
of this section, the Chief of Police shall review this section and report and
make recommendations to the City Council concerning the effectiveness of and
the continuing need for this section. The Chief of Police’s report shall
specifically include the following information:
      (1)   The practicality of enforcing this section and any problems with
enforcement identified by the Police Department;
      (2)   The impact of the section on crime statistics;
      (3)   The number of persons successfully prosecuted for a violation of
the section; and
      (4)   The city’s net cost of enforcing the section.
   (F)   The terms and provisions of this section are severable. If any
provision of this section is, for any reason, held to be invalid, such decision
shall not effect the validity of the remaining portions of this section. It is
intended that the curfew ordinance be held inapplicable in such cases, if any,
where its application would be unconstitutional.
(Ord. 7-2, passed 7-10-2000; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014; Res. 15-107, passed
1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS OR BOW AND ARROW WITHOUT PERMIT.
   (A)   Firearms.
      (1)   Permit required. No person shall fire, discharge, or explode any
gun, pistol, BB gun, air rifle, or other weapon in any part of the city without
a permit from the City Council. Such permit shall be in writing and shall be
issued by the Council in its discretion upon application to it.
      (2)   Exception. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit any firing
of a gun, pistol, BB gun, air rifle, or other weapon when done in the lawful
defense of person, property, or family or in the necessary defense or
enforcement of the laws.
   (B)   Bow and arrow. No person shall fire or discharge any bow and arrow in
any part of the city without a permit from the City Council. Such permit shall
be in writing and shall be issued by the Council in its discretion upon
application to it.
(Ord. 8-2, passed 2-14-1972) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 USE OF CANNABIS IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   It is unlawful to use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles and hemp-derived consumer products, as defined in M.S. §
342.01, in public places anywhere in the city.
   (B)   As used in this section, public places include all areas contained
within the city boundaries, except the following:
      (1)   Private residences, including the curtilage and yard; and
      (2)   Private property not generally accessible by the public, unless a
person is explicitly prohibited from consuming cannabis flower, cannabis
products, lower-potency hemp edibles or hemp-derived consumer products on the
property by the owner of the property; and
      (3)   The premises of an establishment or event licensed to permit on-
site consumption of cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles or hemp-derived consumer products.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2023)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of §
130.01 shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person found guilty of violating any
of the provisions of §
130.01 shall be subject to punishment of a misdemeanor in accordance with the
laws of the State of Minnesota pertaining to the punishment allowed for
violation of misdemeanors. Violation of §
130.01 may also be punishable as provided by the city administrative penalties
procedure.
   (C)   (1)   A person who violates a provision of §
130.02 is guilty of a separate offense for each day or part of a day during
which the violation is committed, continued, or permitted.
      (2)   Violations of §
130.02 shall constitute a petty misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a
sentence of not more than the maximum fine imposed under the laws of the State
of Minnesota for petty misdemeanor violations.
      (3)   A violation of §
130.02 may be punishable by the city administrative penalties procedures as set
forth in §
10.98.
   (D)   Violation of §
130.03 shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a sentence of
not more than the maximum fine and period of incarceration imposed under the
laws of the State of Minnesota for misdemeanor violations.
   (E)   Violation of §
130.04 is a petty misdemeanor as defined by Minnesota law. This section may be
enforced by the City of Lake Park Administrative Citations and Civil Penalties,
City Code §
130.99.
(Ord. 8-2, passed 2-14-1972; Ord. 8-4, passed 8-9-2010; Res. 14-209, passed 2-
24-2014; Ord. passed 3-13-2023; Ord. 25-401, passed 5-12-2025)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   BIOFUEL BURNERS
      
152.   SIGNS
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Moving of houses, buildings, and other structures
   
150.02   Securing demolition sites; removal of debris and waste materials
   
150.03   Relating to building type
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 MOVING OF HOUSES, BUILDINGS, AND OTHER STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall move, haul, or transport, any house,
building, derrick, or other structure of the height of 16 feet or more, of a
width of 15 feet or more, or which cannot be moved at a speed of four miles per
hour or more, upon, across, or over any street or alley without first obtaining
a permit therefor as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Manner of obtaining permit. All application for permits to move
houses, buildings, derricks, or other structures mentioned in division (A)
above shall be made in writing to the Building Official specifying the date and
hour said move is to commence, and the street route over which the building or
structure shall be moved. If it shall be necessary to cut down, move, raise, or
in any other way interfere with any wires or poles, the application shall state
the name of the owner of said wires or poles, the time and place when and where
removal of said cutting, raising, or other interference with said wires will be
necessary. A permit to move shall in all cases issue upon an appropriate
resolution of the City Council; provided, however, that in all cases involving
the moving of newly constructed houses or buildings, the Building Inspector
shall be authorized to issue the necessary permit when the City Council
theretofore by resolution shall have approved the manufacturer, contractor, or
mover thereof.
   (C)   Fee for permit. Before a permit to move any house, building, derrick,
or other structure is granted under the provisions hereof, the applicant for
said permit shall pay to the Building Official a fee.
   (D)   Surety bond required. Every person at the time of making application
for permit as provided in division (B) above, shall execute in favor of the
city a good and sufficient surety bond to be approved by the Building Official,
indemnifying the city against any loss by reason of damage to streets or other
city property, and saving the city harmless from any damage to private property
or damage suit resulting from the failure of such person to comply with the
provisions hereof, or from their negligence.
   (E)   Notice to owners of wires and poles. The Building Official shall, upon
filing of such application, give not less than five days written notice to the
persons owning or operating such wires and poles or to their agents, of the
time when, and the place where the removal of said poles, or the cutting,
raising, or otherwise interfering with said wires shall be necessary.
   (F)   Duty of owners of wires and poles. Every person owning or operating
said poles or wires after service of notice, as required in division (E) above,
shall furnish competent workpersons or linepersons to remove such poles, or
raise or cut wires, as may be necessary to facilitate the moving of such house,
building, derrick, or structure. The necessary expense which is incurred
thereby shall be paid by the holder of the moving permit.
   (G)   Duty of house movers. No person engaged in moving any house, building,
derrick, or other structure shall raise, cut, or in any way interfere with any
such poles or wires unless the persons or authorities owning or having control
of the same shall neglect or refuse to do so after having been notified as
required in division (E) above, thereupon, the person or persons engaged in
such moving may employ competent and experienced workpersons or linepersons to
perform the necessary work, which shall be done in a careful and workmanlike
manner, and the poles and wires shall be promptly replaced, and the damage
thereto promptly repaired.
   (H)   Duty of the Building Official. The Building Official shall from time
to time inspect the progress of the moving of any building, house, or other
structure and see that said house, building, or other structure is being moved
in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (I)   Red lanterns to be displayed. Any person moving any of the structures
mentioned in division (A) above, upon, across, or over any street, alley, or
other public place, shall display red lanterns thereon in such manner as to
show the extreme height and width thereof from 30 minutes after sunset to 30
minutes before sunrise.
(Ord. 5-2, passed 2-14-1972) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 SECURING DEMOLITION SITES; REMOVAL OF DEBRIS AND WASTE MATERIALS.
   (A)   Securing hazardous demolition sites. Immediately after demolition of
any building or structure, the owner or authorized agent shall securely
barricade all basement excavations and other holes or openings. Within ten days
after demolition of any building or structure, the owner or authorized agent
shall complete the following work:
      (1)   Securely cap and seal all gas, water, and oil pipelines
disconnected from building;
      (2)   Securely close and seal any sanitary piping located on the
property;
      (3)   Fill with dirt or sand any septic tanks or cesspools located on the
property;
      (4)   Fill any openings, excavations, or basements remaining on land with
dirt or sand to the natural level of adjoining property;
      (5)   Remove any buried underground tanks formerly used for storage of
flammable liquids as may be required by the Fire Department; and
      (6)   Remove all refuse, debris, and waste materials from property.
   (B)   Removal of debris and waste materials. The following articles must be
removed from the demolition site and deposited at a designated site: stone,
sod, earth, concrete, glass, and any other building materials.
(Ord. 105, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 RELATING TO BUILDING TYPE.
   (A)   No cellar, garage, tent, recreational vehicle, travel trailer, cargo
container, basement with unfinished structure above, or accessory building
shall at any time be used as a permanent dwelling unit. In all residential
zoning districts of the city, unless prohibited elsewhere in this code or by
other regulations, a recreational vehicle may be occupied on a temporary basis
not exceeding 14 days per calendar year. Recreational vehicles shall not be
occupied for any length of time in any other zoning districts.
   (B)   (1)   No cellar, garage, tent, recreational vehicle, travel trailer,
cargo container, basement with unfinished structure above, shall at any time be
used as an accessory unit.
      (2)   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, Subdivision 9,
the city opts-out of the requirements of M.S. § 462.3593, which defines and
regulates temporary family health care dwellings.
(Ord. 150.03, passed 1-8-2024)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor
and shall be punishable by a sentence of not more than the maximum fine and
period of incarceration imposed under the laws of the State of Minnesota for
misdemeanor violations. This chapter is also enforceable through the city
administrative penalty ordinance.
(Ord. 105, passed - - ; Ord. 5-2, passed 2-14-1972; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-
2014)
CHAPTER 151: BIOFUEL BURNERS
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Prohibition
   
151.04   Pre-existing outdoor biofuel burners
   
151.05   Permit required
   
151.06   Use regulations
   
151.07   Enforcement
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   It is recognized and found that wood smoke and smoke generated by other
outdoor solid fuel (biofuel) heating devices is hazardous to an individual’s
health and may affect the health of the general public when they are
involuntarily exposed to the presence of smoke, and that breathing smoke is a
significant health hazard particularly to children, elderly people, individuals
with cardiovascular disease, and individuals with impaired respiratory
functions. It is also recognized that biofuel burners are designed and intended
to be a primary heat source, and therefore burn, and emit smoke on a continual
basis. Furthermore, significant fire safety risks are involved with units that
are not properly installed, or do not have proper safety equipment such as
spark arrestors; or are installed in close proximity to other buildings. The
purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety, comfort, and
general welfare of the citizens against the hazards posed by biofuel burners.
(Ord. 08-208, passed 2-11-2008)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOFUEL BURNER. A device, structure, or apparatus, which supplies direct or
indirect heat from the burning of solid fuel, including but not limited to
wood, corn, biomass pellets, and other solid biofuels, to a building.
Traditional woodburning stoves and fireplaces are excepted from this chapter.
   STACKS or CHIMNEYS. Any vertical structure enclosing a flue or flues that
carry off smoke or exhaust from a BIOFUEL BURNER.
(Ord. 08-208, passed 2-11-2008)
§ 151.03 PROHIBITION.
   Outdoor biofuel burners are prohibited and shall not be installed or
operated within the city.
(Ord. 08-208, passed 2-11-2008) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 PRE-EXISTING OUTDOOR BIOFUEL BURNERS.
   Any existing biofuel burners installed within the city prior to 2-11-2008,
are required to meet emission standards currently required by the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA), which are hereby adopted by reference together with
any amendments or modifications made to them in the future. Pre-existing
outdoor biofuel burners shall also be subject to the use regulations set forth
in §
151.06 of this chapter. No pre-existing biofuel burners shall hereafter be
extended, enlarged, or expanded. At such time as the useful life of a
nonconforming wood-burning unit or solid fuel-fired heating device has elapsed
or would need to be repaired to function properly, the unit cannot be replaced
and must be abandoned, not used, and removed from the property immediately.
(Ord. 08-208, passed 2-11-2008) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The city requires any person to obtain a zoning permit for any biofuel
burner to be installed within a building after the date Ord. 08-208 became
effective.
(Res. 00-92, passed 9-11-2000; Ord. 08-208, passed 2-11-2008) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 USE REGULATIONS.
   All permitted biofuel burners shall be subject to the following use
regulations.
   (A)   Stacks.
      (1)   The minimum stack height for any biofuel burner shall meet or
exceed the manufacturers’ guidelines. The stack height shall be a minimum of 25
feet above ground level, but shall also extend at least as high as the height
of the roofs of all residences within 500 feet.
      (2)   Any existing non-complying stack shall be removed, replaced, or
modified within a period of 60 days from the receipt of a notice generated from
the Building Official or Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   All stacks or chimneys must be constructed to withstand high winds
or other related elements and according to the specifications of the
manufacturer of the biofuel burner.
      (4)   All stacks or chimneys must be of masonry or insulated metal with a
minimum six-inch flue.
   (B)   Use period. Biofuel burners may only be used from September 1 to May
31 each year, unless the furnace is being used to provide domestic water
service.
   (C)   Allowed fuels. Only the following materials may be burned in the
biofuel burner: biomass pellets, corn, firewood, and clean, untreated lumber or
other wood product prepared or cut to length appropriate for burning.
   (D)   Waste incineration prohibited. No biofuel burners shall be utilized in
any manner as a waste incinerator.
   (E)   Smoke and fumes. Any dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or
cinders, in unreasonable quantities, or any use of biofuel burner to burn solid
fuels other than those solid fuels for which the biofuel burner was designed,
is declared a public nuisance.
   (F)   Fuel storage. Outdoor fuel storage is limited to two cords of wood,
which is the amount of wood that can be stacked to four feet high by four feet
wide by eight feet long. Other fuel sources are similarly limited to a volume
not to exceed four feet high by four feet wide by eight feet long. Any
structures constructed to contain or store fuel for biofuel burners must be
constructed in accordance with the applicable zoning regulations.
(Ord. 08-208, passed 2-11-2008) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Zoning Administrator, City Clerk- Treasurer, Fire Chief, Police
Chief and/or their designees, or designated officials shall enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 08-208, passed 2-11-2008)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day the violation continues unabated shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense. Fines for violations shall established by
resolution of the City Council. This chapter may also be enforced through the
city administrative penalty ordinance.
(Ord. 08-208, passed 2-11-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Administrative penalties, see §
10.98
CHAPTER 152: SIGNS
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Applicability and effect of regulations
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Business and advertising signs
   
152.05   Signs in residential districts
   
152.06   General regulations applicable to all signs
   
152.07   Licenses and permit fees
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these sign regulations is to encourage the effective use of
signs as a means of communication in the city; to maintain and enhance the
aesthetic environment and the city’s ability to attract sources of economic
development and growth; to improve pedestrian and traffic safety; to minimize
the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby public and private property; and
to enable the fair and consistent enforcement of these sign restrictions. This
chapter is adopted under the zoning authority of the city in furtherance of the
more general purposes set forth in the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 5-6, passed 7-8-2002) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02 APPLICABILITY AND EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A sign may be erected, placed, established, painted, created, or
maintained in the city only in conformance with the standards, procedures,
exemptions, and other requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The effect of this chapter as more specifically set forth herein, is:
      (1)   To establish a permit system to allow a variety of types of signs
in commercial and industrial zones, and a limited variety of signs in other
zones, subject to the standards and the permit procedures of this chapter;
      (2)   To allow certain signs that are small, unobtrusive. and incidental
to the principal use of the respective lots on which they are located, subject
to the substantive requirements of this chapter; but without a requirement for
permits;
      (3)   To prohibit all signs not expressly permitted by this chapter; and
      (4)   To provide for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 5-6, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIGN. A name, identification, description, display, illustration, or device
which is affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building,
structure, or land in view of the general public and which directs attention to
a product, place, activity, person, institution, or business.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, activity, or entertainment not conducted, sold, or offered upon the
premises where such sign is located.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
or to a commodity, service, or entertainment sold or offered upon the premises
where such a sign is located.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED.  Any sign which has characters, letters, figures,
designs, or luminous tubes as a part of a sign.
   SIGN, NAMEPLATE. Any sign which states the name or address or both of the
business or occupant of the lot where the sign is placed.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs
converted to A- or T-frames; menu and sandwich board signs; umbrellas used for
advertising; and signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible
from the public right-of-way, unless said vehicles are used in the normal day-
to-day operations of business. Banners attached to buildings are not included
in this definition.
   SIGN, SURFACE AREA. The entire area within a single, continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of the actual sign surface. It does not include
any structural elements outside the limits of such sign and not forming an
integral part of the display. Only one side of a double-face or V-type sign
structure shall be used in computing total SURFACE AREA.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A temporary sign may not be located, used, placed,
installed, erected upon a property for a period in excess of three months.
(Ord. 5-6, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 152.04 BUSINESS AND ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   Regulations. Business and advertising signs that are permitted by the
zoning ordinance are subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   A permit must be obtained from the city for all advertising signs.
Permit fees may be established by resolution of the City Council. Business
signs on the business premises do not require a permit;
      (2)   Business signs are considered an accessory use for all businesses
other than home occupations or other businesses permitted in residential
districts;
      (3)   No sign shall be permitted within 15 feet of any property line that
abuts any class of residential district;
      (4)   The total surface area of all business and advertising signs on a
lot shall not exceed the sum of two square feet per lineal foot of lot frontage
or 15% of the building surface area, or 75 feet in area, whichever is greater;
nor shall two or more smaller signs be so arranged and integrated as to create
a surface area in excess of these limitations. In the case of corner lots, such
signs may be on both street sides of the building facing; however, the least
width of a corner lot shall be the front for purposes of this chapter. Such
signs may be illuminated;
      (5)   Business signs may be placed on the roof of a covered walk or
marquee of a building provided that they do not extend above the roof or
parapet line of said building and provided that they do not exceed the area
maximum set forth for this district, and business signs may be hanging below
such covered walk or marquee provided they are at least eight feet from the
walk or ground grade line, and provided they do not exceed six square feet in
surface area, and provided further that all marquees or signs shall be at least
two feet inside all curb lines;
      (6)   Advertising sign structures shall be limited to not more than one
for a lot of 100 foot frontage or less, and to only one per each additional 100
feet of additional lot frontage. Such structure may not contain more than two
signs per facing nor exceed 55 feet in total length. No advertising sign may be
erected within 100 feet of an adjoining residential district. Such signs may be
illuminated;
      (7)   No sign shall project higher than six feet above the height of the
building, or 32 feet above grade at the base of the sign, whichever is greater;
and
      (8)   Once a permit from the city is obtained, no further permits from
the city shall be required for that sign unless and until the physical
structure or location of that sign is changed, modified, or altered.
   (B)   Portable signs. Portable signs are allowed provided:
      (1)   The sign shall not exceed 54 square feet per side, except that
inflatable signs used for promotions may exceed this square foot limitation;
      (2)   A permit must be obtained from the city for all portable signs.
Permit fees may be established by resolution of the City Council;
      (3)   The sign is not located in the public right-of-way;
      (4)   The sign may be illuminated, but, shall not contain any strobe or
rotating lights;
      (5)   Only one portable sign shall be allowed per lot of record or
business; and
      (6)   Inflatable signs and balloon signs shall not be used for a period
of more than ten days.
(Ord. 5-6, passed 7-8-2002) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   In all classes of residential districts, no sign, business sign, nameplate
sign, or advertising sign shall be erected except in conformance with the
following requirements, which shall not require a permit.
   (A)   Nameplate.
      (1)   A nameplate sign, or professional nameplate sign identifying the
owner or occupant of a building or dwelling unit, provided the surface area of
such sign does not exceed four square feet. Such sign may be placed in any
front yard, but in no case may it be placed in any side yard. Such sign may be
illuminated.
      (2)   One nameplate sign for a dwelling group of five or more units not
exceeding five square feet in surface area. Such signs may indicate the names
and addresses of the buildings or they may be a directory for occupants. Such
sign may be placed in any front yard, but in no case may it be placed in any
side yard. Such sign may be illuminated.
      (3)   One identification sign, not to exceed 50 square feet in area, for
the following uses: church, school, hospital, sanitarium, club, library, or
similar uses. Such signs shall be solely for the purpose of displaying the name
of the institution and its activities or services. Such sign may be
illuminated. Such sign may be placed in any front yard, but in no case may it
be placed in any side yard.
   (B)   Temporary.
      (1)   A sign pertaining to the lease or sale of a building or property,
provided such sign shall not exceed 12 square feet in surface area. Such sign
shall not be illuminated.
      (2)   Temporary signs advertising a new subdivision or development may be
placed in any front yard, in no case shall such sign be placed in any side
yard, nor shall such sign be illuminated. Each subdivision or development shall
be allowed the following signs:
         (a)   One sign not to exceed 96 square feet in surface area, no more
than 15 feet in height or less than two feet above ground;
         (b)   One sign not to exceed 12 square feet in surface area, no more
than 15 feet in height or less than two feet above ground; and
         (c)   Directional signs not to exceed two square feet in surface area,
provided that each subdivision shall be limited to one such sign per major
thoroughfare approach to the subdivision or development. No such sign shall be
allowed adjacent to minor residential streets.
      (3)   Temporary signs identifying an engineer, architect, contractor, or
product engaged in or used in the construction of a building, provided such
signs shall not exceed 12 square feet each in surface area, except where a
larger dimension sign is required by state or federal regulations, and are no
more than 15 feet in height or less than two feet above the ground, and
provided that such signs are removed prior to occupancy of the building. Such
signs may be placed in any front yard, but in no case may they be placed in any
side yard. Such signs shall not be illuminated.
      (4)   Election signs. Political signs are permitted for a period of not
more than 30 days prior to a primary election and ten days after a general
election. Political signs shall be located on private property and shall not be
placed on sign posts, light poles, utility poles, trees, and the like.
   (C)   Directional signs.
      (1)   Directional unilluminated signs not to exceed four square feet in
surface area for the following uses: church, school, hospital, sanitarium,
club, library, or similar uses, provided that each shall be limited to one such
sign per major thoroughfare approach. No such sign shall be allowed adjacent to
minor residential streets.
      (2)   Directional signs in any parking area necessary for the orderly
movement of traffic, provided that such sign shall not be used as advertising
space. Such sign may be illuminated.
(Ord. 5-6, passed 7-8-2002) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 GENERAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL SIGNS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all signs hereinafter permitted in
all districts:
   (A)   Signs and decorations shall not be permitted within the public right-
of-way or easements except that the City Council may grant special permits for
temporary signs and decorations to be strung across the right-of-way;
   (B)   Signs painted on a building shall be governed by the square footage
limitations specified in the appropriate zoning districts;
   (C)   No sign shall be placed that resembles any official marker erected by
a governmental agency or display such words as “stop” or “danger;”
   (D)   No sign shall be permitted to obstruct any window, door, fire escape,
stairway, or opening intended to provide air, ingress, or egress for any
building or structure;
   (E)   Where a sign is illuminated the source of light shall not be directed
into any part of a residence or into any of the classes of residence districts;
   (F)   No sign shall be erected or maintained which is not shielded so as to
prevent its beams or rays of light from being directed at any portion of any
street, avenue, or highway thoroughfare within the city;
   (G)   Any portable signs, advertising signs, business signs, and nameplate
signs, including signs painted on buildings which may be or hereafter become
rotted, unsafe, or unsightly shall be repaired, repainted, or removed. Also, in
the event a business ceases operation for a period of time in excess of 90
days, the sign owner or lessee, or the property owner, shall immediately remove
any sign identifying or advertising said business or any product sold thereby;
provided, however, this requirement shall not apply where under the provisions
of this chapter an existing conforming sign may be altered to advertise a new
business or product sold thereby, and there is evidence that a new business
will be in operation on the premises within 60 days. Upon failure of a sign
owner or lessee, or property owner, to comply with this section, the Building
Official shall issue a written notice which shall state that such a sign shall
be removed within 30 days. If the sign owner or lessee, or property owner,
fails to comply with such written notice to remove, the Building Official shall
report that fact forthwith to the Council. Thereafter, the Council, after
notice and hearing, may cause removal of such sign. The Council may also grant
a building owner an extension of the time necessary to remove the sign. Any
expense incidental to such removal shall be charged to the owner of the
property upon which the sign is located and shall constitute a lien upon the
property. For the purpose of this section, the word REMOVAL shall mean:
      (1)   The sign face, along with posts, columns, or supports of
freestanding signs, shall be taken down and removed from the property;
      (2)   The sign face and supporting structures of “projecting,” “roof,” or
“wall” signs shall be taken down and removed from the property; and
      (3)   The sign face of “painted wall signs” shall be removed by painting
over the wall sign in such a manner as to completely cover up and hide from
sight the sign in question; and
   (H)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (G) above, the sign owner,
lessee, mortgagee, or contract for deed vendor of the same may petition the
Council in lieu of removal to cover the sign face or to remove all writing from
the sign, or in cases where a successive business may use the same sign, to
allow the same sign to remain for a period not to exceed one year. The Council,
upon consideration of the petition, may grant or refuse the exception
requested, after weighing the public and private interest.
(Ord. 5-6, passed 7-8-2002) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 LICENSES AND PERMIT FEES.
   The owner or other persons having control of any sign for which a permit is
required by this chapter shall file an application for a permit for the
maintenance of such sign. Application for such permits shall be accompanied by
detailed plans and such other necessary information to determine the location
compliance with all applicable regulations and a permit may be issued upon
payment of the required permit fee to be determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 5-6, passed 7-8-2002) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions
hereof or who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions hereof or who
shall make any false statement in any document required to be submitted under
the provisions hereof shall be guilty of misdemeanor. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense. This chapter may also be
enforced through the city administrative penalty ordinance.
(Ord. 5-6, passed 7-8-2002)
Cross-reference:
   Administrative penalties, see §
10.98
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Jurisdiction
   
153.004   Definitions
   
153.005   Approvals necessary for acceptance of subdivision plats
   
153.006   Conditions for recording
   
153.007   Zoning permits
   
153.008   Exceptions
   
153.009   Separability
   
153.010   Conflict
   
153.011   Amendment
   
153.012   Notifications
   
153.013   Misrepresentation as to construction, supervision, or inspection of
improvements
Procedures for Filing and Review
   
153.025   Preliminary plat
   
153.026   Final plat
Premature Subdivision
   
153.040   Denial by Council
   
153.041   Condition establishing premature subdivisions
   
153.042   Burden of establishing
Plat and Data Requirements
   
153.055   Preliminary plat
   
153.056   Final plat
   
153.057   Certification required
Design Standards
   
153.070   Blocks
   
153.071   Lots
   
153.072   Streets and alleys
   
153.073   Easements
   
153.074   Erosion and sediment control
   
153.075   Storm drainage
   
153.076   Protected areas
   
153.077   Shoreland areas
Required Basic Improvements
   
153.090   General provisions
   
153.091   Improvements
Nonplatted Subdivision
   
153.105   Registered land surveys
   
153.106   Conveyance by metes and bounds
Variances, Recommendations, Standards
   
153.120   Findings
   
153.121   Procedure
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Subdivision Ordinance of the City of
Lake Park,” and will be referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish regulations and requirements
for the subdivision of property within the jurisdiction of this chapter, in
order to provide for orderly development and extension of municipal services
and to safeguard the best interests of the city in accord with Minnesota
Statutes, which regulations the City Council deems necessary for the health,
safety, and general welfare of this community.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 153.003 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations herein governing plats and the subdivision of land shall
apply within the corporate limits of the city and the unincorporated area
within two miles of its limits; provided that where a municipality lies less
than four miles from the limits of the city, these regulations shall apply only
to a line equidistant from the city and the other municipality; and provided
further that the governing body or bodies of unincorporated areas adjacent to
the city have not adopted ordinances for the regulation of subdivision of land
or platting.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 153.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. For the
purpose of this chapter, words used in the present tense shall include the
future; words in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural
singular.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on a street.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided for his or her
representation. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets, or by streets and the entire boundary or boundaries of the
subdivision, or a combination of the above with a river or lake.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of the street right-of-way between the curb line and
the property line.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for shelter, housing, business,
office, and accommodation of persons, animals, chattels, property.
   CITY. The City of Lake Park, Minnesota.
   CITY COUNCIL. The governing body of the city.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The group of maps, charts, and text that make up the
comprehensive long-range plan of the city, if any.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. The specifications to land owners or subdividers for the
preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other
things, the optimum, minimum, or maximum dimensions of such items as rights-of-
way, blocks, easements, and lots.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of strip of land and for
the purpose of constructing and maintaining drives, utilities, including, but
not limited to, wetlands, ponding areas, sanitary sewers, watermains, electric
lines, telephone lines, storm sewers, or storm drainage ways and gas lines.
   EASEMENT, SLOPE. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land
for the purpose of constructing a slope or grade transition from the existing
property grade to a new street grade.
   FINAL PLAT. A drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all of the
requirements of the city and in such form as required by the county for the
purpose of recording.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank, seepage tile sewage
disposal system, or any other approved sewage treatment device.
   INTERSECTION, STREET. The point of crossing or meeting of two or more
streets.
   LOT. A piece, parcel, or area of land of continuous assemblage established
by survey, plat, or deed, having such open spaces as are required under the
provisions of the current city zoning regulations, having not less than the
minimum area required by the zoning ordinance.
   LOT, CORNER. An abutting of two public streets at their intersection, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding 135 degrees.
   LOT IMPROVEMENT. Any building, structure, place, work of art, or other
object, or improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a
physical betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment. Certain
LOT IMPROVEMENTS shall be properly bonded as provided in these regulations.
   OUTLOT. A lot remnant or parcel of land left over after platting, which is
intended as open space or other use, for which no development is intended and
for which no zoning permit shall be issued.
   OWNER. Includes the plural as well as the singular, and where appropriate
shall include a natural person, partnership, firm, association, public or
quasi-public corporation, private corporation, or a combination of them.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public right-of-way or private easement across a block or
within a block to provide access for pedestrians and which may be used for the
installation of utility lines.
   PERCENTAGE OF GRADE. On street centerline, means the distance vertically
from the horizontal in feet and tenths of a foot for each 100 feet of
horizontal distance.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A tentative drawing or map of a proposed subdivision
meeting the requirements herein enumerated.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts made between private parties as to the
manner in which land may be used, with the view to protecting and preserving
the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrianway, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement, or other
facility for which the city may ultimately assume the responsibility for
maintenance and operation, or which may affect an improvement for which local
government responsibility is established.
   SETBACK. The distance between a building and the property line nearest
thereto.
   SHALL. Is mandatory and not discretionary.
   STREET. A public or private right-of-way which affords the principal means
of access to abutting property.
      (1)   STREETS, COLLECTOR STREETS. Those streets which carry traffic from
local streets to the major system of arterials and highways. Collector streets
primarily provide principal access to residential neighborhoods, including, to
a lessor degree direct land access.
      (2)   STREETS, CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and having
an appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic
movement.
      (3)   STREETS, LOCAL STREET. Those streets which are used primarily for
access to abutting properties and for local traffic movement.
      (4)   STREETS, MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. Those local streets which are
parallel and adjacent to thoroughfares and highways; and which provide access
to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
      (5)   STREETS, PRIVATE. A private right-of-way affording access by
pedestrians and vehicles which is under individual rather than municipal
control.
      (6)   STREETS, THOROUGHFARES, ARTERIAL STREETS. Those streets carrying
larger volumes of traffic and serving as links between various subareas of the
community. THOROUGHFARES or ARTERIAL STREETS are intended to provide for
collection and distribution of traffic between highways and collector streets;
hence regulation of direct access to property is critical.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the
street’s right-of-way.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartners,
corporation, trust, or other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of land resulting in a parcel of land less than
five acres in area or less than 300 feet in width on its shortest side, for the
purpose of transfer of ownership or building development or, if a new street is
involved, any division of land. The term includes resubdivision and, when
appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process of subdividing or to
the land subdivided.
   TANGENT. A straight line departing from a curve which is perpendicular to
the radius of that curve.
   TRACT. A parcel of land intended for division or development of a
subdivision.
   U.S.G.S. DATUM. United States Geodetic Survey Datum.
   VERTICAL CURVE. The surface curvature on a street centerline located between
lines of different percentage of grade.
(Res. 00-92, passed 9-11-2000; Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 153.005 APPROVALS NECESSARY FOR ACCEPTANCE OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   Before any plat shall be recorded or be of any validity, it shall be
referred to and approved by the City Council as having fulfilled the
requirements of this chapter. No land shall be subdivided which is held
unsuitable by the Council for the proposed use because of flooding, inadequate
drainage, soil and rock formations with severe limitations for development,
severe erosion potential, unfavorable topography, inadequate water supply or
sewage disposal capabilities or any other feature likely to be harmful to the
health, safety, or welfare of future residents of the proposed subdivision or
of the community.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.006 CONDITIONS FOR RECORDING.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to record in the County
Recorder’s Office or have any validity until the plat thereof has been
prepared, approved, and acknowledged in the manner prescribed by this chapter.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 153.007 ZONING PERMITS.
   No zoning or other permit shall be considered for issuance by the city for
the use of any property or improvement to the land or to any lot in a
subdivision as defined herein, until all requirements of this chapter have been
fully complied with.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.008 EXCEPTIONS.
   The City Council may exempt the subdivider from complying with any
procedural requirements of this chapter that are deemed inappropriate when a
landowner requests to divide a lot which is a part of a recorded plat where the
division is to permit the adding of a parcel of land to an abutting lot or to
create two lots and the newly created property line will not cause the other
remaining portion of the lot or any structure to be in violation with this
chapter or the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 153.009 SEPARABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is
for any reason found to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portion of this chapter.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 153.010 CONFLICT.
   Whenever there is a difference between minimum standards or dimensions
specified herein and those contained in other official regulations,
resolutions, or ordinances of the city, the most restrictive standards shall
apply.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 153.011 AMENDMENT.
   This chapter may be amended from time to time by duly adopted ordinance of
the City Council.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 153.012 NOTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Copies of all plats with lands which are all or partially located
within the shoreland district shall be submitted to the Commissioner of Natural
Resources ten days prior to such hearings as are required under this chapter.
Copies of all plats within the shoreland district shall be submitted to the
Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days after final approval by the
City Council.
   (B)   If the proposed plat includes lands abutting upon any existing or
established trunk highway or proposed highway which has been designated by a
centerline order filed in the office of the County Recorder, the preliminary
plat must be presented to the State Commissioner of Transportation for written
comments and recommendations at least 30 days prior to final action on the
preliminary plat. Final action shall not be taken until after comment is
received or until the 30-day period has elapsed.
   (C)   If the proposed plat includes lands abutting an existing or proposed
county road, highway, or county state-aid highway that is designated on a map
or county highway plan filed in the office of the County Recorder, the
preliminary plat must be submitted to the County Engineer for review within
five business days after receipt by the city. Within 30 days after county
receipt of the preliminary plat the County Engineer shall provide to the city
written comments stating whether the preliminary plat meets county guidelines
and describing any necessary modifications. Final action shall not be taken
until after comment is received or until the comment period has expired,
whichever occurs first.
   (D)   Within ten business days following the city’s approval of a
preliminary plat the city shall submit notice of its approval to the County
Board, along with a statement addressing the disposition of any written
comments or recommendations made by the County Engineer. The city shall file a
certificate or other evidence showing submission of the preliminary plat to the
Commissioner or County Engineer along with the final plat.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 153.013 MISREPRESENTATION AS TO CONSTRUCTION, SUPERVISION, OR INSPECTION OF
IMPROVEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation owning an addition
or subdivision of land within the city to represent that any improvement upon
any of the streets, alleys, or avenues of said addition or subdivision or any
sewer in said addition or subdivision has been constructed according to the
plans and specifications approved by the City Council, or has been supervised
or inspected by the city when such improvements have not been so constructed,
supervised, or inspected.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
PROCEDURES FOR FILING AND REVIEW
§ 153.025 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Filing. Five copies of the preliminary plat and list of property
owners abutting the plat shall be submitted to the City Clerk-Treasurer. The
required Filing fee as established by City Council resolution shall be paid and
any necessary applications by City Council resolution shall be paid and any
necessary applications from variances from the provisions of this ordinance
shall be submitted with the required fee. The proposed plat shall be placed on
the agenda of the first possible City Council meeting occurring after ten days
from the date of submission. The plan shall be considered as being officially
submitted when all the information requirements are complied with.
   (B)   Hearing. The City Council, upon receipt of said application, shall
instruct the City Clerk-Treasurer to set a public hearing for public review of
the preliminary plat. Said hearing shall be established once adequate time has
been allowed for staff and advisory body review of the plat. The City Council
shall conduct the hearing and shall make findings. Notice of said hearing shall
consist of a legal property description, description of request and map
detailing property location, and be published in the official newspaper at
least ten days prior to the hearing and written notification of said hearing
shall be mailed at least ten days prior to all owners of land within 150 feet
of the boundary of the property in question, excluding roadways.
   (C)   Technical assistance reports. After the public hearing has been set,
the City Clerk-Treasurer may instruct the City Engineer and city staff to
prepare technical reports where appropriate, and provide general assistance in
preparing a recommendation on the action to the City Council.
   (D)   City Council action.
      (1)   If all requirements of this chapter are complied with, the Council
shall act upon the preliminary plat and may impose conditions and restrictions
which are deemed necessary within 60 days of the date of receipt by the city of
a completed written request for approval of the preliminary plat containing all
of the information required by this chapter.
      (2)   If the preliminary plat is not approved by the City Council, the
reasons for such action shall be entered as findings of fact and recorded in
the proceedings of the Council and transmitted to the applicant. If the
preliminary plat is approved, such approval shall not constitute final
acceptance of the layout. Subsequent approval will be required of the
engineering proposals and other features and requirements as specified by this
chapter to be indicated on the final plat. The City Council may require such
revisions in the preliminary plat and final plat as it deems necessary for the
health, safety, general welfare, and convenience of the city.
      (3)   If the preliminary plat is approved by the City Council, the
subdivider must submit the final plat within 12 months after said approval or
approval of the preliminary plat shall be considered void, unless a request for
time extension is submitted in writing and approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 153.026 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Filing. After the preliminary plat has been approved, the final plat
shall be submitted for review as set forth in the divisions which follow.
   (B)   Submission of final plat. Five copies of the final plat shall be
submitted to the City Clerk- Treasurer for distribution to the City Council,
and appropriate city staff, 20 days prior to a City Council meeting at which
consideration is requested. During the 20 days, the city staff shall examine
the final plat and prepare a recommendation to the City Council.
   (C)   Approval of the City Council. After review of the final plat by the
city staff, such final plat, together with the recommendations of the city
staff, shall be submitted to the City Council for approval within 60 days of
submission of the final plat for review. If accepted, the final plat shall be
approved by resolution, which resolution shall provide for the acceptance of
all agreements for basic improvements, public dedication, and other
requirements as indicated by the City Council. If disapproved, the grounds for
any refusal to approve a plat shall be set forth as findings of the proceedings
of the Council and reported to the person or persons applying for such,
approval.
   (D)   Special assessments. When any existing special assessments which have
been levied against the property described be divided and allocated to the
respective lots in the proposed plat, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall estimate
the clerical cost of preparing a revised assessment roll, filing the same with
the County Auditor, and making such division and allocation, and upon approval
by the Council of such cost the same shall be paid to the City Clerk-Treasurer
by the subdivider before the final plat is approved.
   (E)   Recording final plat. If the final plat is approved by the City
Council, the subdivider shall record it with the County Recorder within 100
days after said approval or approval of the final plat shall be considered
void, unless a request for time extension is submitted in writing and approved
by the City Council. No zoning or other permits shall be issued for any lot in
said plat until the city has received evidence of the plat being recorded by
the county.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
PREMATURE SUBDIVISION
§ 153.040 DENIAL BY COUNCIL.
   Any preliminary plat of a proposed subdivision deemed premature for
development shall be denied by the City Council.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 153.041 CONDITION ESTABLISHING PREMATURE SUBDIVISIONS.
   A subdivision may be deemed premature should any of the conditions set forth
in the provisions which follow exist.
   (A)   Lack of adequate drainage.
      (1)   A condition of inadequate drainage shall be deemed to exist if:
         (a)   Surface or subsurface water retention and runoff is such that it
constitutes a danger to the structural security of the proposed structure;
         (b)   The proposed subdivision will cause pollution of water sources
or damage from erosion and siltation on downhill or downstream land; or
         (c)   The proposed site grading and development will cause harmful and
irreparable damage from erosion and siltation on downhill or downstream land.
      (2)   Factors to be considered in making these determinations may
include: average rainfall for the area; the relation of the land to
floodplains; the nature of soils and subsoils and their ability to adequately
support surface water runoff and waste disposal systems; the slope of the land
and its effect on effluents; and the presence of streams as related to effluent
disposal.
   (B)   Lack of adequate water supply. A proposed subdivision shall be deemed
to lack an adequate water supply if the proposed subdivision does not have
adequate sources of water to serve the proposed division if developed to its
maximum permissible density without causing an unreasonable depreciation of
existing water supplies for surrounding areas.
   (C)   Lack of adequate roads or highways to serve the subdivision. A
proposed subdivision shall be deemed to lack adequate roads or highways to
serve the subdivision when:
      (1)   Roads which serve the proposed subdivision are of such a width,
grade, stability, vertical and horizontal alignment, site distance, and surface
condition that an increase in traffic volumes generated by the proposed
subdivision would create a hazard to public safety and general welfare, or
seriously aggravate an already hazardous condition, and when, with due regard
to the advice of the county and/or the state Department of Transportation, said
roads are inadequate for the intended use; and/or
      (2)   The traffic volume generated by the proposed subdivision would
create unreasonable highway congestion or unsafe conditions on highways
existing at the time of the application or proposed for completion within the
next two years.
   (D)   Lack of adequate waste disposal systems. A proposed subdivision shall
be deemed to lack adequate waste disposal systems if in subdivisions for which
sewer lines are proposed, there is inadequate sewer capacity in the present
system to support the subdivision if developed to its maximum permissible
density after reasonable sewer capacity is reserved for schools, planned public
facilities, and commercial and industrial development projected for the next
five years; or if in subdivisions where sewer lines are neither available nor
proposed, there is inadequate on-site sewer capacity potential to support the
subdivision if developed to the maximum permissible density indicated in the
city zoning ordinance, as may be amended.
   (E)   Inconsistency with zoning ordinance. The proposed subdivision is
inconsistent with the purposes, objectives, and recommendations of the duly
adopted zoning ordinance of the city, as may be amended.
   (F)   Providing public improvements. Public improvements, such as
recreational facilities, or other public facilities, reasonably necessitated by
the subdivision, which must be provided at public expense, cannot be reasonably
provided for within the next two fiscal years.
   (G)   MEQC policies. The proposed subdivision is inconsistent with the
policies of MEQC 25, as may be amended, and could adversely impact critical
environmental areas or potentially disrupt or destroy historic areas which are
designated or officially recognized by the City Council in violation of federal
and state historical preservation law.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 153.042 BURDEN OF ESTABLISHING.
   The burden shall be upon the applicant to show that the proposed subdivision
is not premature.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
PLAT AND DATA REQUIREMENTS.
§ 153.055 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The subdivider shall prepare and submit a preliminary plat, together with
any necessary supplementary information. The preliminary plat shall contain the
information set forth in the subdivisions which follow.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision; names shall not duplicate or too
closely resemble names of existing subdivisions. Location of boundary lines in
relation to a known section, quarter section, or quarter-quarter section lines
comprising a legal description of the property;
      (2)   Names and addresses of all persons having property interest, the
developer, designer, and surveyor together with his or her registration number;
      (3)   Graphic scale or plat, not less than one inch to 100 feet; and
      (4)   Date and north arrow.
   (B)   Existing conditions.
      (1)   Boundary line and total acreage of proposed plat, clearly
indicated;
      (2)   Existing zone classifications for land within and abutting the
subdivision;
      (3)   Location, width, and names of all existing or previously platted
streets or other public ways, showing type, width, and conditions of
improvements, if any, railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks and other
public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, easements, and section
and corporate lines within the tract;
      (4)   If the proposed subdivision is a re-arrangement or a replat of any
former plat, the lot and block arrangement of the original plat along with its
original names, shall be indicated by dotted or dashed lines. Also, any revised
or vacated roadways of the original plat shall be so indicated;
      (5)   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts, or
other underground facilities within the tract and to a distance of 100 feet
beyond the tract. Such data as grade, invert elevations, and locations of catch
basins, manholes, and hydrants shall also be shown;
      (6)   Boundary lines of adjoining unsubdivided or subdivided land; and
      (7)   In plats where public water and sewer are not available, the
subdivider shall file a report prepared by a registered civil engineer on the
feasibility of individual on-site sewer and water systems on each lot, and
shall include soils boring analysis and percolation tests to verify
conclusions.
   (C)   Proposed design features.
      (1)   Layout of proposed streets showing the right-of-way, centerline
gradients, typical cross sections, and proposed names of streets in conformance
with city and county street identification policies. The name of any street
heretofore used in the city or its environs shall not be used unless the
proposed street is a logical extension of an already named street, in which
event the same name shall be used;
      (2)   Locations and widths of proposed alleys and pedestrian ways;
      (3)   Where the subdivider owns property adjacent to that which is being
proposed for the subdivision, it shall be required that the subdivider submit a
sketch plan of the remainder of the property so as to show the possible
relationships between the proposed subdivision and the future subdivision. In
any event, all subdivisions shall be required to relate well with existing or
potential adjacent subdivisions;
      (4)   Location, dimension, and purpose of all easements;
      (5)   Layout, numbers, lot areas, and preliminary dimensions of lots and
blocks;
      (6)   Minimum front and side street building setback lines;
      (7)   When lots are located on a curve, the width of the lot at the
building setback line;
      (8)   Areas, other than streets, alleys, pedestrian ways, and utility
easements, intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use, including the
size of such area or areas in acres;
      (9)   Water supply. Water mains shall be provided to serve the
subdivision by extension of an existing community system wherever feasible.
Service connections shall be studded into the property line and all necessary
fire hydrants shall also be provided. Extensions of the public water supply
system shall be designed so as to provide public water by and constructed under
the supervision of the City Engineer. In areas where public water supply is not
available, individual wells shall be provided on each lot, properly placed in
relationship to the individual sewage disposal facilities on the same and
adjoining lots. Well plans must comply with the State Well Code, as may be
amended, and the city water utility ordinance and be submitted for the approval
of the City Engineer;
      (10)   Sewage disposal, public. Sanitary sewer mains and service
connections shall be installed by and constructed under the supervision of the
City Engineer; and
      (11)   Sewage disposal, private. All on-site septic systems shall be
installed in accordance with all applicable State Pollution Control Agency
regulations and city ordinances.
   (D)   Supplementary information.
      (1)   Any or all of the supplementary information requirements set forth
in this division (D) shall be submitted when deemed necessary by the city staff
or City Council;
      (2)   Proposed protective covenants;
      (3)   An accurate soil survey of the subdivision prepared by a qualified
person;
      (4)   Statement of the proposed use of lots stating type of buildings
with number proposed dwelling units or type of business or industry, so as to
reveal the effect the development on traffic, fire hazards, and congestion of
population;
      (5)   If any zoning changes are contemplated, the proposed zoning plan
for the areas, including dimensions, shall be shown. Such proposed zoning plan
shall be for information only and shall not vest any rights in the applicant;
      (6)   Provision for surface water disposal, ponding, drainage, and flood
control;
      (7)   Complete topographic map with contour intervals not greater than
two feet, water courses, marshes, rock outcrops, and other significant
features, all superimposed on at least one print of preliminary plat. United
States Geodetic Survey datum shall be used for all topographic mapping. High
water elevation and date thereof if parts of plat are wet or have been wet. In
the case of a subdivision where no new street is involved, the required
topographic map may be waived if it is deemed unnecessary by the City Engineer
and the City Council;
      (8)   Where structures are to be placed on large or excessively deep lots
which are subject to potential replat, the preliminary plat shall indicate a
logical way in which the lots could possibly be resubdivided in the future;
      (9)   A plan for soil erosion and sediment control both during
construction and after development has been completed. The plan shall include
gradients of water-ways, design of velocity and erosion control measures,
design of sediment control measures, and landscaping of the erosion and
sediment control system;
      (10)   All vegetation preservation and protection plan that shows those
trees proposed to be removed, those to remain, the types and locations of
trees, and other vegetation that are to be planted;
      (11)   A financial statement of the developer/ subdivider satisfactory to
the city; and
      (12)   Such other information as may be required.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 153.056 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The owner or subdivider shall submit a final plat together with any
necessary supplementary information.
   (B)   The final plat, prepared for recording purposes, shall be prepared in
accordance with provisions of state statutes and county regulations, and such
final plat shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Names of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate or too closely
approximate the name of any existing subdivision;
      (2)   Location by section, township, range, county, and state, and
including descriptive boundaries of the subdivision, based on an accurate
traverse, giving angular and linear dimensions which must be mathematically
close. The allowable error closure or any portion of a final plat shall be one
foot in 75,000;
      (3)   The location of monuments shall be shown and described on the final
plat. Locations of such monuments shall be shown in reference to existing
official monuments on the nearest established street lines, including true
angles and distances to such reference points or monuments;
      (4)   Location of lots, streets, public highways, alleys, parks, and
other features, with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet, with the
length of radii and/or arcs of all curves, and with all other information
necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground shall be shown. Dimensions shall
be shown from all angle points of curve to lot lines;
      (5)   Lots shall be numbered clearly. Blocks are to be numbered, with
numbers shown clearly in the center of the block;
      (6)   The exact locations, widths, and names of all streets to be
dedicated;
      (7)   Location and width of all easements to be dedicated;
      (8)   Name and address of surveyor making the plat;
      (9)   Scale of plat (the scale to be graphically on a bar scale), date,
and north arrow;
      (10)   Statement dedicating all easements as follows: easements for
installation and maintenance of utilities and drainage facilities are reserved
over, under, and along the strips marked “utility easements;”
      (11)   Statement dedicating all streets, alleys, and other public areas
not previously dedicated as follows: streets, alleys, and other public areas
shown on this plat and not heretofore dedicated to public use are hereby so
dedicated; and
      (12)   The owner shall submit with the final plat an opinion by an
attorney admitted to practice law in the state certifying that the owner has
good and marketable title to the property being subdivided including any
property being dedicated to the public use.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 153.057 CERTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Certification by registered surveyor in the form required by M.S. §
505.03, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Execution of all owners of any interest in the land, any holders of a
mortgage thereon of the certificates required by M.S. § 505.03, as it may be
amended from time to time, and which certificate shall include a dedication of
the utility easements and other public areas in such form as approved by the
City Council.
   (C)   Space for certificates of approval and review to be filled in by the
signatures of the Mayor and City Clerk. The form of certificate by the City
Council is as follows:
Approved by the City of Lake Park, Minnesota, this        day of      , 20   .
   Signed                                
   Mayor
   Attest                                 
   City Clerk-Treasurer
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
DESIGN STANDARDS.
§ 153.070 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block length. In general, intersecting streets, determining block
lengths, shall be provided at such intervals so as to serve cross-traffic
adequately and to meet existing streets. Where no existing plats control, the
blocks in residential subdivisions should not exceed 1,325 feet nor be less
than 400 feet in length, except where topography or other conditions justify a
departure from this maximum. In blocks longer than 800 feet, pedestrian ways
and/or easements through the block may be required near the center of the
block.
   (B)   Block width. The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to
allow two tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for business or
industrial use shall be of such width as to be considered most suitable for
their respective use, including adequate space for off-street parking and
deliveries.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.071 LOTS.
   (A)   Area. The minimum lot area, width, and depth shall not be less than
that established by the city zoning ordinance in effect at the time of adoption
of the final plat.
   (B)   Corner lots. Corner lots for residential uses shall have additional
width to permit appropriate building setback from both streets are required in
the zoning ordinance.
   (C)   Side lot lines. Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right
angles to street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   (D)   Frontage. Every lot must have the minimum frontage on a city approved
street other than an alley, as required in the zoning ordinance.
   (E)   Setback lines. Setback or building lines shall be shown on all lots
intended for residential use and shall not be less than the setback required by
the zoning ordinance, as may be amended.
   (F)   Water courses. Lots abutting a water course, wetland, ponding area, or
stream shall have additional depth and width, as required under the provisions
of the zoning ordinance.
   (G)   Features. In the subdividing of any land, due regard shall be shown
for all natural features, such as tree growth, water courses, historic spots,
or similar situations which if preserved, will add attractiveness and stability
to the proposed development.
   (H)   Lot remnants. All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after
subdividing of a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots, rather than
allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
   (I)   Political boundaries. No singular plat shall extend over a political
boundary or school district line without document notification to affected
units of government.
   (J)   Frontage on two streets. Double-frontage, or lots with frontage on two
parallel streets, shall not be permitted except where lots back on arterial
streets or highways, or where topographic or other conditions render
subdividing otherwise unreasonable. Such double-frontage lots shall have an
additional depth of at least 20 feet in order to allow space for screen
planting along the back lot line.
   (K)   Turn around access. Where proposed residential lots abut a collector
or arterial street, they should be platted in such a manner as to encourage
turn-around access and egress on each lot.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.072 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Streets, continuous. Except for cul-de-sacs, streets shall connect
with streets already dedicated in adjoining or adjacent subdivisions, or
provide for future connections to adjoining unsubdivided tracts, or shall be a
reasonable projection of streets in the nearest subdivided tracts. The
arrangement of thoroughfares and collector streets shall be considered in their
relation to the reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographic conditions,
to run-off of storm water, to public convenience and safety, and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed uses of area to be served.
   (B)   Local streets and dead-end streets. Local streets should be so planned
as to discourage their use by non-local traffic. Dead-end streets are
prohibited, but cul-de-sacs shall be permitted where topography or other
physical conditions justify their use. Cul-de-sacs shall not be longer than 500
feet, including a terminal turn-around which shall be provided at the closed
end, with a right-of-way radius of not less than 70 feet.
   (C)   Street plans for future subdivisions. Where the plat to be submitted
includes only part of the tract owned or intended for development by the
subdivider, a tentative plan of a proposed future street system for the
unsubdivided portion shall be prepared and submitted by the subdivider.
   (D)   Temporary cul-de-sac. In those instances where a street is terminated
pending future extension in conjunction with future subdivision, a temporary
turn-around facility shall be provided at the closed end, in conformance with
cul-de-sac requirements.
   (E)   Provisions for resubdivision of large lots and parcels. When a tract
is subdivided into larger than normal building lots or parcels, such lots or
parcels shall be so arranged as to permit the logical location and openings of
future streets and appropriate resubdivision, with provision for adequate
utility connections for such resubdivision.
   (F)   Street intersections. Under normal conditions, streets shall be laid
out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, except where
topography or other conditions justify variations. Under normal conditions, the
minimum angle of intersection of streets shall be 80 degrees. Street
intersection jogs with an offset of less than 125 feet shall be avoided.
   (G)   Subdivision abutting major rights-of-ways. Wherever the proposed
subdivision contains or is adjacent to the right-of-way of a U.S. or state
highway or thoroughfare, provision may be made for a marginal access street
approximately parallel and adjacent to the boundary of such right-of-way,
provided that due consideration is given to proper circulation design, or for a
street at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of land between such
street and right-of-way. Such distance shall be determined with due
consideration of the minimum distance required for approach connections to
future grade separations, or for lot depths.
   (H)   Sidewalks. In those cases where the City Council deems appropriate and
necessary, sidewalks of not less than six feet in width shall be provided. In
all cases where sidewalks are provided, provisions shall be made for
handicapped access.
   (I)   Service access, alleys. Service access shall be provided in commercial
and industrial districts for off-street loading, unloading, and parking
consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed. Except where justified by
special conditions, such as the continuation of an existing alley in the same
block, alleys will not be approved in residential districts. Alleys, where
provided, shall not be less than 30 feet wide. Dead-end alleys shall be avoided
wherever possible, but if unavoidable, such dead-end alleys may be approved if
adequate turn-around facilities arc provided at the closed end.
   (J)   Half streets. Dedication of half streets shall not be considered for
approval except where it is essential to the reasonable development of the
subdivision and in conformity with the other requirements of these regulations
or where it is found that it will be practical to require the dedication of the
other half when the adjoining property is subdivided.
   (K)   Street grades. Except when, upon the recommendation of the City
Engineer, the topography warrants a greater maximum, the grades in all streets,
thoroughfares, collector streets, local streets, and alleys in any subdivision
shall not be greater than as follows: arterial street, 4%; collector street,
5%; local street and alley, 8%. In addition, there shall be a minimum grade on
all streets and thoroughfares of not less than 30%.
   (L)   Reverse curves. There shall be a tangent between all reversed curves
of a length in relation to the radii of the curves so as to provide for a
smooth flow of traffic.
   (M)   Reserve strips. Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be
prohibited except under conditions accepted by the City Council.
   (N)   Street right-of-way width.
      (1)   For all public ways hereafter dedicated and accepted, the minimum
right-of-way widths for streets and thoroughfares, alleys, or pedestrian ways
included in any subdivision shall not be less than the minimum dimensions for
each classification as follows:
 
Alley            30 feet
Arterial Street  66 feet
Collector Street 66 feet
Local Street     66 feet
Pedestrian Way   10 feet
 
      (2)   Where existing or anticipated traffic on thoroughfares warrants
greater widths of right-of-way, these shall be required.
   (O)   Street alignment. The horizontal and vertical alignment standards on
all streets shall be as follows:
      (1)   Horizontal radii of centerline.
 
Arterial Street  500 feet - minimum
Collector Street 400 feet - minimum
Minor Street     150 feet - minimum
 
      (2)   Vertical. All changes in street grades shall be connected by
vertical parabolic curves of such length as follows:
 
Arterial Street  20 times the algebraic difference in the percent of grade of
                 the two adjacent slopes
Collector Street 10 times the algebraic difference in the percent of grade of
                 the two adjacent slopes
 
   (3)   Private streets. All proposed streets shall be offered for dedication
as public streets. No private streets shall be permitted, except as set forth
in other ordinances.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.073 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Width and location. An easement for utilities at least six feet wide
shall be provided along all lot lines. If necessary for the extension of main
water or sewer lines or similar utilities, easements of greater width may be
required along lot lines or across lots.
   (B)   Continuous utility easement location. Utility easements shall connect
with easements established in adjoining properties. These easements, when
approved, shall not thereafter be changed without the approval of the City
Council after a public hearing.
   (C)   Guy wires. Additional easements for pole guys should be provided,
where appropriate, at the outside of turns. Where possible, lot lines shall be
arranged to bisect the exterior angle so that pole guys will fall along side
lot lines.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.074 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   (A)   The development shall conform to the natural limitations presented by
topography and soil so as to create the least potential for soil erosion.
   (B)   Erosion and siltation control measures shall be coordinated with the
different stages of construction. Appropriate control measures shall be
installed prior to development when necessary to control erosion.
   (C)   Land shall be developed in increments of workable size such that
adequate erosion and siltation controls can be provided as construction
progresses. The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any one
period of time.
   (D)   When soil is exposed, the exposure shall be for the shortest feasible
period of time, as specified by the City Engineer.
   (E)   Where the topsoil is removed, sufficient arable soil shall be set
aside for respreadmg over the developed area. Topsoil shall be restored or
provided to a depth of four inches and shall be of a quality at least equal to
the soil quality prior to development.
   (F)   Natural vegetation shall be protected wherever practical.
   (G)   Runoff water shall be diverted to a sedimentation basin before being
allowed to enter the natural drainage system.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.075 STORM DRAINAGE.
   All subdivision design shall incorporate adequate provisions for storm water
runoff subject to review and approval of the City Engineer.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.076 PROTECTED AREAS.
   (A)   Where land proposed for subdivision is deemed environmentally
sensitive by the city, due to the existence of wetlands, drainage ways, water
courses, floodable areas of steep slopes, the design of said subdivisions shall
clearly reflect all necessary measures of protection to ensure against adverse
environmental impact.
   (B)   No land shall be subdivided which is unsuitable for the reason of
flooding, inadequate drainage, water supply, or sewage treatment facilities.
All lots within the flood plain districts shall contain a building site at or
above the regulatory flood protection elevation. All subdivisions shall have
water and sewage treatment facilities that comply with the provisions of this
chapter and have road access both to the subdivision and to the individual
building sites no lower than two feet below the regulatory flood protection
elevation. For all subdivisions in the flood plain, the floodway and flood
fringe boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation and the required
elevation of all access roads shall be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
   (C)   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established
criteria for removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain
structures properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s
requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of
special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
   (D)   Based upon the necessity to control and maintain certain sensitive
areas, the city shall determine whether the protection will be accomplished
through lot enlargement or dedication of those sensitive areas in the form of
outlots.
   (E)   In general, measures of protection shall include design solutions
which allow construction and grading involving a minimum of alteration to
sensitive areas. Where these areas are to be incorporated into lots within the
proposed subdivision, the subdivider shall be required to demonstrate that the
proposed design will not require construction on slopes over 18% or result in
significant alteration to the natural drainage system such that adverse impacts
cannot be contained within the plat boundary.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.077 SHORELAND AREAS.
   (A)   Land suitability. Each lot created through subdivision, including
planned unit developments authorized under §§
154.27 through
154.33 of the zoning ordinance, must be suitable in its natural state for the
proposed use with minimal alteration. Suitability analysis by the local unit of
government shall consider susceptibility to flooding, existence of wetlands,
soil and rock formations with severe limitations for development, severe
erosion potential, steep topography, inadequate water supply or sewage
treatment capabilities, near-shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water-
based recreation, important fish and wildlife habitat, presence of significant
historic sites, or any other feature of the natural land likely to be harmful
to the health, safety, or welfare of future residents of the proposed
subdivision of the community.
   (B)   Consistency with other controls. Subdivisions must conform to all
official controls of this community. A subdivision will not be approved where a
later variance from one or more standards in official controls would be needed
to use the lots for their intended purpose. In areas not served by publicly
owned sewer and water systems, a subdivision will not be approved unless
domestic water supply is available and a sewage treatment system consistent
with Chapter 51 of this code can be provided for every lot. Each lot shall meet
the minimum lot size and dimensional requirements of §§
154.27 through
154.33, including at least a minimum contiguous lawn area, that is free of
limiting factors sufficient for the construction of two standard soil treatment
systems. Lots that would require use of holding tanks must not be approved.
   (C)   Information requirements. Sufficient information must be submitted by
the applicant for the community to make a determination of land suitability.
The information shall include at least the following:
      (1)   Topographic contours at ten-foot intervals or less from United
States Geological Survey maps or more accurate sources, showing limited site
characteristics;
      (2)   The surface water features as may be required by law, to be shown
on plats, obtained from United States Geological Survey quadrangle topographic
maps or more accurate sources;
      (3)   Adequate soils information to determine suitability for building
and on-site sewage treatment capabilities for every lot from the most current
existing sources or from field investigations such as soil borings, percolation
tests, or other methods;
      (4)   Information regarding adequacy of domestic water supply; extent of
anticipated vegetation and topographic alterations; near-shore aquatic
conditions, including depths, types of bottom sediments, and aquatic
vegetation; and proposed methods for controlling stormwater runoff and erosion,
both during and after construction activities;
      (5)   Location of 100-year flood plain areas and floodway districts from
existing adopted maps or data; and
      (6)   A line or contour representing the ordinary high water level, the
“toe” and the “top” of bluffs, and the minimum building setback distances from
the top of the bluff and the lake or streams.
   (D)   Dedications. When a land or easement dedication is a condition of
subdivision approval, the approval must provide easements over natural drainage
or ponding areas for management of storm water and significant wetlands.
   (E)   Platting. All subdivisions that create five or more lots or parcels
that are two and one-half acres or less in size shall be processed as a plat in
accordance with M.S. Chapter 505, as it may be amended from time to time. No
permit for zoning or sewage treatment systems shall be issued for lots created
after these official controls were enacted unless the lot was approved as part
of a normal subdivision.
   (F)   Controlled access or recreational lots. Lots intended as controlled
accesses to public waters or for recreational use areas for use by nonriparian
lots within a subdivision must meet or exceed the sizing criteria in §§
154.27 through
154.33 of the zoning ordinance. Prior to approval of any subdivision with such
access lots the subdivider shall provide written notice to the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources and shall obtain written approval from that
agency for such lots.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
REQUIRED BASIC IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.090 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Approval.
      (1)   Before a final plat may be approved by the City Council, the owner
shall execute and submit to the Council an agreement, which shall be binding on
his or her (or their) heirs, personal representatives and assigns, that he
shall cause no private construction on said land except with approval of the
City Engineer, until all improvements required under this chapter have been
petitioned for, arranged for, or have been constructed.
      (2)   No final plat shall be approved by the Council without first
receiving a report from the City Engineer certifying that the improvements
described herein, together with the agreements and documents required herein
have been constructed and meet the minimum requirements of all applicable
ordinances. In the alternative, the owner may deposit with the City Clerk-
Treasurer a sum of money equal to one and one fourth times the estimate of the
cost of such required improvements, either in cash or indemnity bond, with
sureties satisfactory to the city, conditioned upon the payment of all
construction costs incurred in making of such improvements and all expenses
incurred by the city for engineering and legal fees and other expenses in
connection with the making of such improvements and conditioned upon completion
of all such improvements within 12 months of final plat approval.
      (3)   A certified copy of the plat restrictions shall be filed with the
City Clerk-Treasurer and County Recorder which shall include a provision that,
in all instruments of sale or conveyance given before all street improvements
have been made, the grantee shall agree to and approve such improvements and
the assessment of their cost.
   (B)   City financing. Upon recommendation of the City Engineer and with the
approval of the City Council, any or all of the required improvements may be
financed and assessed by the city pursuant to M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be
amended from time to time. Length of assessment period and rate of interest
shall be as determined by the City Council.
   (C)   Financing by developer. If deemed advisable and to be in the best
interests of the city, the City Council may require the developer to finance
and pay for any or all improvements. Prior to the making of such required
improvements, the owner or subdivider shall deposit with the City Clerk-
Treasurer an amount equal to one and one-fourth times the City Engineer’s
estimated cost of any or all such improvements which are to be financed by the
developer, either in cash or an indemnity bond, with sureties to the
satisfaction of the city, conditioned upon the payment of all construction
costs incurred in making such improvements and all expense incurred by the city
for engineering and legal fees and other expense in connection with the making
of such improvements. All improvements shall be constructed in accordance with
the design and standards approved by the City Engineer and consistent with city
ordinances and state law within 12 months of the date of final plat approval.
The subdivider shall reimburse the city for all expense incurred by the city
for engineering, legal fees, and other expense in connection with such
improvements.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.091 IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following improvements shall be constructed as provided for in this
section. Programming of improvements shall be approved by the City Engineer.
   (A)   Improvements to meet city specifications. The city will construct,
furnish, and install the following improvements according to city
specification.
      (1)   Street lighting. Street lighting shall be constructed by the city,
preferably after curb and gutter have been installed. If additional or other
type of lighting is desired by the developer, he or she shall pay the increased
cost thereof.
      (2)   Signs. Street name signs and traffic control signs shall be
installed by the city.
   (B)   Obligation of developer. The developer shall pay the proportionate
amount of the following improvements on or for his or her subdivision or
development. Financing shall be according to §
153.090.
      (1)   Site grading. Necessary site grading shall be accomplished by the
subdivider.
      (2)   Street grading. Streets shall be graded for the total width of the
right-of-way and to the elevations as established by the City Engineer. A
minimum of four inches of granular base material shall be applied to a width of
40 feet. More base material should be applied if required to stabilize the
roadbed.
      (3)   Street improvements.
         (a)   Street improvements consisting of base material; curb and gutter
storm water inlets and leads; and paving shall be constructed in accordance
with plans as prepared by, and under the supervision of the City Engineer.
         (b)   Temporary construction may, at the discretion of the City
Engineer, be required, for just cause, on any street, streets, or portion
thereof. Reconstruction or alteration in any way of existing streets affected
by the plat or improvements thereupon shall be subject to the approval of the
City Engineer. All costs therein shall be borne by the owner or subdivider.
Half streets, if accepted, shall be improved as directed by the City Engineer.
      (4)   Sanitary sewer. Where sanitary sewer is or will be available at the
boundary of the subdivision, it shall be constructed in accordance with plans
as prepared by and under the supervision of the City Engineer. The cost of any
required pumping station, deemed necessary by the Engineer shall be assessed
against the benefiting property. Where it is neither practical nor economical
for the city to extend city sewer, private sewage disposal facilities shall be
constructed according to city and state specifications. Consideration shall be
given to future availability of city sewer in such installations. Such
information shall be recorded on the plat and in deed so affected.
      (5)   Watermain. Where city water is or will be available at the boundary
of the subdivision, it shall be constructed in accordance with plans as
prepared by and under the supervision of the City Engineer. Where it is neither
practical nor economical for the city to extend city water, private water
supplies shall be constructed according to city and state specifications.
      (6)   Trees and shrubs. Boulevard trees and shrubs are not permitted.
      (7)   Storm sewer. Storm sewer mains will be constructed according to
city specifications. Connection shall be made at the boundary of the
subdivision, if available, or to some other approved discharge outlet. The
developer shall secure or provide the necessary easements or discharge permits.
This requirement shall not prevent the city from acquiring necessary easements
by eminent domain. Any costs for such easements shall be borne by the
developer.
   (C)   Parks and open space criteria.
      (1)   Dedication of parks and recreational land for residential areas. 
         (a)   Upon request of the City Council, in consideration of the
particular type of residential development proposed, the subdivider shall be
required to dedicate and deed to the city such areas of a character, extent,
and location suitable to the needs created by such development for park and
other recreational purposes. It is hereby found and declared that at the time
of platting it is reasonable to require an amount of land equal to 6% of the
land proposed to be subdivided for parks and recreation purposes.
         (b)   As an alternative, if the land proposed for dedication does not
meet the needs of the area, the City Council may require the subdivider to pay
in cash an amount equal to 6% of the fair market value of the undeveloped land
as defined in these regulations in lieu of the dedication of the land. The fair
market value shall be determined by the City Assessor’s office. For purposes of
this section only, undeveloped land shall be defined as bare, platted land
after utilities, streets, and other normal improvements are in place. The cash
payment shall be used for the purchase of the land or the development of
existing or future parks and playgrounds in the same general area. When land is
dedicated and deeded to the city for park purposes, it shall be the
responsibility of the City Parks Department to maintain such dedicated
property.
      (2)   Dedication of storm water holding areas or ponds. Upon
recommendation of the City Engineer and approval by the City Council, the
subdivider may be required to dedicate to the public up to 6% of the land
proposed to be subdivided for storm water holding areas or ponds. The 6%
dedication shall not be considered in addition to the 6% dedicated for parks
and recreation purposes as it relates to residential subdivisions.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
NONPLATTED SUBDIVISION
§ 153.105 REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS.
   It is the intention of this chapter that all registered land surveys in the
city should be presented to the City Council in the form of a preliminary plat
in accordance with the standards set forth in this chapter for preliminary
plats and that the City Council shall first approve the arrangement, sizes, and
relationships of proposed tracts in such registered land surveys and that
tracts to be used as easements or roads should be so dedicated. Unless approval
has been obtained from the City Council in accordance with the standards set
forth in this chapter, zoning permits will be withheld on tracts which have
been so subdivided by registered land surveys and the city may refuse to take
over tracts as streets or roads to improve, repair, or maintain any such tracts
unless so approved.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.106 CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS.
   No division of one or more parcels in which the land conveyed is described
by metes and bounds shall be made or recorded if the parcels described in the
conveyance are five acres or less in area and 300 feet or less in width on the
shortest side unless such parcel was a separate parcel or record at the
effective date of this chapter. Zoning permits will be withheld for tracts
which have been subdivided and conveyed by this method and the city may refuse
to take over tracts as streets or roads or to improve, repair, or maintain any
such tracts.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
VARIANCES, RECOMMENDATIONS, STANDARDS
§ 153.120 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The City Council may grant a variance from the minimum standards of
this chapter (not procedural provisions) when, in its opinion, undue hardship
may result from strict compliance. In granting any variance, the City Council
shall prescribe any conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable for the
public interest. The City Council shall take into account the nature of the
proposed use of land and the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number
of persons to reside or work in the proposed subdivision and the probable
effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity.
   (B)   A variance shall only be granted when the City Council finds:
      (1)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
      (2)   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety, and welfare or injurious to other property in the
territory in which property is situated; and/or
      (3)   That the variance is to correct inequities resulting from an
extreme physical hardship such as topography, and the like
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.121 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Requests for a variance or appeal shall be filed with the City Clerk-
Treasurer on an official application form. Such application shall be
accompanied by a fee as established by City Council resolution. Such
application shall also be accompanied by ten copies of detailed written and
graphic materials necessary to the explanation of the request.
   (B)   Upon receiving said application, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall refer
the application, along with all related information, to the City Council.
   (C)   The City Council shall consider the variance at its next regular
meeting unless the filing date falls within 15 days of said meeting, in which
case the request would be placed on the agenda and considered at the regular
meeting following the next regular meeting.
   (D)   The applicant or a representative thereof shall appear before the City
Council in order to answer questions concerning the proposed variance request.
   (E)   The variance application shall be referred to the city staff and City
Engineer for a report and recommendation to be presented to the City Council. A
preliminary draft of report and recommendation shall be given to the City
Council at least seven days prior to the meeting in which said report and
recommendations are to be presented. The final report and recommendations to
the are to be entered in and made part of the permanent written record of the
City Council meeting.
   (F)   The city staff and City Engineer shall have the authority to request
additional information from the applicant concerning the variance or to retain
expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of the applicant
concerning said variance where said information is declared necessary to insure
preservation of health, safety, and general welfare.
   (G)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall set a date for a public hearing. Notice
of such hearing shall be published in the official newspaper at least ten days
prior to said hearing and individual notices shall be mailed not less than ten
days nor more than 30 days prior to the hearing to all owners of property
within 150 feet of the parcel included in the request, excluding roadways.
   (H)   Failure of a property owner to receive said notice shall not
invalidate any such proceedings as set forth within this chapter.
   (I)   The City Council shall make findings of fact and establish such
conditions relating to the request as they deem necessary to carry out the
intent and purpose of this chapter and to protect the public health, safety,
and welfare.
   (J)   The City Council shall decide whether to approve or deny a request for
a variance or an appeal within 30 days after the public hearing on said
request.
   (K)   A variance of this chapter or grant of an appeal shall be by majority
of the full City Council.
   (L)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the originator of the variance
request or appeal of the City Council’s decision in writing.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense punishable by a fine of not more than $700 or by a commitment to jail
for a period not to exceed 90 days. Each month during which compliance is
delayed shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 4-11-2005)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Compliance required
   
154.02   More restrictive conditions prevail
   
154.03   Uses not provided for
   
154.04   Severability
   
154.05   Word use
   
154.06   Definitions
   
154.07   Amendments
   
154.08   City objective
   
154.09   Land suitability
   
154.10   Conditionally permitted uses
Zoning Districts and Regulations
   
154.25   Zoning districts designated
   
154.26   Zoning district map
   
154.27   A-1 Agricultural District
   
154.28   R-1 Single-Family Residential District
   
154.29   R-2 Multi-Family Residential District
   
154.30   C-1 General Commercial District
   
154.31   C-2 Highway Commercial District
   
154.32   I-1 Industrial District
   
154.33   PD-1 Planned Development District
Special Provisions
   
154.45   Non-conforming uses
   
154.46   Off-street parking
   
154.47   Signs
   
154.48   Accessory buildings in rear yard
   
154.49   Front yard adjustments
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.60   Organization
   
154.61   Code Administrator
   
154.62   Board of Adjustment and Appeals
   
154.63   Zoning district amendments
   
154.64   Conditional use permits
   
154.65   Variances
   
154.66   Action of the City Council
 
   
154.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: List of Uses by District
   
Appendix B: Zoning Map
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No building, structure, or premises shall hereafter be used or occupied and
no structure or part thereof shall hereafter be located, erected, moved,
reconstructed, extended, enlarged, or converted without a zoning permit and
shall be in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 154.02 MORE RESTRICTIVE CONDITIONS PREVAIL.
   Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this chapter are either
more or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by other ordinance,
rule, or regulation of the city, the ordinance, rule, or regulation which
imposes the more restrictive condition, standard, or requirement shall prevail.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.03 USES NOT PROVIDED FOR.
   Whenever, in any zoning district a use is neither specifically permitted nor
denied, the use shall be considered prohibited. In such case, the City Council,
on its own initiative or upon request, may conduct a study to determine if the
use is acceptable and if so, may initiate an amendment to the zoning ordinance
to provide for the particular use under consideration or may find that the use
is not compatible for development within the city.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 154.04 SEVERABILITY.
   If any part, provision, or portion of this chapter is adjudged invalid by a
court of legal jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be
affected.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 154.05 WORD USE.
   In construction of this chapter, the rules and definitions contained in this
section shall be observed and applied except when the context clearly indicates
otherwise.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future.
   (B)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number and
the plural, the singular.
   (C)   SHALL is a mandatory word.
   (D)   MAY is a permissive word.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 154.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING AND USES. A subordinate building or portion of the main
building, the use of which is clearly incidental to and serves exclusively the
principal building or principal use. The accessory building or use shall be
located on the same zoning lot.
   AGRICULTURE. The process of producing food and fiber including but not
limited to the land, facilities, structures, and buildings for operation and
maintenance thereof.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple dwelling used for human
occupancy.
   BASEMENT. A story, partly underground, with more than one-half of its height
below grade.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN. A building of residential design, or portion thereof,
where short-term lodging and meals are provided. The operator of the inn shall
live on the premises or in adjacent premises.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for shelter, housing, business,
office, and accommodation of persons, animals, chattels, or property.
   BUILDING AREA. The portion of the zoning lot that can be occupied by the
principal use, excluding the front, rear, and side yards.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point
of the roof.
   BUILDING LINE. A line establishing the minimum distance that structures may
be placed from the lot lines or street right-of-way. For the purposes of this
chapter the BUILDING LINE is the same as set-back line.
   BUILDING PRINCIPAL. A building in which the principal use of the property
occurs.
   BUILDING WIDTH. The horizontal distance between two exterior comers of a
principal building when measured on the narrowest side.
   CANNABIS. The words and phrases and definitions contained in Ch. 114 of this
Code and M.S. § 342.01, and the rules promulgated pursuant to any of these
acts, shall have the same meanings in this section.
   CITY. The City of Lake Park, Minnesota.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Lake Park, Minnesota, a legally
constituted body under Minnesota Statute.
   CLUB or LODGE. A private club or lodge which is a non-profit association of
persons for the purpose of gatherings and entertaining members including
consumption of food and beverages.
   CONDITIONAL USE. Use of a special nature not automatically permitted in a
zoning district and which requires review and approval of the City Council
after a public hearing subject to the provisions of §
154.64.
   CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building or structure which complies
with all requirements of this chapter and other regulations adopted by the City
Council.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A document including maps and data for physical
development of an area as provided by §
154.32(D) of this chapter.
   DISTRICT. A section or sections of the city for which regulations governing
the use of building and premises, the building heights, size of yards, lot
area, lot width, and the use are uniform.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof, used exclusively for human
habitation including single-family and multiple-family units but not including
hotels or motels.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A single building or portion thereof containing two
or more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building containing one dwelling unit only.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building containing two dwelling units only.
   ENCROACHMENT. Any fill, building, structure, or use projecting into the
required yard areas or onto public or property.
   ESTABLISHMENT. A place of business for processing, production, assembly,
sales, or service of goods and materials.
   FAMILY. Two or more persons occupying a dwelling unit.
   FLOOR AREA. The total square footage of the floor space within the exterior
walls of a building. For the purposes of this chapter, the AREA shall be
calculated using the exterior measurements of the building.
   FRONTAGE. The front part of a lot abutting a public right-of-way, street, or
highway.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or portion of a principal building
designed for storage of personal vehicles.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building, or portion thereof, designed and used for
repair, maintenance, sale, service, and storage of vehicles.
   GRADE. The land elevation at the horizontal intersection of the ground and
the building.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation carried on in a dwelling unit by a member or
members of the family and which meets these requirements:
      (1)   No such home occupation shall require substantial interior or
exterior alterations of the dwelling which would vary the residential character
of the buildings;
      (2)   The occupation is conducted within the principal building and not
in an accessory building;
      (3)   No stock-in-trade is kept or commodities sold other than those
produced on the premises;
      (4)   No more than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling is devoted to
such home occupation;
      (5)   There is no outside storage of equipment and not more than two
additional persons outside the family are engaged in such occupation;
      (6)   The occupation shall not create odor, dust, noise, or other
disturbances noticeable outside the dwelling;
      (7)   No sign shall be allowed other than one non-illuminated, and
mounted flat against the wall of the principal building; and
      (8)   The need for any additional parking generated by the conduct of the
HOME OCCUPATION shall be met by off-street parking subject to the provisions of
§
154.46(B).
   LODGING HOUSE. A residential building, or portion thereof, which
accommodates three or more unrelated persons with meal privileges.
   LOT. A piece, parcel, or area of land of continuous assemblage established
by survey, plat, or deed.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot having frontage on two intersecting streets. If no
previous designation has been made, prior to any new construction upon any
corner lot the owner shall designate and deliver to the city in writing the
front, rear, and side lot lines of the lot, which designation shall govern for
all purposes in the future.
   LOT, DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line.
   LOT AREA. The ground area within the lot lines.
   LOT LINES. The property lines bounding the lot.
      (1)   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary line of a lot adjacent to the public
street right-of-way. On a lot adjacent to two public streets at opposite ends,
both lot lines adjacent to the public street rights-of-way are the FRONT LOT
LINES and there shall be no rear lot line.
      (2)   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary line of a lot opposite to the front
lot line. On a lot adjacent to two public streets at opposite ends, both lot
lines adjacent to the public street right-of-ways are the front lot lines and
there shall be no REAR LOT LINE.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. The boundary line of a lot which is not otherwise defined as
front or rear lot lines.
   LOT, WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot
measured at the front building setback line.
   LOT, ZONING. One or more contiguous lots or parcels owned by the same or
related parties or entities, developed into a unified tract of land that is
dedicated to a single zoning use.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or
more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems
contained therein; except that the term includes any structure which meets all
the requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification and complies with the standards established by the state.
   MOBILE HOME. A manufactured trailer or dwelling unit intended for family
residential occupancy.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A lot or parcel of land platted or planned to accommodate a
mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land of not less than three acres of land,
which is licensed by the state and for which a detailed plan indicating the
location of lots, blocks, streets, facilities, and utilities exists subject to
the requirements of §
154.29(B)(5).
   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING/USE. Any building, or use of land or building, which
does not comply with any or all parts of this chapter.
   PARKING , OFF-STREET. One or more spaces set aside on private land, with
direct access from street or alley not less than nine feet wide and 20 feet
long, exclusive of passage ways.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. Concrete or wood frost footings, a floating concrete
slab, a concrete slab with concrete footings at least 16 inches deep, or posts
buried four feet into the ground and partially encased in concrete up to at
least one foot from the bottom of the post.
   PERMITTED USES. Those uses, buildings, or structures which comply with the
provisions of specific zoning districts. PERMITTED USES are distinct from
conditional uses which are authorized only if certain requirements of these
provisions are met after a public hearing and approval by the City Council.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership or legal entity.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A grouping of buildings and structures on a site of
three or more acres in single ownership which is not limited by the yard or
building height limitations but is based on a detailed development plan and
recorded with the County Recorder upon approval by the City Council and meets
all requirements of §§
154.27 through
154.33.
   PUBLIC ROADWAY or PUBLIC WAY. Any dedicated and/or recorded rights-of-way
including alleys, sidewalks, streets, roads, or highways.
   SIGN. Any emblem, name identification, description or illustration which is
used for outdoor advertising having permanent location on the ground, or
attached to, or painted on a building, including bulletin boards, billboards,
and poster boards, but excluding real estate “for sale” signs, political
campaign signs, public information and traffic signs.
   SITE PLAN. A detailed plan for making improvements to a parcel of land for
the purpose of building and development.
   STREET. A public or private right-of-way which affords the principal means
of access to abutting property.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting elements of a building
or structure including bearing elements, partitions, columns, beams, girders,
roofs, exterior walls, and embankment.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected; the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground including advertising signs and billboards.
   USE. The purpose for which land or premises or a building thereon is
designed or arranged, or for which it is, or may be occupied or maintained.
   VARIANCE. The relaxation of the terms of the ordinance in relationship to
building height, size of the front, rear, and side yards, where the literal
enforcement of this chapter could create unreasonable hardship, but it is not
contrary to the purposes of this chapter. A VARIANCE may not be granted for any
use not permitted under this chapter for property in the zone where the
affected land is located.
   YARD. An open space on the zoning lot which is unoccupied or unobstructed by
any portion of a structure from the ground upward.
   YARD, FRONT. An open space extending across the front of the lot between the
side lot lines and extending from the front lot line to the nearest line of a
principal building.
   YARD, REAR. An open space extending across the rear of the lot between the
side lot lines and extending from the rear lot line to the nearest line of a
building.
   YARD, SIDE. An open space between the side line of the lot and the nearest
line of a building and extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998; Ord. 19-14, passed 12-9-2002; Ord. 19-16, passed
2-13-2006; Ord. 25-401, passed 5-12-2025)
§ 154.07 AMENDMENTS.
   The City Council may, from time to time, amend, supplement, or repeal any
part of this chapter after a public notice and hearing.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 154.08 CITY OBJECTIVE.
   This chapter is administered and enforced to achieve the following
objectives within the corporate limits of the city:
   (A)   To promote the orderly development of residential, commercial,
industrial areas in the city;
   (B)   To conserve and enhance the taxable value of land and buildings by
protecting residential, commercial, and industrial areas from harmfu1
encroachment by incompatible uses;
   (C)   To minimize the expenditure of public funds through selecting cost-
effective alternatives for the expansion of public facilities and utilities;
and
   (D)   To control the density of population and faci1itate traffic movement
within the city.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 154.09 LAND SUITABILITY.
   No land shall be used for a purpose which is held unsuitable by reason of
flooding, soil limitations, inadequate drainage, incompatibility with adjoining
uses, or any condition likely to be harmfu1 to the health, safety, or the
welfare of the people in the area. The City Council may require information and
data to determine the land suitability. The City Council may consult with
county and state agencies to assist in its determination.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 154.10 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   Where a use is classified as a conditional use under this chapter and exists
at the date of adoption of this chapter, it shall be considered a permitted
use. Where a use is not allowed as a conditional use or permitted use under
this chapter and exists at the date of adoption of this chapter, it shall be
considered non-conforming and shall be subject to the non-conforming buildings
and use provisions of §
154.45.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND REGULATIONS
§ 154.25 ZONING DISTRICTS DESIGNATED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the city is divided into zoning districts
as shown on the accompanying map (see Appendix B) entitled “Zoning Map of Lake
Park, Minn.” which map is hereby made a part of this chapter. These districts
are as follows:
   (A)   A-1 Agricultural District;
   (B)   R-1 Single-Family Residential District;
   (C)   R-2 Multi-Family Residential District;
   (D)   C-1 General Commercial District;
   (E)   C-2 Highway Commercial District;
   (F)   I-1 Industrial District; and
   (G)   PD-1 Planned Development District.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 154.26 ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   (A)   Public streets as boundary. Where zoning district boundary lines are
indicated as following streets and public ways or extensions thereof, such
boundary lines shall be construed to be the centerline of said streets or
public ways or extension thereof unless clearly shown to the contrary.
   (B)   Lot line as boundary. Where a zoning district boundary line coincides
approximately but not exactly with the lot line, the zoning boundary shall be
construed to be the lot line at that location. All section lines, quarter
section lines and quarter, quarter section lines may be construed as the
property lines.
   (C)   District description for unsubdivided lands. For unsubdivided
property, zoning district boundaries are determined by metes and bounds
description or by a legal description as deemed necessary.
   (D)   Zoning district boundary interpretation. Where any uncertainty exists
as to the exact location cf the zoning district boundary lines, the City
Council shall determine the location of such boundary lines.
   (E)   Annexation of land. Any land annexed to the city in the future shall
be placed in the A-1 Agricultural District, unless the area is targeted and
scheduled for development in which case the area shall be placed in the
appropriate zoning district subject to the district changes and amendments
provided in this chapter.
   (F)   Certification. The official zoning map shall bear the signature of the
Mayor, certification by the City Clerk-Treasurer, and date of adoption of the
zoning map as an integral part of this chapter.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 154.27 A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to provide for preservation
and protection of agricultural uses existing within the city limits.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agricultural uses subject to Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
standards, but not including commercial feed lots or other commercial
operations;
      (2)   Accessory buildings and structures;
      (3)   Churches and cemeteries;
      (4)   Golf courses, parks, and play fields;
      (5)   Schools, public buildings and facilities;
      (6)   Single-family dwellings, including:
         (a)   Manufactured home units installed on a permanent foundation or
basement: and
         (b)   Home occupations.
      (7)   Stock-piling of sand and gravel for road construction and
maintenance;
      (8)   Construction and maintenance of drainage systems to manage the
water run-off and water reservoirs; and
      (9)   Utility lines and pipe lines including substations for
transformers, pumping stations, and lift stations.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   High voltage transmission lines and accessory structures;
      (2)   Manufacturing and processing of agricultural products produced in
the area but not including rendering plants and fertilizer plants;
      (3)   Radio, TV stations, and towers;
      (4)   Sewage lagoons and wastewater treatment facilities; and
      (5)   Veterinary clinics, animal hospitals, and domestic animal kennels
which are not nearer than 1,000 feet from any residence except that of the
owner or operator.
   (D)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Lot area.
         (a)   For agricultural uses: ten acres.
         (b)   For non-farm residential uses: two acres.
         (c)   For non-residential uses: five acres.
      (2)   Lot width. Lot width for any use in the agricultural district shall
not be less than 250 feet.
   (E)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Front yard. Fifty feet except where adjacent structures have front
yard setbacks different from those required, the front yard minimum setback
shall be the average of the adjacent structures. If there is only one adjacent
structure, the front yard minimum setback shall be the average of the above
required setback and that of the adjacent structure.
      (2)   Rear yard. Fifty feet.
      (3)   Side yard. Ten percent of the lot width, except for corner lots,
see division (E)(4) below.
      (4)   Corner lots. If no previous designation has been made, prior to any
new construction upon any corner lot the owner shall designate and deliver to
the city in writing the front, rear, and side lot lines of the lot, which
designation shall govern for all purposes in the future.
         (a)   Front yard. Fifty feet except where adjacent structures have
front yard setbacks different from those required, the front yard minimum
setback shall be the average of the adjacent structures. If there is only one
adjacent structure, the front yard minimum setback shall be the average of the
above required setback and that of the adjacent structure.
         (b)   Rear yard: Fifty feet.
         (c)   Side yard: Ten percent of the lot width from the side lot line
not abutting upon a street or public right-of-way, 20% of the lot width from
the side lot line abutting upon a street or public right-of-way.
   (F)   Building requirements.
      (1)   Building height.
         (a)   Shall not exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet except for
church steeples, farm-related and communication structures.
         (b)   Shall be determined by the City Council for agriculturally-
related uses.
      (2)   Building width. For residential uses shall be a minimum of 24 feet.
      (3)   Floor area for residential uses shall be a minimum of:
         (a)   One- and two-bedroom dwellings: 850 square feet.
         (b)   Three-bedroom dwelling: 1,000 square feet.
         (c)   Four-or more bedroom dwelling: 1,200 square feet.
      (4)   Foundation. All buildings shall be placed on a permanent foundation
except for accessory buildings with a footprint of less than 120 square feet.
   (G)   Parking requirements. For non-farm uses, the provisions of §
154.46 shall apply.
   (H)   Sign requirements. Sign requirements shall be subject to the
provisions of §
154.47.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998; Ord. 19-15, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 19-16, passed
2-13-2006)
§ 154.28 R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-l Single-Family Residential District is established to
promote a suitable residential environment and to accommodate low density
residential units uninterrupted by conflicting uses and incompatible
activities.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family and two-family dwellings;
      (2)   Accessory bui1dings and structures;
      (3)   Churches, schools, and public related facilities;
      (4)   Day care facilities subject to the requirements of the state and
conducted in single-family or two-family dwellings;
      (5)   Golf courses;
      (6)   Home occupations;
      (7)   Parks, playgrounds, and open spaces; and
      (8)   Manufactured home units installed on a permanent foundation or
basement.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Condominiums;
      (2)   Convalescent and nursing homes;
      (3)   Hospitals and clinics excluding veterinary clinics; and
      (4)   Public and private utilities and structures including overhead and
underground wires and pipelines.
   (D)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Lot area.
         (a)   For residential units.
            1.   Single-family dwellings: 7,500 square feet.
            2.   Two-family dwellings: 11,000 square feet.
         (b)   For existing non-residential uses no minimum lot area is
required. For new uses, the City Council shall make a determination of needs
subject to the provisions of division (D)(3) below.
      (2)   Lot width.
         (a)   Single-family dwellings: 60 feet.
         (b)   Two-family dwellings: 90 feet.
         (c)   Corner lots: 70 feet.
      (3)   Lot coverage (including accessory uses): not exceeding 50%.
   (E)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Front yard: 30 feet except where adjacent structures have front
yard setbacks different from those required, the front yard minimum setback
shall be the average of the adjacent structures. If there is only one adjacent
structure, the front yard minimum setback shall be the average of the above
required setback and that of the adjacent structure.
      (2)   Rear yard: 40 feet.
      (3)   Side yard: 10% of the lot width, except for corner lots, (see
division (E)(4) below).
      (4)   Corner lots: If no previous designation has been made, prior to any
new construction upon any corner lot, the owner shall designate and deliver to
the city, in writing, the front, rear and side lot lines of the lot, which
designation shall govern for all purposes in the future.
         (a)   Front yard: 30 feet, except where adjacent structures have front
yard setbacks different from those required, the front yard minimum setback
shall be the average of the adjacent structures. If there is only one adjacent
structure, the front yard minimum setback shall be the average of the above
required setback and that of the adjacent structure.
         (b)   Rear yard: 40 feet.
         (c)   Side yard: 10% of the lot width from the side lot line not
abutting upon a street or public right-of-way. Twenty percent of the lot width
from the side lot line abutting upon a street or public right-of-way.
   (F)   Building requirements.
      (1)   Building height.
         (a)   Principal buildings shall not exceed two and one-half stories or
35 feet except for church steeples and institutional buildings approved by the
City Counci1.
         (b)   Accessory buildings which are separated from the principal
building but are located on the same zoning lot shall not exceed ten feet when
measured from the grade level to the lowest point of the roof.
      (2)   Building width. The building width for residential uses shall be a
minimum of 24 feet.
      (3)   Floor area (of main structure).
         (a)   One and two-bedroom dwellings: 850 square feet.
         (b)   Three-bedroom dwelling: 1,000 square feet.
         (c)   Four or more bedroom dwelling: 1,200 square feet.
      (4)   Foundation. All buildings shall be placed on a permanent foundation
except for accessory buildings of less than 120 square feet.
      (5)   Building number. There shall be no more than three buildings
located on any residential zoning lot, including the dwelling, the garage, and
accessory buildings. If the dwelling is constructed with an attached garage,
there may be two additional accessory structures.
   (G)   Parking requirements.
      (1)   For residential dwellings: two off-street parking spaces for each
residential dwelling unit.
      (2)   For conditional uses and non-residential uses, the requirements of
§
154.46 shall apply.
   (H)   Sign requirements.
      (1)   There shall be no more than one identification sign per residential
dwelling structure, such sign not to exceed five square feet in area. The sign
may be wall pedestal, ground, or projecting type but it shall not project into
the public right-of-way or public property.
      (2)   Temporary signs including “For Sale,” “For Rent,” political
campaign signs, greeting signs, and rally signs are permitted.
      (3)   For non-residential uses, the provisions of §
154.47 shal1 apply.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998; Ord. 19-10, passed 10-12-1998; Ord. 19-14, passed
12-9-2002; Ord. 19-16, passed 2-13-2006; Ord. 2018-01, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 154.29 R-2 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-2 Multi-Family Residential District is established to
promote a suitable environment to accommodate residential neighborhoods largely
consisting of dwelling units.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All permitted uses and conditional uses listed in the R-1 District;
      (2)   Multi-family dwellings for any number of families or housekeeping
units;
      (3)   Bed and breakfast inns;
      (4)   Boarding and lodging houses; and
      (5)   Mobile home parks subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   A site plan showing location of streets, utilities, off-street
parking, driveways, walkways, blocks, lots, playground and park areas;
         (b)   Each mobile home shall be placed on a lot at least 50 feet wide
with a minimum area of 5,000 square feet;
         (c)   Each unit shall be firmly anchored to prevent accidental
movement or overturning;
         (d)   Each unit shall have a minimum setback of 20 feet within the
parks and 30 feet from the public streets and shall have a minimum side yard of
ten feet and rear yard of 20 feet;
         (e)   The design and construction of the private streets within the
park shall conform to the design standards used by the city;
         (f)   All units shall be served by underground utilities unless waived
by the City Council; and
         (g)   Two off-street parking spaces per unit.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Highway maintenance shops; and
      (2)   Public and private utilities and structures including water and
wastewater treatment facilities, and overhead and underground wires and
pipelines.
   (D)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Lot area.
         (a)   For residential uses:
            1.   Single-family dwellings: 6,000 square feet.
            2.   Two-family dwellings: 8,000 square feet.
            3.   Multi-family dwellings: 2,500 square feet for each unit
excluding the yard requirements.
         (b)   For non-residential uses: 20,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width.
         (a)   Single-family dwellings: 50 feet.
         (b)   Two-family dwellings: 60 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family dwellings: 75 feet.
         (d)   Non-residential uses: 100 feet.
      (3)   Lot coverage. Including accessory uses: not exceeding 50%.
   (E)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Front yard: 30 feet except where adjacent structures have front
yard setbacks different from those required, the front yard minimum setback
shall be the average of the adjacent structures. If there is only one adjacent
structure, the front yard minimum setback shall be the average of the above
required setback and that of the adjacent structure.
      (2)   Rear yard: 40 feet.
      (3)   Side yard: 10% of the lot width, except for corner lots (see
division (E)(4) below).
      (4)   Corner lots: If no previous designation has been made, prior to any
new construction upon any corner lot, the owner shall designate and deliver to
the city, in writing, the front, rear, and side lot lines of the lot, which
designation shall govern for all purposes in the future.
         (a)   Front yard: 30 feet, except where adjacent structures have front
yard setbacks different from those required, the front yard minimum setback
shall be the average of the adjacent structures. If there is only one adjacent
structure, the front yard minimum setback shall be the average of the above
required setback and that of the adjacent structure.
         (b)   Rear yard: 40 feet.
         (c)   Side yard: 10% of the lot width from the side lot line not
abutting upon a street or public right-of-way, 20% of the lot width from the
side lot line abutting upon a street or public right-of-way.
   (F)   Building requirements.
      (1)   Building height.
         (a)   Principal buildings shall not exceed four stories or 45 feet
excepting church steeples and communication antennas.
         (b)   Accessory buildings which are separated from the principal
building but are located on the same zoning lot shall not exceed ten feet when
measured from the grade level to the lowest point of the roof.
      (2)   Building width. The building width for residential uses shall be a
minimum of 24 feet.
      (3)   Floor area for residential uses. Floor area shall be a minimum of:
         (a)   One-bedroom units: 520 square feet; and
         (b)   Two- or more bedroom units: 720 square feet plus 100 square feet
for each additional bedroom over two.
      (4)   Foundation. All buildings shall be placed on a permanent foundation
except for accessory buildings with a footprint of less than 120 square feet.
      (5)   Building number. There shall be no more than three buildings
located on any residential zoning lot, including the dwelling, the garage, and
accessory buildings. If the dwelling is constructed with an attached garage,
there may be two additional accessory structures.
   (G)   Parking requirements.
      (1)   For residential dwellings: two off-street parking spaces for each
dwelling unit.
      (2)   For conditional uses and non-residential uses the provisions of §
154.46 shall apply.
   (H)   Sign requirements.
      (1)   Temporary signs including “For Sale,” “For Rent,” political
campaign signs, greeting signs, and rally signs are permitted.
      (2)   For residential dwellings there shall be no more than one
identification sign per dwelling structure not exceeding 12 square feet in
area. The sign may be wall, pedestal, ground, or projecting type but it shall
not project into the public right-of-way or public property.
      (3)   For non-residential uses the provisions of §
154.47 shall apply.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998; Ord. 19-14, passed 12-9-2002; Ord. 19-16, passed
2-13-2006; Ord. 2018-01, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 154.30 C-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The C-1 General Commercial District is primarily established
to accommodate a cohesive and compact range of retail, office, and commercial
uses traditionally found in the downtown area.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The uses permitted in the C-1 General Commercial
District consist primarily of retail uses and services, professional services
which serve the city and its neighborhood, but not including highway commercial
uses which because of the high traffic vo1ume or other characteristics are more
suited elsewhere.
      (1)   All permitted uses listed in §
154.29(B) of the R-2 District except for mobile home parks.
      (2)   The following retail and professional uses:
         (a)   Advertising signs and billboards;
         (b)   Amusement places including bowling alleys, pool halls, theaters,
and similar facilities;
         (c)   Antique shops, art and craft store;
         (d)   Bakeries and confectionaries;
         (e)   Banks and financial institutions;
         (f)   Bed and breakfast inns;
         (g)   Catering businesses;
         (h)   Clothing stores;
         (i)   Drug stores;
         (j)   Dry cleaning and laundromats;
         (k)   Flower shops;
         (l)   Fraternal and service organizations;
         (m)   Funeral homes;
         (n)   Grocery stores;
         (o)   Household appliance stores;
         (p)   Jewelry stores;
         (q)   Meat markets and lockers;
         (r)   Musical instruments sales and service;
         (s)   Optical, orthopedic and medical supply stores;
         (t)   Paint and wallpaper stores;
         (u)   Professional offices including, but not limited to medical and
dental offices; law offices; employment agencies; collection agencies; real
estate offices; travel agencies; utility companies; government buildings; and
the like;
         (v)   Restaurants;
         (w)   Service stations; and
         (x)   Non-commercial storage buildings.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   All conditional uses listed in §
154.29(C) of the R-2 District;
      (2)   Feed and seed stores;
      (3)   Garages for repair and service of motor vehicles including towing
and wrecker service but not salvage operations;
      (4)   Grain elevators operated commercially;
      (5)   Processing and packaging of materials with less than ten employees;
      (6)   Storage facilities for rent;
      (7)   Storage and sale of chemicals and the like; and
      (8)   Retail sale of cannabis flower or cannabis products and other
products authorized by M.S. § 342.27 by cannabis businesses licensed or
endorsed for cannabis retail.
   (D)   Lot requirements.      
      (1)   Lot area.
         (a)   For residential dwellings: same as §
154.29(D)(1) in the R-2 zone.
         (b)   For existing non-residential uses:
2,500 square feet.
         (c)   For new non-residential uses: 5,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width.
         (a)   For residential dwellings: Same as §
154.29(D)(2)(a), (b), and (c) in the R-2 zone.
         (b)   For existing non-residential uses: 25 feet.
         (c)   For new non-residential uses: 100 feet.
      (3)   Lot coverage.
         (a)   For residential dwellings: 50%.
         (b)   For existing non-residential uses: 80%.
         (c)   For new non-residential uses: 80%.
   (E)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Front yard: 30 feet except where adjacent structures have front
yard setbacks different from those required, the front yard minimum setback
shall be the average of the adjacent structures. If there is only one adjacent
structure, the front yard minimum setback shall be the average of the above
required setback and that of the adjacent structure.
      (2)   Rear yard: 30 feet.
      (3)   Side yard: 10% of the lot width, except for corner lots, see
division (E)(4) below of this section.
      (4)   Corner lots: If no previous designation has been made prior to any
new construction upon any corner lot, the owner shall designate and deliver to
the city, in writing, the front, rear, and side lot lines of the lot, which
designation shall govern for all purposes in the future.
         (a)   Front yard: 30 feet except where adjacent structures have front
yard setbacks different from those required, the front yard minimum setback
shall be the average of the adjacent structures. If there is only one adjacent
structure, the front yard minimum setback shall be the average of the above
required setback and that of the adjacent structure.
         (b)   Rear yard: 30 feet.
         (c)   Side yard: 10% of the lot width from the side lot line not
abutting upon a street or public right-of-way, 20% of the lot width from the
side lot line abutting upon a street or public right-of-way.
   (F)   Building requirements.
      (1)   Building height:
         (a)   Principal buildings shall not exceed four stories or 45 feet
excepting church steeples and communication antennas; and
         (b)   Accessory buildings which are separated from the principal
building but are located on the same zoning lot shall not exceed ten feet when
measured from the grade level to the lowest point of the roof.
      (2)   Building width: For residential uses, shall be a minimum of 24
feet.
      (3)   Foundation: All buildings shall be placed on a permanent
foundation, except for accessory buildings with a footprint of less than 120
square feet.
   (G)   Parking requirements.
      (1)   For residential uses, there shall be a minimum of two off-street
parking spaces for each residential unit. The City Council may determine the
parking requirements for the upper floor existing dwelling units in the
downtown area.
      (2)   For commercial uses, the provisions of §
154.46 shall apply.
      (3)   In the downtown area, the front and rear yard areas may be used for
parking if approved by the City Council.
   (H)   Sign requirements. The provisions of §
154.47 shall apply.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998; Ord. 19-12, passed 8-13-2001; Ord. 19-15, passed
5-12-2003; Ord. 19-16, passed 2-13-2006; Ord. 25-401, passed 5-12-2025)
Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.31 C-2 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The C-2 Highway Commercial District is primarily established
to accommodate those highway-oriented and heavy commercial uses which by nature
and operational characteristics such as direct access and large number of
parking spaces, require separation from other uses due to the intensity and
frequency of consumer travel.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The uses permitted in the C-2 Commercial District
consist of large traffic generators and commercial uses generally placed along
major streets, highways, and railroads although certain retail and service uses
are also found in this district.
      (1)   All permitted uses listed in §
154.30(B)(2) and conditional uses listed in §
154.30(C) of the C-1 District.
      (2)   Other permitted uses as follows:
         (a)   Automotive sales and service;
         (b)   Animal hospitals and kennels provided that the out-door pens are
not located closer than 500 feet from any residential district;
         (c)   Bulk oil and gas storage and sales;
         (d)   Department stores;
         (e)   Farm implement sales and service;
         (f)   Fertilizer storage and sale;
         (g)   Furniture, carpet and floor-covering stores;
         (h)   Hotels and motels;
         (i)   Liquor stores;
         (j)   Lumber yards, building materials and supplies;
         (k)   Machinery and equipment sales and service including farm
machinery and construction equipment;
         (1)   Marine vehicle sales and service;
         (m)   Mobile home sales and service;
         (n)   Monument sales;
         (o)   Plumbing, heating, and air conditioning shops and yards;
         (p)   Shopping malls;
         (q)   Sporting goods stores; and
         (r)   Trucking firms.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses shall not be located less than 200
feet from a residential district.
      (1)   Contractor’s yards;
      (2)   Manufacturing, processing, and packing of natural or human made
materials with more than ten employees;
      (3)   Open storage of equipment and material not covered under permitted
uses;
      (4)   Electric power substations;
      (5)   Indoor cultivation of cannabis by cannabis businesses licensed or
endorsed for cultivation;
      (6)   Manufacture of cannabis products by cannabis businesses licensed or
endorsed for cannabis manufacture;
      (7)   Manufacture of low-potency hemp edible products by businesses
licensed or endorsed for low-potency hemp edible manufacture;
      (8)   Wholesale of products authorized by M.S. § 342.34 by cannabis
businesses licensed or endorsed for wholesale;
      (9)   Retail sale of cannabis flower or cannabis products and other
products authorized by M.S. § 342.27 by cannabis businesses licensed or
endorsed for cannabis retail; and
      (10)   Low-potency edibles business.
   (D)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Lot area. The minimum lot area shall be 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width. The minimum lot width shall be 100 feet.
      (3)   Lot coverage. The principal and accessory uses, excluding parking,
shall not cover more than 50% of the lot.
   (E)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Front yard: 30 feet except where adjacent structures have front
yard setbacks different from those required, the front yard minimum setback
shall be the average of the adjacent structures. If there is only one adjacent
structure, the front yard minimum setback shall be the average of the above
required setback and that of the adjacent structure.
      (2)   Rear yard: 30 feet.
      (3)   Side yard: 10% of the lot width, except for corner lots, see
division (E)(4) below.
      (4)   Corner lots: If no previous designation has been made, prior to any
new construction upon any corner lot the owner shall designate and deliver to
the city in writing the front, rear, and side lot lines of the lot, which
designation shall govern for all purposes in the future.
         (a)   Front yard: 30 feet, except where adjacent structures have front
yard setbacks different from those required, the front yard minimum setback
shall be the average of the adjacent structures. If there is only one adjacent
structure, the front yard minimum setback shall be the average of the above
required setback and that of the adjacent structure.
         (b)   Rear yard: 30 feet.
         (c)   Side yard: 10% of the lot width from the side lot line not
abutting upon a street or public right-of-way, 20% of the lot width from the
side lot line abutting upon a street or public right-of-way.
   (F)   Building requirements.
      (1)   Building height: Shall not exceed 45 feet except for communication
antennas.
      (2)   Building width: There shall be no limits on building width.
      (3)   Foundation: All buildings shall be placed on a permanent
foundation, except for accessory buildings with a footprint of less than 120
square feet.
   (G)   Parking requirements.
      (1)   In the C-2 Commercial District, the front and rear yards may be
used for parking.
      (2)   For permitted and conditional uses, the provisions of §
154.46 shall apply.
   (H)   Sign requirements. The provisions of §
154.47 shall apply.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998; Ord. 19-15, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 19-16, passed
2-13-2006; Ord. 25-401, passed 5-12-2025) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.32 I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The I-1 Industrial District is primarily established to
accommodate light industry and manufacturing facilities appropriate to the
city. The intent is to encourage grouping of related industrial and
manufacturing uses to prevent intrusion on other uses and to maintain an
orderly, functional, appealing and efficient land use system.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All conditional uses listed in §
154.31(C) of the C-2 District;
      (2)   Any industrial or manufacturing operation provided that:
         (a)   Dust, fumes, odors, smoke, vapor, noise, lights, and vibration
shall be confined within the I-1 District, and;
         (b)   Outdoor storage, equipment, and refuse areas shall be concealed
from view abutting rights-of-way by materials prescribed by the City Council.
      (3)   Any production, processing, and treatment of products such as
battery and tire services, concrete and asphalt products dairy processing,
bottling works, ice and cold storage plants, machine and sheet metal shops,
provided that all operations be conducted entirely in enclosed buildings;
      (4)   Construction shops;
      (5)   Public utility buildings including water and wastewater facilities
and accessories;
      (6)   Radio and TV stations and studios;
      (7)   Storage, warehousing, and wholesaling establishments; and
      (8)   Manufacture of low-potency hemp edible products by businesses
licensed or endorsed for low-potency hemp edible manufacturer.
   (C)   Conditional uses. (Shall not be located nearer than 500 feet from any
residential area.)
      (1)   Sand and gravel operations subject to the development of
appropriate environmental requirements/standards;
      (2)   Any production, processing and sale of agricultural products
produced in the region and related uses such as agricultural chemicals and
fuels;
      (3)   Indoor cultivation of cannabis by cannabis businesses licensed or
endorsed for cultivation;
      (4)   Outdoor cultivation of cannabis by cannabis businesses licensed or
endorsed for cultivation;
      (5)   Manufacture of cannabis products by cannabis businesses licensed or
endorsed for cannabis manufacture;
      (6)   Wholesale of products authorized by M.S. § 342.34 by cannabis
businesses licensed or endorsed for wholesale;
      (7)   Retail sale of cannabis flower or cannabis products and other
products authorized by M.S. § 342.27 by cannabis businesses licensed or
endorsed for cannabis retail; and
      (8)   Low-potency edibles business.
   (D)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Lot area: The minimum lot area shall be one acre.
      (2)   Lot width: The minimum lot width shall be 200 feet.
      (3)   Lot coverage: The principal and accessory uses, excluding parking,
shall not cover more than 50% of the lot.
   (E)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Front yard: 50 feet except where adjacent structures have front
yard setbacks different from those required, the front yard minimum setback
shall be the average of the adjacent structures. If there is only one adjacent
structure, the front yard minimum setback shall be the average of the above
required setback and that of the adjacent structure.
      (2)   Rear yard: 50 feet.
      (3)   Side yard: 10% of the lot width, except for corner lots, see
division (E)(4) below.
      (4)   Corner lots: If no previous designation has been made, prior to any
new construction upon any corner lot the owner shall designate and deliver to
the city in writing the front, rear, and side lot lines of the lot, which
designation shall govern for all purposes in the future.
         (a)   Front yard: 50 feet, except where adjacent structures have front
yard setbacks different from those required, the front yard minimum setback
shall be the average of the adjacent structures. If there is only one adjacent
structure, the front yard minimum setback shall be the average of the above
required setback and that of the adjacent structure.
         (b)   Rear yard: 50 feet.
         (c)   Side yard: 10% of the lot width from the side lot line not
abutting upon a street or public right-of-way, 20% of the lot width from the
side lot line abutting upon a street or public right-of-way.
      (5)   No building or structure shall be located less than 100 feet from
the boundary of a residential zone.
   (F)   Building requirements.
      (1)   Building height: Shall not exceed 45 feet except for television and
radio towers.
      (2)   Foundation: All buildings shall be placed on a permanent
foundation, except for accessory buildings with a footprint of less than 120
square feet.
   (G)   Parking requirements. There shall be one off-street parking space for
every two employees and additional spaces shall be provided to accommodate
trucks and other related motor vehicles. For non-industrial uses, the
provisions of §
154.46 shall apply.
   (H)   Sign requirements. The provisions of §
154.47 shall apply.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998; Ord. 19-15, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 19-16, passed
2-13-2006; Ord. 25-401, passed 5-12-2025) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.33 PD-1 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The PD-1 Planned Development District is established to allow
greater freedom, imagination, and flexibility in the development of land while
complying with the intent and purpose of this chapter. It is the purpose of the
PD-1 District to encourage more rational, efficient, and cost-effective
development with relationship to public services while enhancing and improving
the environmental quality of the city.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Any group of permitted uses in any zoning district in this chapter,
provided that there is distinct compatibility and harmony among the uses.
      (2)   In a PD-1 district, the uses and their intensity, appearance, and
arrangement shall be of such visual and operational character which:
         (a)   Are compatible with the physical nature of the site or area;
         (b)   Would not adversely affect the provisions for public services;
         (c)   Would not have adverse effects on the adjoining properties or
uses; and
         (d)   Would not create a traffic or parking demand incompatible with
existing or proposed facilities.
   (C)   Site requirements.
      (1)   The minimum land parcel shall be three acres.
      (2)   There shall be no predetermined requirements for lot area, lot
width, building height, and yards, but such requirements are made a part of an
approved, recorded and detailed development plan.
      (3)   A PD-1 District development plan shall include:
         (a)   The location, number, and configuration of parking spaces; and
         (b)   The location, type, and size of signs.
   (D)   Development plan. A detailed development plan is required which shall
be drawn at a scale of one inch equaling 400 feet. The development plan shall
include:
      (1)   The location of existing property lines, buildings, wooded areas,
and other significant natural features;
      (2)   General layout of proposed streets and location of blocks for
designated uses;
      (3)   Location of open spaces and facilities for public uses;
      (4)   Existing drainage pattern based on the available topographic
information from the U.S. Geological Survey Maps and other similar information;
and
      (5)   Any other information required by the City Council.
   (E)   Data submission requirements.
      (1)   A general map of the area showing existing land use, zoning, street
pattern, and traffic data.
      (2)   Detailed development plan showing:
         (a)   Detailed lot layout and street pattern;
         (b)   Location of open spaces and recreational areas;
         (c)   Grading and storm water drainage plan; and
         (d)   Location and description of any areas to be dedicated to the
public.
      (3)   Proof of financial capability;
      (4)   Analysis of economic impacts; and
      (5)   Agreements, provisions, and covenants which insure the timely and
satisfactory completion of the project without posing a burden on the city or
adjoining properties.
   (F)   Review and approval procedure.
      (1)   The City Council shall review the proposed plan and may require
additional information and/or modification of the plan before holding a public
hearing.
      (2)   Upon receipt of all requested information for the proposed plan, a
public hearing will be scheduled. Notice of the hearing shall be published at
least ten days prior to the hearing in the official newspaper of the city and
shall include:
         (a)   The time and place of the hearing;
         (b)   The description of the property included in the planned
development;
         (c)   The proposed use(s) in the planned development; and
         (d)   The time and place for public inspection of the proposed plan
before the hearing.
      (3)   After the public hearing, at which the City Council shall hear all
persons who may speak in support of, or in opposition to the proposed plan, the
City Council shall accept or reject the proposed plan within 30 days.
      (4)   Upon acceptance of the proposed plan by the City Council, a
developer’s agreement shall be formulated which spells out all financial
responsibilities of the developer and the city.
      (5)   After approval of the developer’s agreement by the City Council,
the detailed development plan shall be recorded with the County Register of
Deeds and the original plan shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998) Penalty, see §
154.99
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.45 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the regulations
of non-conforming buildings and uses and to specify those circumstances and
conditions which adversely affect the maintenance, development, use, or taxable
value of other property in the area and whether it shall be permitted to
continue or shall be discontinued.
   (B)   Authority to continue. Any non-conforming building or use which
existed lawfully prior to the adoption of this chapter but which has become
non-conforming upon adoption of this chapter may be continued. But if the non-
conforming use or occupancy is discontinued for a period of more than 12
consecutive calendar months, any subsequent use or occupancy of the premises
shall be a conforming use or occupancy.
   (C)   Change or expansion of use. Whenever the use of a building becomes a
non-conforming use through a change in zoning ordinances or change in district
boundaries, the use may be continued, if no structural alterations are made. A
non-conforming building which is non-conforming as to size, shall not be added
to or enlarged in any manner unless such changes are made to conform to all of
the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (D)   Repairs and alterations. Ordinary repairs and alterations may be made
to a non-conforming building, provided that no structural alterations be made
except to make the building or use conforming to the provisions of the district
in which it is located.
   (E)   Restoration of damaged building. Whenever a building is destroyed or
damaged by fire or other casualty to the extent of more than 60% of its full
market value, it shall not be restored unless said building and use shall
conform to all of the regulations of the district in which it is located. In
the event such damage or destruction is less than 60% of such full market
value, repairs or construction may be made within one year from the date of
destruction.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.46 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate the location and
capacity of off-street parking and off-street loading facilities to minimize
adverse effects on adjacent properties as well as lessen congestion and
increase the safety and capacity of public streets.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   An off-street parking space shall be at least nine feet wide and 20
feet long, exclusive of access drives or ramps and have a vertical clearance of
at least seven feet.
      (2)   All open off-street parking areas with four or more spaces and all
loading berths shall:
         (a)   Be improved with all-weather surface to provide durable and
dust-free surface;
         (b)   Be graded to dispose of all surface water run-off but not to be
diverted to adjoining properties;
         (c)   Be arranged and marked to provide for orderly and safe parking:
         (d)   Have an access road of eight feet for residential or 15 feet for
non-residential buildings; and
         (e)   Be screened by wall, fence, or landscaping from the street or
from any residential or institutional property.
      (3)   Off-street parking or loading facilities requirements shall be met
on the same lot as the building served unless the adjoining lot is exclusively
used for meeting the parking requirements of a building or use.
   (C)   Special requirements.
      (1)   No building shall be erected or enlarged to the extent of
increasing the floor area by as much as 50% without meeting these requirements:
         (a)   Business, professional, or public office building, bank,
medical, or dental clinics: one parking space for each 150 square feet of floor
area;
         (b)   Church or a place of worship: one parking space for each five
seats in the main building;
         (c)   Eating and drinking establishments, restaurants: one space for
each 200 square feet of f1oor area;
         (d)   Community center: ten parking spaces, plus one additional space
for each 300 square feet of floor area in excess of 2,000 square feet;
         (e)   Funeral home: one parking space for each 150 square feet of
floor space in the parlor and service rooms;
         (f)   Hospital, nursing home: one parking space for each bed;
         (g)   Commercial, industrial or manufacturing establishments
warehouses, or similar uses: one parking space for every two employees on the
maximum working shift plus space to accommodate all trucks and other vehicles
used in connection thereof;
         (h)   Motels: one parking space per room;
         (i)   Private club or lodge: one parking space for every ten members;
         (j)   Residential uses:
            1.   Single family: two spaces per unit;
            2.   Duplexes: two spaces per unit;
            3.   Multiple family: one space for efficiency unit two spaces for
one bedroom or larger units;
            4.   Mobi1e home park: two spaces per unit; and
            5.   Manufactured or modu1ar homes: two spaces per unit.
      (2)   Restaurants, eating and drinking establishments: one parking space
for each 100 square feet of floor area;
      (3)   Retail stores and service establishments: one parking space for
each 200 square feet of floor area; and
      (4)   Downtown commercial district: one parking space for each 600 square
feet of floor area.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.47 SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of sign regulations is to encourage the effective
use of signs as a means of communication in the city; to maintain and enhance
the aesthetic environment and the city’s ability to attract sources of economic
development and growth; to improve pedestrian and traffic safety; to minimize
the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby public and private property; and
to enable the fair and consistent enforcement of these sign restrictions.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   No sign shall be located, erected, moved, reconstructed, extended,
enlarged, or structurally altered except in compliance with the city sign
ordinance (Chapter 152). Non-conforming signs shall be subject to the
provisions of §
154.45.
      (2)   All signs, canopies, awnings, and marquees shall be structurally
safe and securely anchored, fastened, or supported.
      (3)   No revolving beacon or fountain signs are permitted in any
district, except such signs related to the operation of public facilities.
   (C)   Special requirements.
      (1)   Signs in the residential district shall not exceed a maximum of 96
square feet in area.
Chapter 152 may further restrict permitted size.
      (2)   Signs in the C-1 Commercial District shall not exceed a maximum of
96 square feet in area.
Chapter 152 may further restrict permitted size.
      (3)   Signs in the C-2 Commercial and I-1 Industrial District shall
comply with
Chapter 152.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998; Ord. 19-1, passed 10-10-2005) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.48 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS IN REAR YARD.
   Accessory buildings may be built in a required rear yard but shall not
occupy more than 30% of a required rear yard and shall not be nearer than five
feet to any side lot line or rear lot line, except that when a garage is
entered from an alley at right angle, it shall not be located closer than ten
feet to the alley line. If a garage is located closer than ten feet to the main
building the garage shall be regarded as a part of the main building for the
purposes of determining side yards and rear yards. Fences and hedges shall be
no less than one foot from the lot line.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.49 FRONT YARD ADJUSTMENTS.
   The front yards established in this chapter shall be adjusted in the
following cases. Fences and hedges shall be no less than three feet from the
lot line.
   (A)   Where 40% or more of the frontage on the same side of streets between
two intersecting streets is developed with two or more buildings that have,
with a variation of five feet or less, a front yard greater in depth than
required in this chapter, new buildings shall not be erected closer to streets
than the front yard so established by the existing building nearest the street
line.
   (B)   Where 40% or more of the frontage on one side of the street between
two intersecting streets is developed with two or more buildings that have a
front yard of less depth than required in this chapter, the following shall
govern.
      (1)   Where a building is to be erected on a parcel of land that is
within 100 feet of existing buildings on both sides, the minimum front yard
shall be a line drawn between the two closest front corners of the adjacent
building on each side.
      (2)   Where a building is to be erected on a parcel of land that is
within 100 feet of an existing building on one side only, the building may be
erected as close to the street as the existing adjacent building.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998) Penalty, see §
154.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.60 ORGANIZATION.
   Administration of this chapter is hereby vested with the Code Administrator
of the city.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 154.61 CODE ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Code Administrator shall be appointed by Resolution of the City Council
and is responsible to administer the zoning ordinance and subdivision
regulations and to assist and make recommendations to the City Council on any
matter related to planning for, and development of, the city.
   (A)   Duties and responsibilities. The Code Administrator shall be
specifically responsible for interpretation and enforcement of this chapter,
including the issuance of zoning permits, zoning permits, occupancy permits,
and the following:
      (1)   Issue zoning certificates and maintain records thereof;
      (2)   Issue building and repair permits;
      (3)   Cause to be inspected all buildings, structures, and use of land to
determine compliance with these and other applicable regulations of the city;
      (4)   Maintain zoning-related records and zoning district map including
records of all amendments, conditional uses, and variances;
      (5)   Receive, file, and forward to the City Council all applications for
zoning amendments and conditional uses and all appeals for variances and
special use permits; and
      (6)   Notify, in writing, the property owner or user upon finding
violation of this chapter and cite the nature of violation clearly and require
compliance within a reasonable time. If the notification is not replied to or
steps are not taken to correct the violations within 30 days, the Code
Administrator shall make a report of the findings to the City Council.
   (B)   Interpretation of regulations. Questions of interpretation of this
chapter shall be first presented to the Code Administrator and may thereafter
be appealed to the City Council.
   (C)   Zoning permit application. Any person intending to construct,
reconstruct, relocate, or make alteration to a building shall before commencing
with any phase of the work, obtain a permit from the Code Administrator. All
mobile homes and manufactured homes are required to comply with the
Manufactured Housing and Building Code and are required to obtain a permit from
the Code Administrator for placement and relocation thereof.
      (1)   Each application for a zoning permit shall be accompanied by a
legal description and a map showing the actual dimension of the lot to be built
upon, the size, shape, and location of the building for observing the yard
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The application shall specify the type of the building, structure,
material of which it is composed, the part or portion of the 1ot to be occupied
by the principal building and accessory buildings and the probable building
cost, together with such additional plans and specifications as may be required
by the Code Administrator.
      (3)   The Minnesota State Building Code which has been adopted by the
City Council, together with any amendments made hereafter are incorporated and
made a part of this chapter.
   (D)   Zoning permit. The Code Administrator shall issue a building permit if
the proposed building or structure conforms to zoning and building provisions
of this chapter. If the permit is denied, the Code Administrator shall inform
the applicant of the right to appeal to the City Council.
   (E)   Zoning permit fees. The Code Administrator shall charge and collect a
fee according to the Resolution of Fees and Schedules established by the city,
as set forth below:
 
Zoning permits                         $0.50 per $1,000 with a minimum of $10
(valuation based):
Zoning district amendments (rezoning):  
Conditional uses:                         $100
Variances:
 
   (F)   Certificate of occupancy. The Code Administrator shall issue a
certificate of occupancy upon inspection of the completed building, including
placement of mobile homes and manufactured homes and assurance that all
provisions and conditions set forth by the authority of this chapter are met.
In the event the Code Administrator finds violations and deviations from the
terms and conditions of this chapter, such information will be reported to the
City Council.
   (G)   Conditional use permit. The Code Administrator shall issue a
conditional use permit upon approval of the application by the City Council in
which all conditions shall be stipulated subject to the provisions of division
(H) below in this section.
   (H)   Variances, special use permits. The Code Administrator shall issue the
appropriate permit upon approval of the City Council. The terms of a variance
or special use permit shall be stipulated subject to the provisions of §§
154.63 through
154.66 of this chapter.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998; Res. 00-82, passed 8-14-2000; Res. 00-92, passed
9-11-2000)
§ 154.62 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS.
   The City Council shall act as the Board of Adjustment and Appeals and has
the authority and jurisdiction to review and act upon all applications for
appeal regarding the interpretation and restrictions of this chapter.
   (A)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   To hear and decide all appeals forwarded by the Code Administrator.
      (2)   To hear other matters related to the interpretation and
administration of this chapter.
   (B)   Appeals. Appeals to the Board of Adjustment and Appeals concerning
interpretation or administration of this chapter may be taken by any person.
The appeal shall be taken within 60 days specifying the grounds thereof. The
Code Administrator shall forward to the Board of Adjustment and Appeals all
papers constituting the record and comments on this matter.
   (C)   Notice of hearings. The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing of appeals to give public notice thereof in the
official newspaper of the city at least ten days prior to the hearing. The
notice shall state the purpose of the hearing and that the application and
supporting documents for appeal are available for public inspection in the
office of the City Clerk-Treasurer during normal working hours.
   (D)   Meetings. All meetings of the Board of Adjustment and Appeals are open
to the public and anyone may testify for or against the application for appeal.
   (E)   Authority to reverse, affirm decisions. The Board of Adjustment and
Appeals may reverse or affirm in whole or in part, or may modify the order,
requirements, decisions, or determination appeal from the decision of the Code
Administrator. The decision of the Board of Adjustment and Appeals on variances
and special use permits shall be final, but an appeal may be made to the City
Council for further review and action.
   (F)   Action for reversal of decisions. The concurring vote of three-fourths
of members of the Board of Adjustment and Appeals present is necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the Code
Administrator, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which
it is required to decide under this chapter or to affect any variation in the
application of this chapter.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 154.63 ZONING DISTRICT AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Public hearing notice. The City Council shall hold a public hearing, a
notice of which shall be published at least ten days prior to the hearing in
the official newspaper of the city. The notice of hearing shall include:
      (1)   The time and place of hearing;
      (2)   Description of the property by street address for p1atted 1ands and
clearly identifiable location for the unplatted lands;
      (3)   The proposed use and requested zoning district change; and
      (4)   The time and place for public inspection of the documents before
the hearing.
   (B)   Public hearing. The City Council, at the hearing, shall listen to all
persons who may speak in support of or in opposition to the proposal. The City
Council may issue a decision at the end of the public hearing or may require
additional information before it approves or denies the petition.
   (C)   Data submission requirements. Petitions for zoning district changes
and conditional uses shall be submitted with the following information:
      (1)   Legal description of the area proposed to be rezoned, the name and
addresses of all owners of property lying within such area;
      (2)   A list of names and addresses of the owners of all properties
within 150 feet of the proposed property, excluding the width of the streets
rights-of-way;
      (3)   A map showing the existing land uses and zoning district
classification of the area;
      (4)   A site plan showing the existing buildings and uses and the
requested changes; and
      (5)   A fee shall be paid in accordance with the schedule established by
the City Council.
   (D)   Deliberation and decision. The City Council shall ascertain whether
the proposal for a zoning district amendment meets all requirements of this
chapter and other regulations of the city and shall issue its decision within
30 days of the public hearing or within 30 days of receiving any additional
information requested, whichever is longer. If a protest against a zoning
district change is signed by 20% of either: the owners of the property within
the proposed site or the owners of the adjoining properties within 150 feet of
the site (excluding street rights-of-way), a vote of three fourths of all City
Council members is necessary to approve the zoning district change.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 154.64 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The development of this chapter is based upon division of the
city into districts, within which districts the use of land and building bulk
and locations of buildings and structures are mutually compatible and
substantially harmonious. However, there are certain uses which, because of
their unique characteristics, cannot be properly classified as permitted uses
in any particular district without consideration, in each case, of impact of
those uses upon neighboring premises. Such uses, nevertheless, may be necessary
or desirable to be allowed in a particular district provided that due
consideration is given to location, development, and operation of such uses.
   (B)   Public hearing notice. Shall be the same as the provisions set forth
for the public hearing notice in §
154.63(A).
   (C)   Public hearing. Shall be the same as the provisions set forth for the
public hearing in §
154.63(B).
   (D)   Data submission requirements. Shall be the same as the provisions set
forth in §
154.63(C).
   (E)   Deliberation and decision. Shall be the same as the provisions set
forth in §
154.63(D).
   (F)   Standards. No application for conditional use shall be approved unless
the City Council finds that all of the following conditions are present:
      (1)   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the conditional use
will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals,
comfort, or general welfare;
      (2)   The uses, values, and enjoyment of other property in the
neighborhood for purposes already permitted shall be in no foreseeable manner
substantially impaired or diminished by the establishment, maintenance, or
operation of the conditional use;
      (3)   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district;
      (4)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and other necessary
site improvements have been, or are being provided;
      (5)   Adequate measures have been, or will be taken to provide ingress
and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets;
and
      (6)   The conditional use shall substantially conform to all applicable
regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (G)   Conditions and guarantees.
      (1)   Prior to the decision on any conditional use, the City Council may
stipulate such conditions and restrictions upon the establishment, location,
construction, maintenance, and operation of the conditional use as deemed
necessary to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
community, and to secure compliance with the standards and requirements
specified in division (F) above of this section. In all cases in which
conditional uses are granted, the City Council shall require such evidence and
guarantees as it may deem necessary as proof that the conditions stipulated in
connection therewith are being, and will be, complied with.
      (2)   No alteration of a conditional use shall be permitted unless
approved by the City Council. Where the City Council has approved or
conditionally approved an application for a conditional use, such approval
shall become null and void within 12 months of the date of the City Council’s
action unless the use is commenced, construction is underway, or the current
owner possesses a valid zoning permit.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998; Res. 00-92, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 154.65 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Board of Appeals and Adjustments. The City Council shall be the Board
of Appeals and Adjustments for this city, and as provided by M.S. § 462.354,
subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time, shall have the powers granted
under M.S. § 462.357, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Variances.
      (1)   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.357, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time
to time, the City Council, acting as a Board of Appeals and Adjustments, may
issue variances from the provisions of this chapter. A variance is a
modification or variation of the provisions of this chapter as applied to a
specific piece of property.
      (2)   Variances shall only be permitted:
         (a)   When they are in harmony with the general purposes and intent of
this chapter; and
         (b)   When the variances are consistent with the comprehensive plan.
      (3)   Variances may be granted when the applicant for the variance
establishes that there are practical difficulties in complying with the zoning
ordinance.
      (4)   PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES as used in connection with the granting of a
variance, means that:
         (a)   The property owner proposes to use the property in a reasonable
manner not permitted by the zoning ordinance;
         (b)   The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to
the property not created by the landowner; and
         (c)   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality.
      (5)   Economic considerations alone do not constitute practical
difficulties. Practical difficulties include, but are not limited to,
inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems.(Ord. 19-1,
passed 8-10-1998; Ord. 19-17, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 154.66 ACTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Initiation of amendment. Amendments may be proposed by the City
Council or any person who has a freehold interest or contractual interest in a
building, structure, lot, or parcel of land.
   (B)   Application for amendment. Application for an amendment shall be filed
with the Code Administrator who shall forward all such applications to the City
Council.
   (C)   Notice of public hearing. Notice of hearing shall include time, place,
and purpose of such hearing and shall be published at least ten days before the
hearing in the official newspaper of the city.
   (D)   Public hearing. At the public hearing any person may express
opposition to, or support for, the amendment.
   (E)   Decision of City Council. In the event that a written protest against
a proposed amendment or conditional use application is filed by owners of 20%
or more of the area within the proposed amendment or owners of 20% or more of
the adjoining land within 150 feet of the proposed site excluding street
rights-of-way such amendment or conditional use application shall not become
effective except by the favorable vote of three fourths of the City Counci1.
   (F)   Effect of denial of application. An application for an amendment to
the zoning district map or conditional use permit which has been denied by the
City Council shall not be made for a period of one year from the date of such
denials, unless the new application is substantially different from the denied
application.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or fails to comply
with any of its requirements including the conditions for modification of use,
building, or structure shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor which is
punishable by a fine not more than the maximum fine imposed under the laws of
the State of Minnesota for petty misdemeanor violations. Each day such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998; Res. 15-107, passed 1-12-2015)
APPENDIX A: LIST OF USES BY DISTRICT
   A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
PERMITTED USES:
–   Agricultural uses subject to Minnesota Pollution Control Agency standards,
but not including commercial feed lots or other commercial operations
–   Accessory buildings and structures
–   Churches and cemeteries
–   Golf courses, parks, and playfields
–   Schools, public buildings, and facilities
–   Single-family dwellings
–   Manufactured home units installed on a permanent foundation of basement
–   Home occupations
–   Stock-piling of sand and gravel for road construction and maintenance
–   Construction and maintenance of drainage systems to manage the water run-
off and water reservoirs
–   Utility lines and pipe lines including substations for transformers,
pumping stations, and lift stations
CONDITIONAL USES:
–   High voltage transmission lines and accessory structures
–   Manufacturing and processing of agricultural products produced in the area
but not including rendering plants and fertilizer plants
–   Radio, TV stations, and towers
–   Sewage lagoons and wastewater treatment facilities
–   Veterinary clinics, animal hospitals, and domestic animal kennels which are
not nearer than 1,000 feet from any residence except that of the owner or
operator
   R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
PERMITTED USES:
-   Single-family and two-family dwellings
-   Accessory buildings and structures
-   Churches, schools, and public-related facilities
-   Day care facilities subject to the requirements of the State of Minnesota
AND conducted in single-family or two-family dwellings
-   Golf courses
-   Home occupations
-   Parks, playgrounds, and open spaces
-   Manufactured home units installed on a permanent foundation or basement
CONDITIONAL USES:
-   Condominiums
-   Convalescent and nursing homes
-   Hospitals and medical clinics EXCLUDING veterinary clinics
-   Public and private utilities and structures including overhead and
underground wires and pipelines
   R-2 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
PERMITTED USES:
-   Single-family and two-family dwellings
-   Accessory buildings and structures
-   Churches, schools, and public-related facilities
-   Day care facilities subject to the requirements of the State of Minnesota
AND conducted in single-family or two-family dwellings
-   Golf courses
-   Home occupations
-   Parks, playgrounds, and open spaces
-   Manufactured home units installed on a permanent foundation or basement
-   Condominiums
-   Convalescent and nursing homes
-   Hospitals and clinics EXCLUDING veterinary clinics
-   Public and private utilities and structures including overhead and
underground wires and pipelines
-   Multi-family dwellings for any number of families or housekeeping units
-   Bed and breakfast inns
-   Boarding and lodging houses
-   Mobile home parks (subject to stipulated requirements)
CONDITIONAL USES:
-   Highway maintenance shops
-   Public and private utilities and structures including water and wastewater
treatment facilities, and overhead and underground wires and pipelines
   C-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
PERMITTED USES:
-   Single-family and two-family dwellings
-   Accessory buildings and structures
-   Churches, schools, and public-related facilities
-   Day care facilities subject to the requirements of the State of Minnesota
AND conducted in sing1e-fami1y or two-family dwellings
-   Golf courses
-   Home occupations
-   Parks, playgrounds, and open spaces
-   Condominiums
-   Convalescent and nursing homes
-   Hospitals and clinics EXCLUDING veterinary clinics
-   Manufactured home units installed on a permanent foundation or basement
-   Public and private utilities and structures including overhead and
underground wires and pipelines
-   Multi-family dwellings for any number of families or housekeeping units
-   Bed and breakfast inns
-   Boarding and lodging houses
-   Advertising signs and billboards
-   Amusement places including bowling alleys, pool halls, theaters, and
similar facilities
-   Antique shops, art and craft stores
-   Bakeries and confectionaries
-   Banks and financial institutions
-   Catering businesses
-   Clothing stores
-   Drug stores
-   Dry cleaning and laundromats
-   Flower shops
-   Fraternal and service organizations
-   Funeral homes
-   Grocery stores
-   Household appliance stores
-   Jewelry stores
-   Meat markets and lockers
-   Musical instruments sales and service
-   Optical, orthopedic and medical supply stores
-   Paint and wallpaper stores
-   Professional offices including but not limited to: medical and dental
offices; law offices; employment, collection, & travel agencies; real estate
offices; utility companies: government buildings; and the like
-   Restaurants
-   Service stations
CONDITIONAL USES:
-   Highway maintenance shops
-   Public and private util. and structures including water and wastewater
treatment facilities, and overhead and underground wires and pipelines
-   Feed and seed stores
-   Garages for repair and service of motor vehicles including towing and
wrecker service but not salvage operations
-   Grain elevators operated commercially
-   Processing and packaging of materials with less than ten employees
-   Storage and sale of chemicals and the like
-   Storage facilities for rent
   C-2 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
PERMITTED USES:
-   Advertising signs and bi1lboards
-   Amusement places including bowling alleys, pool halls, theaters, and
similar facilities
-   Antique shops, art and craft stores
-   Bakeries and confectionaries
-   Banks and financial institutions
-   Bed and breakfast inns
-   Catering businesses
-   Clothing stores
-   Drug stores
-   Dry cleaning and 1aundromats
-   Flower shops
-   Fraternal and service organizations
-   Funeral homes
-   Grocery stores
-   Household appliance stores
-   Jewelry stores
-   Meat markets and lockers
-   Musical instruments sales and service
-   Optical, orthopedic, and medical supply stores
-   Paint and wallpaper stores
-   Professional offices including but not limited to medical and dental
offices; law offices: employment agencies; collection agencies; real estate
offices; travel agencies; utility companies; government buildings; and the like
-   Restaurants
-   Service stations
-   Highway maintenance shops
-   Public and private utilities and structures including water and wastewater
treatment facilities, and overhead and underground wires and pipelines
-   Feed and seed stores
-   Garages for repair and service of motor vehicles including towing and
wrecker service but not salvage operations
-   Grain elevators operated commercially
-   Processing and packaging of materials with less than ten employees
-   Storage facilities for rent
-   Storage and sale of chemicals and the like
-   Automotive sales and service
-   Animal hospitals and kennels provided that the outdoor pens are not located
closer than 500 feet from any residential district
-   Bulk oil and gas storage and sales
-   Department stores
-   Farm implement sales and service
-   Fertilizer storage and sale
-   Furniture, carpet and floor-covering stores
-   Hotels and motels
-   Liquor stores
-   Lumber yards, building materials and supplies
-   Machinery and equipment sales and service including farm machinery and
construction equipment
-   Marine vehicle sales and service
-   Mobile home sales and service
-   Monument sales
-   Plumbing, heating and air-conditioning shops and yards
-   Shopping malls
-   Sporting goods stores
-   Trucking firms
CONDITIONAL USES:
-   Contractor’s yards
-   Manufacturing, processing, and packing of natural or human-made materials
with more than ten employees
-   Open storage of equipment and material not covered under permitted uses
-   Electric power substations
   I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
PERMITTED USES:
-   Contractor’s yards
-   Manufacturing, processing and packing of natural or human-made materials
with more than ten employees
-   Open storage of equipment and material
-   Electric power substations
-   Any industrial or manufacturing operation provided that:
   (1)   dust, fumes, odors, smoke, vapor, noise, lights, and vibration shall
be confined within the I-1 District: and,
   (2)   outdoor storage, equipment, and refuse areas shall be concealed from
view abutting rights-of-way by materials prescribed by the City Counci1
-   Any production, processing, and treatment of products such as battery and
tire services, concrete and asphalt products, dairy processing, bottling works,
ice and cold storage plants, machine and sheet metal shops - provided that all
operations be conducted entirely in enclosed buildings
-   Construction shops
-   Public utility buildings including water and wastewater facilities and
accessories
-   Radio and TV stations and studios
-   Storage, warehousing, and wholesaling establishments
CONDITIONAL USES:   (SHALL NOT BE LOCATED NEARER THAN FIVE HUNDRED-500-FEET
FROM ANY RESIDENTIAL AREA)
-   Sand and gravel operations subject to the development of appropriate
environmental requirements/standards
-   Any production, processing, and sale of agricultural products produced in
the region and related uses such as agricultural chemicals and fuels
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998)
APPENDIX B: ZONING MAP
Note: Appendix B is available in PDF format, click HERE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5b565742dcf222c59e32f1858f3b322db4119a74/
IMAGES/0-0-0-858.jpg]
 
(Ord. 19-1, passed 8-10-1998; Res. 14-209, passed 2-24-2014)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing a ten acre tract of land in the northeast quarter
101      9-13-1971   of the northeast quarter of Section 10, Township 139 north
                     of Range 43 West of the 5th Principal Meridian in Becker
                     County
                     Annexing a tract of land situated in Becker County,
102      6-8-1981    located in the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter
                     of Section 10, Township 139 north, Range 43 west of the
                     Fifth Principal Meridian, containing eight acres
                     Annexing the east 300 feet of the northeast quarter of
106      3-14-1988   Section 4, Township 139 north, Range 43 west in Becker
                     County
                     Annexing part of the northeast quarter of Section 10-139-
108      9-10-2001   43 commencing at the northwest corner of the northeast
                     quarter, containing 26.17 acres
                     Annexing part of the southeast quarter of the northwest
                     quarter (SE1/4 NW1/4) of Section 3, Township 139 North,
2017-01  2-13-2017   Range 43 West (Parcel: 18.0023.050) and part of the
                     northwest quarter (NW1/4) of Section 3, Township 139
                     North, Range 43 West (Parcel: 18.0023.100), containing 120
                     acres or less
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed     Description
                         Granting a franchise to Lake Park Public Utilities for
                         the transmitting, furnishing, delivering, or receiving
                         of electric or gas energy within the city and for
17-7     9-9-1996        placing or maintaining fixtures in, over, upon, or
         (Repealed 2015) under any street for transmitting, furnishing,
                         delivering, or receiving electric or gas energy
                         extending to December 31, 2022
                         (Repealed 2015)
17-9     2-12-2002       Granting a cable communications franchise to Tekstar
                         Communications, Inc. DBA Arvig Communication Systems
                         Granting a cable franchise to Midcontinent
2021-03  3-8-2021        Communications to maintain a cable communications
                         system in the City of Lake Park
                         Granting a cable franchise to Tekstar Cablevision to
2021-04  3-8-2021        maintain a cable communication system in the City of
                         Lake Park.
                        
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
                        Amending the zoning map to reclassify Lots 1 and 2,
                        Block 12, Original Townsite, (the mobile home park
19-11       11-30-1998  located on the southwest corner of Liberty and 2nd
                        Streets), from the C-1 General Commercial District to
                        the R-2 Multi-Family Residential District
                        Rezoning property annexed by Ord. No. 108, September
                        10, 2001, consisting of 26.17 acres located in the
19-13       3-11-2002   northeast quarter of Section 10-139-43 (hereafter named
                        the South 10 Business Park) from the A-1 Agricultural
                        District to the C-2 Highway Commercial District
                        Changing the zoning district classification for Lots 5-
19-16       1-12-2004   12, including Auditors Lot 9; Block 4, and Lots 1-20;
                        Block 6 in the Original Townsite to C-1 General
                        Commercial District
                        Changing the zoning district classification of Becker
19-1        1-28-2009   County Tax Parcel No. R51.0023.000 to C-2 Highway
                        Commercial District
                        Changing the zoning district classification of Becker
Res. 09-011 1-28-2009   County Tax Parcel No. 51.0023.000 from R-1 Residential
                        Zone to a C-2 Highway Commercial Zone
                        Changing the zoning district classification of Becker
19-18       8-8-2011    County Tax Parcels No. R51.7019.000 and R51.7020.000 to
                        C-1 General Commercial District
                        Changing the zoning district classification of Becker
2022-08     8-8-2022    County Tax Parcels No. 51.0171.002, 51.0005.006,
                        51.0003.005, and 51.0005.004 to R-2 Multi-Family
                        Residential District
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
https://www.revisor.mn.gov/statutes/
 
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section              Code Section
15.73, Subdivision 3      95.03
18.83, Subdivision 2      92.37
18.87, Subdivision 8      92.37
84.86                     70.02
115.01                    51.001
115.07                    51.001
120A.05                   114.02
120A.24                   114.02
151.72                    113.01,
                          113.02
152.0263, Subdivision 5   114.01
152.22, Subdivision 6     113.01,
                          113.02
152.23                    113.08
157.15, Subdivision 12    113.02
Chapter 168               71.01
168.02, Subdivision 31    70.02
168.12                    92.06
Chapter 169               71.01
216B.02                   95.03
216B.02, Subdivision 4    95.03
216B.02, Subdivision 6    95.03
Chapter 216D              95.06,
                          95.17
                          95.11,
216D.01 - 216D.09         95.17,
                          95.26
237.16                    95.01
                          95.01,
237.162                   95.03,
                          95.19
237.162, Subdivision 4    95.03
                          95.01,
237.163                   95.03,
                          95.19
237.163, Subdivision 2(b) 95.02
237.163, Subdivision 6    95.31
237.79                    95.01
237.81                    95.01
Chapter 238               95.03
238.086                   95.01
245.462                   114.02
Chapter 278               113.05
Chapter 308A              95.03
309.50 - 309.61           110.12
340.07                    112.55
340a.101                  112.55
340A.101                  112.01
340A.101, Subdivision 10  113.02,
                          113.05
340A.401 to 340A.703      112.02
Chapter 342               114.01,
                          114.03
342.0                     114.02
342.01                    130.04
342.11                    114.03
342.13                    114.01,
                          114.03
342.17                    114.02
342.22                    114.01,
                          114.03
342.22, Subdivision 5(e)  114.03
                          114.04,
342.27                    154.30,
                          154.31,
                          154.32
                          114.04,
342.34                    154.31,
                          154.32
342.39, Subdivision 2     114.05
366.011                   90.03
366.012                   90.03
415.01                    90.03
415.11, Subdivision 3     30.02
Chapter 429               153.090,
                          95.24
429.01 et seq.            51.004,
                          52.02
429.061                   92.10
429.101                   92.10,
                          92.43
444.075                   53.01
444.075, Subdivision 3    53.12
Chapter 453               95.03
Chapter 453A              95.03
Chapter 462               95.24
462.354                   154.65
462.357                   114.01
462.357, Subdivision 6    154.65
462.3593                  150.03
462.3593, Subdivision 9   150.03
463.17                    92.09
Chapter 505               153.077
505.03                    153.057
609.685                   111.05
624.20 - 624.25           130.01
624.22                    130.01
626.862                   10.20
631.48                    10.99
                          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
00-61    6-12-2000   10.99
00-82    8-14-2000   154.61
                     151.05,
00-92    9-11-2000   153.004,
                     154.61,
                     154.64
01-121   12-10-2001  110.04
02-22    2-11-2002   10.99
09-011   1-28-2009   T.S.O. III
11-0801  8-8-2011    50.40
                     10.99,
                     31.01,
                     30.02,
                     31.01,
                     31.03,
                     50.02,
                     53.12,
                     53.05 -
                     53.12,
                     70.99,
14-209   2-24-2014   93.01,
                     93.99,
                     94.99,
                     111.01,
                     112.01,
                     112.02,
                     112.16,
                     130.02,
                     130.99,
                     150.99;
                     Ch. 154, App. B
                     30.02,
                     51.001,
                     51.034,
                     52.56,
                     70.99,
                     71.01,
15-107   1-12-2015   90.99,
                     92.01 -
                     92.10,
                     92.35 -
                     92.43,
                     92.99,
                     130.02,
                     154.99
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
105      - -         150.02,
                     150.99
101      9-13-1971   T.S.O. I
4-1      2-14-1972   70.04,
                     70.99
5-2      2-14-1972   150.01,
                     150.99
8-2      2-14-1972   130.03,
                     130.99
9-1      2-14-1972   31.03
9-2      2-14-1972   90.02
                     112.01,
                     112.15 -
11-1     2-14-1972   112.18,
                     112.35,
                     112.36
14-1     2-14-1972   93.01
14-3     2-14-1972   93.30 -
                     93.38
16-1     2-14-1972   70.99
17-1     2-14-1972   31.02
102      6-8-1981    T.S.O. I
11-1     8-27-1984   112.36
16-3     10-8-1984   70.01,
                     70.99
16-3     11-12-1984  70.01
11-1     10-14-1985  112.55,
                     112.56
106      3-14-1988   T.S.O. I
                     51.001 -
                     51.006,
                     51.020 -
                     51.034,
17-2     11-14-1988  51.050 -
                     51.064,
                     51.075,
                     51.095,
                     51.096,
                     51.999
                     51.076 -
17-3     11-14-1988  51.083;
                     Ch. 51, Appendix A
107      9-9-1991    31.01
12-4     11-8-1993   92.99
                     94.01 -
14-4     11-8-1993   94.12,
                     94.99
16-4     11-8-1993   70.02,
                     70.99
17-4     7-11-1994   51.050
4-2      8-22-1994   70.03
14-3     10-10-1994  93.37
17-4     3-13-1995   51.050
17-7     9-9-1996    T.S.O. II
                     111.01 -
6-3      12-8-1997   111.06,
                     111.99
                     154.01 -
                     154.10,
                     154.25 -
                     154.33,
19-1     8-10-1998   154.45 -
                     154.49,
                     154.60 -
                     154.66,
                     154.99
19-10    10-12-1998  154.28
19-11    11-30-1998  T.S.O. III
12-5     6-12-2000   10.98
7-2      7-10-2000   130.02
                     91.01 -
3-3      12-11-2000  91.08,
                     91.21,
                     91.99
                     91.20 -
3-4      12-11-2000  91.31,
                     91.99
107      1-8-2001    31.01
                     52.01 -
                     52.15,
                     52.30 -
17-8     2-12-2001   52.41,
                     52.55 -
                     52.65,
                     52.99
16-2     8-8-2001    71.01 -
                     71.09
19-12    8-13-2001   154.30
108      9-10-2001   T.S.O. I
                     110.01 -
15-2     11-10-2001  110.13,
                     110.99
17-9     2-12-2002   T.S.O. II
19-13    3-11-2002   T.S.O. III
16-2     6-10-2002   71.09,
                     71.99
                     152.01 -
5-6      7-8-2002    152.07,
                     152.99
                     154.06,
19-14    12-9-2002   154.28,
                     154.29
                     154.27,
19-15    5-12-2003   154.30 -
                     154.32
19-16    1-12-2004   T.S.O. III
                     153.001 -
                     153.013,
                     153.025,
                     153.026,
                     153.040 -
                     153.042,
                     153.055 -
19-2     4-11-2005   153.057,
                     153.070 -
                     153.077,
                     153.090,
                     153.091,
                     153.105,
                     153.106,
                     153.120,
                     153.999
                     51.004,
17-2     6-13-2005   51.005,
                     51.096,
                     51.999
                     52.01,
17-8     6-13-2005   52.02,
                     52.65,
                     52.99
19-1     10-10-2005  154.47
                     154.06,
19-16    2-13-2006   154.27 -
                     154.32
11-1     3-12-2007   112.18
17-2     11-14-2007  51.035
08-208   2-11-2008   151.01 -
                     151.07
9-6      7-14-2008   90.01,
                     90.99
16-2     7-14-2008   71.99
19-1     1-28-2009   T.S.O. III
16-2     9-14-2009   71.03
17-11    1-11-2010   53.01 -
                     53.12
8-4      8-9-2010    130.01,
                     130.99
                     50.01 -
                     50.05,
17-10    3-20-2011   50.20 -
                     50.27,
                     50.99
19-17    8-8-2011    154.65
19-18    8-8-2011    T.S.O. III
2015-1   9-14-2015   50.20
2016-01  11-14-2016  71.03
2017-01  2-13-2017   T.S.O. I
2018-01  1-8-2018    154.28,
                     154.29
2018-02  5-14-2018   90.03
2021-01  3-8-2021    95.01 -
                     95.32
2021-03  3-8-2021    T.S.O. II
2021-04  3-8-2021    T.S.O. II
2022-08  8-8-2022    T.S.O. III
                     113.01 -
23-301   3-13-2022   113.12,
                     113.99
--       3-13-2023   130.04,
                     130.99
23-401   4-10-2023   90.03
150.03   1-8-2024    150.03
                     114.01 -
                     114.08,
24-401   5-12-2025   130.99,
                     154.06,
                     154.30 -
                     154.32
                    
 
