LEWISTON, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2025-03, passed 8-27-2025
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
 
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
   
Appendix A: Notice of code violation
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Lewiston City Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provision or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of Lewiston, Minnesota.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. The County of Winona.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Administrator for public inspection. The City Administrator shall provide a
copy for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code
of ordinances, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code
of ordinances, all future supplements are hereby adopted as if they had been in
existence at the time this code was enacted, unless there is clear intention
expressed in the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Administrator shall have the authority to administer and enforce
this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the code or by the City Administrator or City Council shall
have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and
any person or persons designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Administrator and any city official or employee designated by
this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may with
the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident
of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Administrator or any other authorized city officer or
employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection
of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all
permits, licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given
to the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property,
stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner, resident or
other person in control of the property shall be given an opportunity to appear
before the City Administrator to object to the termination before it occurs,
subject to appeal of the Administrator’s decision to the City Council at a
regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (E)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Administrator, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the duty
of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create by resolution, adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
Such resolution may not proscribe administrative penalties for traffic offenses
designated by M.S. § 169.999, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Administrator or other
person giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code, a
written notice must be provided of an alleged violation, sent by first class
mail to the person who is alleged to have violated the code. The person giving
notice may request the payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the
violation directly to the City Administrator within 14 days of the notice of
the violation. A sample notice is contained in the Appendix to this chapter. In
the sole discretion of the person giving the notice of the alleged violation,
the time for payment may be extended an additional 14 days, whether or not
requested by the person to whom the notice has been given. In addition to the
administrative penalty, the person giving notice may request in the notice to
the alleged violator to adopt a compliance plan to correct the situation
resulting in the alleged violation and may provide that if the alleged violator
corrects the situation resulting in the alleged violation within the time
specified in the notice, the payment of the administrative penalty will be
waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including the state statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including the state statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time to time, in
either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of
prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of
this code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation.
APPENDIX A: NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
To:      (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From:   (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re:      Alleged violation of section of the city code, relating to (give title
of section)
Date:    (Date of notice)
   I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated §                 
of the city code relating to
                                                                                                                                             
.
   The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in
the amount of $         for this violation.
   Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay
it the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
   Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due
date, you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
   As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by
                        (establish date), then the payment of the
administrative penalty will be waived.
   Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or
abate the violation.
   Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the
Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to
renew the request for payment. Because the payment of the administrative
penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the
Council.
   If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash or money
order to the City Administrator.
Signed:                                                               
      (Name and Title of Person Giving Notice)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   FEE SCHEDULE
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Presiding officer
   
30.03   Minutes
   
30.04   Order of business
   
30.05   Quorum and voting
   
30.06   Ordinances, resolutions, motions, petitions and communications
   
30.07   Committees
   
30.08   Suspension or amendments of rules
   
30.09   Salaries of Mayor and Council members
   
30.10   City elections
   
30.11   Gifts to local officials
   
30.12   Open Meeting Law
   
30.13   Board/committee meetings
   
30.14   Data practices
   
30.15   Use or disclosure of information
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the
second and fourth Wednesday of each calendar month at 6:00 p.m. Any regular
meeting falling upon a holiday shall be held on the next following business day
at the same time and place. All meetings, including special and reconvened
recessed meetings, shall be held in the city hall.
   (B)   Special meetings. The Mayor or any two members of the Council may call
a special meeting of the Council upon at least 24 hours’ written notice to each
member of the Council. This notice shall be emailed with delivery and read
receipts enabled, delivered personally to each member or shall be left at his
or her usual place of residence with some responsible person. The same or
similar notice shall be posted at the city hall and on the city’s website; and
shall be given to the local media when feasible. Notwithstanding any other
provision in this code, notice of special meetings must comply with M.S. §
13D.04, Subd. 2.
   (C)   Initial meetings. At the first regular Council meeting in January of
each year, the Council shall:
      (1)   Designate the depositories of the city funds;
      (2)   Designate the official newspaper;
      (3)   Choose one of the Council members as Acting Mayor, who shall
perform the duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor
from the city or, in case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a
successor has been appointed and qualifies; and
      (4)   Appoint such officers and employees and such members of boards,
commissions and committees as may be necessary.
   (D)   Public meetings. All Council meetings, including special and
reconvened recessed meetings and meetings of Council committees, shall be open
to the public unless closed by the Council under allowable exceptions to the
state’s Open Meeting Law, being M.S. Ch. 13D.
(Prior Code, § 201.01) (Ord. 13-02, passed 3-13-2013; Ord. 2022-02, passed 10-
12-2022)
§ 30.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Generally. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council. In
the absence of the Mayor, the Acting Mayor shall preside. In the absence of
both, the City Administrator shall call the meeting to order and shall preside
until the Council members present at the meeting choose one of their number to
act temporarily as presiding officer.
   (B)   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce the
rules of procedure herein prescribed and determine without debate, subject to
the final decision of the Council on appeal, all questions of procedure and
order. Except as otherwise provided by statute or by these rules, the
proceedings of the Council shall be conducted in accordance with Robert’s Rules
of Order, Revised.
   (C)   Appeal procedure. Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling
of the presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member may speak once
solely on the question involved and the presiding officer may explain his or
her ruling, but no other Council member shall participate in the discussion.
The appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members
present exclusive of the presiding officer.
   (D)   Rights of presiding officer. The presiding officer may make motions,
second motions or speak on any question except that on demand of any Council
member, he or she shall vacate the chair and designate a Council member to
preside temporarily.
(Prior Code, § 201.02) (Ord. 13-02, passed 3-13-2013)
§ 30.03 MINUTES.
   (A)   Recorder and content. Minutes of each Council meeting shall be kept by
the City Administrator, in the Administrator’s absence, by the Deputy Clerk. In
the absence of both, the presiding officer shall appoint a secretary pro tem.
Ordinances, resolutions and claims need not be recorded in full in the minutes
if they appear in other permanent records of the City Administrator and can be
accurately identified from the description given in the minutes.
   (B)   Approval. The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to typewritten
form, shall be signed by the City Administrator and copies thereof shall be
delivered to each Council member as soon as practicable after the meeting. At
the next regular Council meeting following such delivery, approval of the
minutes shall be considered by the Council. The minutes need not be read aloud,
but the presiding officer shall call for any additions or corrections. If there
is no objection to a proposed addition or correction, it may be made without a
vote of the Council. If there is an objection, the Council shall vote upon the
addition or correction. If there are no additions or corrections, the minutes
shall stand approved.
(Prior Code, § 201.03) (Ord. 13-02, passed 3-13-2013)
§ 30.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order established. Each meeting of the Council shall convene at the
time and place appointed therefore. Council business shall be conducted in the
order designated by the presiding officer.
   (B)   Agenda. An agenda of business for each regular Council meeting shall
be prepared and filed in the office of the City Administrator no later than two
days before the meeting. The agenda shall be prepared in accordance with the
order of business and copies thereof shall be delivered to each Council member
and to the Mayor as far in advance of the meeting as time for preparation will
permit. No item of new business shall be considered unless it appears on the
agenda for the meeting or is approved for addition to the agenda by a unanimous
vote of the Council members present.
(Prior Code, § 201.04)
§ 30.05 QUORUM AND VOTING.
   (A)   Quorum. At all Council meetings, a majority of all the Council members
elected shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from time to time and the City Council may punish
non-attendance for each absence from any meeting unless a reasonable excuse is
offered.
   (B)   Voting. The votes of the members on any question may be taken in any
manner which signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes
of the members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes. The vote
of each member shall be recorded on each appropriation of money, except for
payments of judgments, claims and amounts fixed by statutes. If any member is
present but does not vote, the minutes, as to his or her name, shall be marked
“Present - Not voting”.
   (C)   Votes required. A majority vote of all members of the Council shall be
necessary for approval of any ordinance unless a larger number is required by
statute. Except as otherwise provided by statute, a majority vote of a quorum
shall prevail in all other cases.
(Prior Code, § 201.05)
§ 30.06 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, PETITIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Readings. Every ordinance and resolution shall be presented in
writing. Every ordinance shall be read before the Council prior to final
adoption. If Council members have received a copy in advance of the meeting, an
ordinance or resolution need not be read in full unless a member of the Council
requests such a reading.
   (B)   Signing and publication proof. Every ordinance and resolution passed
by the Council shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by the City Administrator
and filed by him or her in the ordinance or resolution book. Proof of
publication of every ordinance shall be attached and filed with the ordinance.
   (C)   Repeals and amendments. Every ordinance and resolution repealing a
previous ordinance or resolution or a section or subdivision thereof shall give
the number, if any, and the title of the ordinance or code number of the
ordinance or resolution to be repealed in whole or in part. Each ordinance or
resolution amending an existing ordinance or resolution or part thereof shall
set forth in full each amended section or division as it will read with the
amendment.
   (D)   Motions, petitions and communications. Every motion shall be stated in
full before it is submitted to a vote by the presiding officer and shall be
recorded in the minutes. Every petition or other communication addressed to the
Council shall be in writing and shall be read in full upon presentation to the
Council unless the Council dispenses with the reading. Each petition or other
communication shall be recorded in the minutes by title and filed with the
minutes in the office of the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 201.06)
§ 30.07 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Committees designated. The Council may create such committees,
standing or special, as it deems necessary. Committees shall consist of as many
members, and perform such duties, as the Council may require.
   (B)   Membership. Each committee shall consist of at least one member of the
Council and the chairperson of each committee may be designated by the Mayor.
Each committee member shall serve as appointed unless excused by a majority of
the members of the Council. If the committee does not provide otherwise,
committee meetings shall be held at the call of the chairperson. The same
notice shall be given of committee meetings as for special meetings of the
Council except that personal notice need not be given each member if the
committee so decides.
   (C)   Referral and reports. Any matter brought before the Council for
consideration may be referred by the presiding officer to the appropriate
committee or to a special committee by him or her for a report and
recommendation before it is considered by the Council as a whole. Minority
reports may be submitted. Each committee shall act promptly and faithfully on
any matter referred to it.
(Prior Code, § 201.07)
§ 30.08 SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENTS OF RULES.
   These rules may be suspended only by a two-thirds vote of the members
present and voting.
(Prior Code, § 201.08)
§ 30.09 SALARIES OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The salary of the Mayor and each Council member shall be as set from time to
time by resolution of the City Council. The Mayor and each Council member shall
receive the sum as set forth from time to time by resolution of the City
Council for each special meeting or public hearing held on a date and time not
consecutive with another meeting, or any regular monthly City Council meeting
continued to a later date.
(Prior Code, § 201.09) (Ord. 12-04, passed 10-10-2012)
§ 30.10 CITY ELECTIONS.
   The regular city election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in November of each even-numbered year.
(Prior Code, § 201.10)
§ 30.11 GIFTS TO LOCAL OFFICIALS.
   No person or entity shall offer to give a local official or employee, nor
their spouse or dependent children, and no local official nor employee shall
solicit or receive, anything of value (including a gift, favor or service, or a
promise of future employment), which would cause the total value of such things
received from the same person or association to exceed $100 during any calendar
year, and which is either based on any understanding that such local official’s
or employee’s vote, official actions or judgment would be influenced thereby,
or where the circumstances are such that it could reasonably be inferred that
the thing of value would influence the local official or employee in the
discharge of their duties.
§ 30.12 OPEN MEETING LAW.
   In accordance with Minnesota Open Meeting Law (M.S. Chapter 13D, as it may
be amended from time to time), all regular meetings of the governing bodies of
the city, and its committees, sub-committees, boards, departments or
commissions, shall be open to the public and properly noticed. When a special
meeting is called, notice for the special meeting must be posted at city hall,
and notice to members of the governing body must be delivered personally, sent
electronically with delivery receipts, or left at the member’s residence with a
responsible person. All meetings of governing bodies are public, except those
which by law can be made nonpublic. Any person can have access at reasonable
times to the minutes and records of public meetings. Data made accessible must
comply with Minnesota Government Data Practices Act (M.S. Ch. 13, as it may be
amended from time to time).
§ 30.13 BOARD/COMMITTEE MEETINGS.
   The dates and times for regular board and/or committee meetings shall be
established by the City Council, a copy of which shall be filed with the City
Clerk. All board and committee meetings shall be open and accessible to the
public; provided, that a portion of any meeting may be closed for those
purposes allowed under the Minnesota Open Meeting Law. A regular board or
committee meeting may be cancelled or, when the regular Council cycle is
insufficient to address committee business, a special meeting may be called by
its chair, with the approval of the Mayor and upon proper notice. At any
special meeting, only those matters identified in the notice of such meeting
may be considered.
§ 30.14 DATA PRACTICES.
   (A)   In compliance with the requirements of the Minnesota Government Data
Practices Act (MGDPA), Minnesota Rules part 1205.1000 and M.S. § 13.02, Subd.
16, as they may be amended from time to time, the City Council is required to
appoint a person that is responsible for the collection, use and distribution
of government data (the “responsible authority”). The responsible authority, in
turn, may appoint designees to carry out the responsible authority’s required
duties (the “designees”). Further, the responsible authority must appoint a
data practices compliance official (the “compliance official”) to handle
questions or issues that may arise in regard to data access.
   (B)   The responsible authority shall provide training to designees and
staff at such times and in such a manner as the designated responsible
authority determines is appropriate to inform them of their obligations under
the Act and rules.
   (C)   Government data is defined in the MGDPA to include all data collected,
created, received, maintained or disseminated by the city regardless of its
physical form, storage media or conditions of use. The Act divides government
data into three broad classifications: data on individuals; data on decedents;
and data not on individuals or decedents. All government data is presumed to be
public unless there is a specific statute, federal law or temporary
classification that classifies it otherwise. The only time this presumption is
not true is in the case of city personnel data, where the presumption is
reversed. All personnel data is presumed to be private unless a specific state
statute or federal law classifies it as public.
§ 30.15 USE OR DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.
   A local official or employee shall not use or disclose any information
gained in the course of or by reason of their official position in any way that
violates their fiduciary duty to the city or the Minnesota Government Data
Practices Act. A local official or employee shall not use or disclose
privileged, nonpublic, confidential, private or proprietary information gained
in the course of their official duties in any way that could result in
financial gain for the local official or employee, or for the spouse, domestic
partner or dependent of the local official or employee, or for a person in a
committed relationship with the local official or employee, or for any
associated business of the local official or employee, or his or her spouse,
domestic partner, dependent or person with whom he or she has a committed
relationship.
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Personnel policy
   
31.02   Officers and employees held harmless from claims for acts and omissions
City Administrator
   
31.15   Offices defined
   
31.16   Appointment and removal
   
31.17   Responsible to Council
   
31.18   Functions and duties
   
31.19   Supervision
   
31.20   Administrative appeal
   
31.21   Deputy Clerk-Treasurer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 PERSONNEL POLICY.
   The personnel policy is hereby adopted by reference. A full copy of the
policy can be found in the City Administrator’s office.
(Prior Code, Ch. 2, Part 6) (Ord. 2018-02, passed 8-22-2018)
§ 31.02 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES HELD HARMLESS FROM CLAIMS FOR ACTS AND
OMISSIONS.
   The city shall defend and hold harmless the City Council members, all
officers and employees, and volunteer Fire Department or volunteer ambulance
association members from and against any claim, demand or suit, of any nature
whatsoever, whether groundless or not, arising out of any actual or alleged
error or misstatement or act or omission of neglect or breach of duty including
misfeasance, malfeasance or non-feasance by the individual in the discharge of
their duties with the city, individually or collectively, excluding any fines
or penalties imposed by law or by any court, excluding any claim:
   (A)   Based upon attributable to their gaining in fact any personal profit
or advantage to which they were not legally entitled, including remuneration
paid in violation of law; and
   (B)   Brought about or contributed to by fraud or dishonesty of the
individual, however, notwithstanding the foregoing, the individual shall be
defending and held harmless as to any claims upon which suit may be brought
against them by reason of any alleged fraud or dishonesty unless a judgment or
other final adjudication thereof adverse to the individual shall establish that
acts of active or deliberate dishonesty or fraud committed by the individual
were material to the cause of action so adjudicated.
(Prior Code, § 207.01)
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.15 OFFICES DEFINED.
   The office of the City Administrator is hereby combined with the City Clerk-
Treasurer. The Council shall appoint one person to the position of City
Administrator/City Clerk-Treasurer hereafter referred to as “City
Administrator”. The City Administrator shall be responsible to, and serve at
the pleasure of the Council. The City Administrator shall be a chief
administrative officer of the city.
(Prior Code, § 202.01)
§ 31.16 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL.
   The City Administrator shall be appointed by a majority of the Council for
an indefinite term and may be removed from office by a majority vote of the
full Council with or without cause upon 30 days’ notice. The City Council shall
conduct a performance review of the City Administrator at least once annually.
(Prior Code, § 202.02)
§ 31.17 RESPONSIBLE TO COUNCIL.
   The City Administrator shall be subject to supervision and direction only by
the City Council as a collective body and shall not be directed by the Mayor or
any individual Council member.
(Prior Code, § 202.03)
§ 31.18 FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.
   The City Administrator shall be responsible for the proper administration of
all affairs of the city, and shall oversee and direct the operation of all
departments and offices of the city except as otherwise provided by law. In
fulfilling the responsibilities of the office of the City Administrator, the
City Administrator shall be empowered and required to do as follows:
   (A)   Supervise and direct the administration of all departments, offices,
municipal functions and services under the control of the Council, except as
otherwise provided by law;
   (B)   Develop and recommend passage of administrative policies, rules,
regulations and procedures necessary to ensure the proper management of all
departments and offices of the city;
   (C)   Coordinate enforcement of all city ordinance provisions and federal
and state laws through the Chief of Police and City Attorney; and, as
necessary, make recommendations for revisions or additions to the city code;
   (D)   Attend and participate in discussions at all meetings of the City
Council, Planning and Zoning Commission and such other bodies as the Council
may from time to time direct. The City Administrator shall prepare the agenda
for each Council meeting and report to the Council all matters requiring
attention within certain time periods. The City Administrator shall also
represent the city at public functions at the direction of the City Council;
   (E)   Prepare and submit an annual budget to the Council and administer it
after receiving Council approval;
   (F)   Administer and manage the finances of the city and prepare such
financial reports and financial information as may be necessary for the Council
on a monthly basis and annually for any internal or external auditor hired by
the Council and keep such records as the Council may require whether or not
required by state statute;
   (G)   Supervise the activities of all municipal department heads and
personnel in accordance with city ordinance and policies for each department.
The City Administrator shall develop job descriptions, conduct annual
performance reviews, and to the extent requested by the Council, interview and
screen all prospective city employees and make recommendations for employment;
   (H)   The City Administrator shall maintain a personnel file for each
department head and employee containing all annual or special reviews and
disciplinary proceedings. The Administrator may issue verbal or written
reprimands pursuant to the city personnel policy and shall investigate and make
recommendation to the Council on all requests for further discipline, including
suspension without pay and termination;
   (I)   The City Administrator shall make recommendations to the Council for
wages, salary and employee benefits for all city employees and shall inform the
Council of applicable pay equity provisions, keep adequate records and fulfill
any reporting requirements of state and federal law;
   (J)   Supervise purchasing including negotiations, solicitation for
proposals and competitive bidding; including coordination with consultants and
developing specifications for bids and solicitations for proposals; and receipt
and comparison of all estimates, quotations and sealed bids with specifications
prior to submission to the City Council. The Administrator shall monitor all
consultant and contract work performed for the city;
   (K)   Inform and coordinate with the City Attorney all legal matters for the
City Council. Manage all collection of data and categorize private versus
public data and establish uniform procedures for the collection and
dissemination of all data for the city;
   (L)   Fulfill all other responsibilities of the office of the City
Administrator where statutory or ordinance language refers to that position;
   (M)   Maintain good relations with the general public and represent the city
in public relations through press releases and public appearances;
   (N)   Conduct the duties of City Zoning Administrator which includes
approval of all zoning permits which comply with the city code and presenting
all requests for conditional use permits, variances or zoning amendments, to
the Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council and advising the City
Attorney of any procedural or liability issues that Council action may
encounter prior to its meeting; and
   (O)   Become informed and report to the City Council regarding all federal,
state and county programs which may affect or provide opportunities for the
city. Prepare such other information gathering reports and perform such other
duties as may be placed under the City Administrator’s jurisdiction by Council
resolution or as otherwise required by state law.
(Prior Code, § 202.04)
§ 31.19 SUPERVISION.
   No individual member of the Council nor the Mayor shall issue any direct
orders to any department head or employee except through a majority vote of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 202.05)
§ 31.20 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL.
   If any employee or individual shall be aggrieved by any administrative
decision of the City Administrator, if no other specific procedure for appeal
under the city code applies, such aggrieved person may request a hearing before
the City Council by serving a written request therefor upon the City
Administrator at least five days prior to any regular City Council meeting. At
such meeting, the Council may either hear the appeal directly or refer it to an
appropriate committee of the Council for consideration at the next Council
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 202.06)
§ 31.21 DEPUTY CLERK-TREASURER.
   The City Council may appoint a Deputy Clerk-Treasurer whose duties shall be
to perform accounting, record keeping, word processing and receptionist duties
under the supervision of the City Administrator. The Deputy Clerk-Treasurer may
perform any official duties of the City Administrator in the absence of the
Administrator during which time the Deputy Clerk-Treasurer shall report
directly to and be supervised by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 202.07)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Police Department
   
32.01   Establishment
   
32.02   Chief of Police
   
32.03   Duties of police
   
32.04   Uniform and badge
   
32.05   Extra police
   
32.06   Other policies
Fire Department
   
32.20   Fire Department
   
32.21   Selection
   
32.22   Duties of Chief
   
32.23   Records
   
32.24   Practice drills
   
32.25   Assistant Chief
   
32.26   Firefighters
   
32.27   Present members
   
32.28   Relief association
   
32.29   Interference with Department
   
32.30   Fees
Planning and Zoning Commission
   
32.45   Establishment of Commission
   
32.46   Composition
   
32.47   Organization
   
32.48   Powers and duties
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department is hereby established. The head of the
Department shall be known as the Chief of Police and the number of additional
members of the Department, together with their ranks and titles, shall be
determined by the Council by resolution.
   (B)   The compensation to be paid members of the Police Department shall be
fixed by the Council. Members of the Department shall be appointed by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 203.01)
§ 32.02 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall have supervision and control of the Police
Department and its members. He or she shall be responsible to the Council for
law enforcement and for property of the city used by the Department. He or she
shall be responsible for the proper training and discipline of the members of
the Department. He or she shall be responsible for the keeping of adequate
records and he or she shall report to the Council on the needs of the
Department and its work. Every member of the Department subordinate of the
Chief shall obey the instructions of the Chief and any superior officer. The
Council shall designate one of the police officers as acting Chief, who shall
have all the powers and duties of the Chief during his or her absence or
disability.
(Prior Code, § 203.02)
§ 32.03 DUTIES OF POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department shall enforce the ordinances and laws
applicable to the city, bring violators before the county court and make
complaints for offenses coming to their knowledge. Members of the Police
Department shall serve processes on behalf of the city and shall serve such
notices as may be required by the Council or other authority.
(Prior Code, § 203.03)
§ 32.04 UNIFORM AND BADGE.
   Each member of the Department shall, while on duty, wear a suitable badge
and uniform except that the Chief may authorize the performance of specific
duties while not in uniform. When a member terminates his or her membership in
the Department, he or she shall immediately deliver to the city his or her
badge, official files and all other property of the city in his or her
possession. No member of the Department, including part-time officers, may wear
the badge or uniform implying authority of the Police Department while off-duty
or while employed as a bouncer, security agent or other occupation not
specifically authorized by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 203.04)
§ 32.05 EXTRA POLICE.
   In cases of riot or other law enforcement emergency, the Chief of Police or
acting Chief may appoint for a specified time as many special police officers
as may be necessary for the maintenance of law and order. During such term of
appointment, the special police officers shall have only those powers and
perform only those duties as shall be specifically assigned by the Chief of
Police.
(Prior Code, § 203.05)
§ 32.06 OTHER POLICIES.
   All police officers must be aware of and comply with the city’s domestic
abuse prosecution, deadly force and general personnel policies made a part
hereof by reference and on file at the office of the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 203.06)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.20 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby continued in this city a Volunteer Fire Department
consisting of a Chief, an Assistant Chief and not fewer than 25 nor more than
32 firefighters.
(Prior Code, § 204.01)
§ 32.21 SELECTION.
   The Chief of the Fire Department and the Assistant Chief shall be elected
annually by the members of the Department. Each shall hold office for one year
and until his or her successor has been duly elected, except that he or she may
be removed by the Council for cause after a public hearing. Firefighters and
probationary firefighters shall be appointed by the members of the Department,
subject to confirmation by the Council. Firefighters shall continue as members
of the Department during good behavior and may be removed by the Council only
for cause after a public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 204.02)
§ 32.22 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The Chief shall have control of all the firefighting apparatus and shall be
solely responsible for its care and condition. The Chief’s designated
representative shall make a report to the Council at least every other month on
the condition of the equipment and needs of the Fire Department. He or she may
submit additional reports and recommendations at any meeting of the Council,
and he or she shall report each suspension by him or her of a member of the
Fire Department at the first meeting of the Council following such suspension.
He or she shall be responsible for the proper training and discipline of the
members of the Fire Department and may suspend any member for refusal or
neglect to obey orders pending final action by the Council on his or her
discharge or retention.
(Prior Code, § 204.03) (Ord. 13-03, passed 4-10-2013)
§ 32.23 RECORDS.
   The Chief shall keep in convenient form a complete record of all fires. Such
a record shall include the time of the alarm, location of fire, cause of fire
(if known), type of building or equipment, name of owner and tenant, purpose
for which occupied or used, value of buildings and contents, members of the
Department responding to the alarm and such other information as he or she may
deem advisable or as may be required from time to time by the Council or State
Insurance Department.
(Prior Code, § 204.04)
§ 32.24 PRACTICE DRILLS.
   The Chief shall, when weather permits, hold a monthly practice drill of at
least one hour’s duration for the Fire Department and shall give or arrange for
instruction to the firefighters in approved methods of firefighting and fire
prevention.
(Prior Code, § 204.05)
§ 32.25 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence or disability of the Chief, the Assistant Chief shall perform
all the functions and exercise all of the authority of the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 204.06)
§ 32.26 FIREFIGHTERS.
   The Assistant Chief and firefighters shall be able-bodied and not less than
18 years of age. They shall become members of the Fire Department only after a
six-month probationary period. The Council may require that each candidate,
before he or she may become a probationary firefighter, satisfy certain minimum
requirements of height, weight, education and any other qualifications which
may be specified by the Council; and that he or she must pass satisfactorily a
mental and physical examination.
(Prior Code, § 204.07)
§ 32.27 PRESENT MEMBERS.
   No person who is a member of the Fire Department at the time of adoption of
this subchapter shall be required to serve a probationary period before
becoming a firefighter.
(Prior Code, § 204.08)
§ 32.28 RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
   The members and officers of the Fire Department may organize themselves into
a firefighter’s relief association in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 204.09)
§ 32.29 INTERFERENCE WITH DEPARTMENT.
   No person shall give or make, or cause to be given or made, a fire alarm
without probable cause, or neglect or refuse to obey any reasonable order of
the Chief at a fire or interfere with the Fire Department in the discharge of
its duties.
(Prior Code, § 204.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.30 FEES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACT. A contract between the city and a town or other
city for the city to provide fire service.
      FIRE SERVICE. Any deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment
to extinguish a firm or perform any preventative measure in an effort to
protect equipment, life or property in an area threatened by fire. It also
includes the deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment to provide
fire suppression, rescue, extrication and any other services related to fire
and rescue as may occasionally occur.
      FIRE SERVICE CHARGE. The charge imposed by the city for receiving fire
service.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed and originally
manufactured to operate primarily upon public roads and highways, and not
operated exclusively upon railroad tracks. It includes semi-trailers,
snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles. It does not include manufactured homes or
park trailers.
      MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and a town or other
city for the city’s Fire Department to provide assistance to the fire
department of a town or other city.
   (B)   Parties affected. The following parties are affected:
      (1)   Owners of property within the city who receive fire service;
      (2)   Anyone who receives fire service as a result of a motor vehicle
accident or fire; and
      (3)   Owners of property in towns or cities to which the city provides
fire service pursuant to a fire protection contract.
   (C)   Rates. The rates are set forth from time to time by resolution of the
City Council.
   (D)   Billing and collection.
      (1)   Parties requesting and receiving fire services may be billed
directly by the city. Additionally, if the party receiving fire services did
not request services but a fire or other situation exists which, at the
discretion of the Fire Department personnel in charge requires fire service,
the party will be charged and billed. All parties will be billed whether or not
the fire service is covered by insurance. Any billable amount of the fire
charge not covered by a party’s insurance remains a debt of the party receiving
the fire service.
      (2)   Parties billed for fire service will have 30 days to pay. If the
fire service charge is not paid by that time, it will be considered delinquent
and the city will send a notice of delinquency.
      (3)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after this
notice of delinquency is sent, the city will use all practical and reasonable
legal means to collect the fire service charge. The party receiving fire
service shall be liable for all collection costs incurred by the city
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
      (4)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after the
notice of delinquency is sent, the City Council may also, on or before October
15 of each year, certify the unpaid fire service charge to the County Auditor
in which the recipient of the services owns real property for collection with
property taxes. The County Auditor is responsible for remitting to the city all
charges collected on behalf of the city. The city must give the property owner
notice of its intent to certify the unpaid fire service charge by September 15.
   (E)   Mutual aid agreement. When the Fire Department provides fire service
to another fire department pursuant to a mutual aid agreement, the billing will
be determined by the mutual aid agreement.
   (F)   Application of collections to budget. All collected fire charges will
be city funds and used to off-set the expenses of the Fire Department in
providing fire services.
(Prior Code, § 204.11)
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 32.45 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission for the city is hereby established and
shall be the municipal planning agency authorized by M.S. § 462.354, Subd. 1,
as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 205.01) (Ord. 13-04, passed 4-10-2013; Ord. 13-05, passed 10-23-
2013)
§ 32.46 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   Membership. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of not
less than five and not more than 11 members. The City Council shall select one
member of the Commission from its own membership.
   (B)   Terms and vacancies. Members of the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall be appointed and may be removed by the Council. Each member shall, before
entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, take an oath that he or she
will faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office. Members shall serve
staggered, four-year terms, without compensation. Both original and successive
appointees shall hold their offices until their successors are appointed and
qualified. Vacancies during the term shall be filled by the Council for the
unexpired portion of the term.
(Prior Code, § 205.02) (Ord. 13-04, passed 4-10-2013; Ord. 13-05, passed 10-23-
2013)
§ 32.47 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Officers. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall elect a chairperson
and secretary from among its members for a term of one year. The Commission may
create and fill such other offices as it may determine necessary to conduct
business.
   (B)   Meetings. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a regular
meeting each month unless a lack of agenda items renders a meeting unnecessary.
The Commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep
a record of its resolutions, transactions and findings and recommendations,
which records shall be of public record.
   (C)   Expenditures. The Planning and Zoning Commission’s expenditures shall
be within amounts appropriated for the purpose by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 205.03) (Ord. 13-04, passed 4-10-2013; Ord. 13-05, passed 10-23-
2013)
§ 32.48 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the powers and duties given
planning agencies generally by law. The Commission shall also exercise the
duties conferred upon it by this subchapter and by the Council. The Commission
shall prepare and recommend a Comprehensive Plan for adoption by the City
Council. The Commission shall periodically, but at least every two years,
review the Comprehensive Plan, any ordinances and any capital improvement
program the Council has adopted to implement the plan. After such review, the
Commission shall, to the extent it deems necessary, revise the Comprehensive
Plan, adopt the amendments or the new Comprehensive Plan and recommend it to
the Council in accordance with law. Similarly, after such review, it shall
recommend to the Council any amendments it deems desirable to the capital
improvement program and any ordinance implementing the plan.
(Prior Code, § 205.04) (Ord. 13-04, passed 4-10-2013; Ord. 13-05, passed 10-23-
2013)
CHAPTER 33: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
33.01   Adopted by reference
§ 33.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Any fees referenced in the city code shall be in the amounts established by
the City Council and adopted by resolution as amended from time to time. A full
copy of the fee schedule can be accessed online or at city hall by request.
(Prior Code, Ch. 10) (Ord. 2023-04, passed 12-27-2023)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
Local Housing Trust Fund
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   Funding sources
   
34.04   Use of funds and distributions
   
34.05   Term of affordability
   
34.06   Administration of Local Housing Trust Fund
LOCAL HOUSING TRUST FUND
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Authority. This chapter is adopted pursuant to M.S. § 462C.16, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Purpose. Pursuant to M.S. § 462C.16, as it may be amended from time to
time, there is hereby created and established for the City of Lewiston, a fund
to be known and denominated as the City of Lewiston Housing Trust Fund (the
"Housing Trust Fund"). The Housing Trust Fund shall be a permanent source of
funding and a continually renewable source of revenue to meet, in part, the
housing needs of moderate, low income and very low-income households, as
defined by HUD, of the county. The Housing Trust Fund shall provide loans and
grants to property owners, homeowners, local units of government, for-profit
housing developers, and nonprofit housing developers for the following
purposes: (1) acquisition, capital and soft costs necessary for the creation of
new affordable and workforce housing (both rental and owner-occupied); (2)
acquisition, rehabilitation, capital and soft costs necessary for the
preservation of existing affordable and workforce housing (both rental and
owner-occupied); (3) acquisition, capital and soft costs necessary for the
creation of new mixed income housing (both rental and owner-occupied); (4) the
rehabilitation of the existing housing stock; (5) assist with funding of
programs that prevent and end homelessness; and (6) other housing expenditures
that are consistent with M.S. § 462C.16, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from
time to time. Projects funded by the Housing Trust Fund shall be dispersed
throughout the City of Lewiston.
(Ord. 2025-03, passed 8-27-2025)
§ 34.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Economic Development Authority (EDA) for the City of
Lewiston.
   AFFORDABLE. A housing unit that has an affordable housing cost.
   AFFORDABLE HOUSING COST. An amount satisfied by:
      (1)   For owner-occupied housing, a housing payment inclusive ofloan
principal, loan interest, property taxes, property and mortgage insurance, and
homeowner association dues which allows a moderate, low or very low-income
household to purchase a home while paying no more than 30% of their gross
household income.
      (2)   For rental or cooperative housing, a housing payment, inclusive of
a reasonable allowance for heating, which allows a moderate, low or very low
income household to rent a unit while paying no more than 30% of their gross
household income.
   AREA MEDIAN INCOME. The income guidelines established and published annually
by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   ASSISTED UNIT. A housing unit that is affordable because of assistance from
the Housing Trust Fund.
   EDA. The Economic Development Authority of the Lewiston, Minnesota.
   HOUSING TRUST FUND. The City of Lewiston Housing Trust Fund.
   HOUSING TRUST FUND BOARD. The Economic Development Authority (EDA) for the
City of Lewiston.
   JURISDICTION. Includes the City of Lewiston, Minnesota only.
   LOW INCOME. Gross household income that is at or below 80% of area median
income, but more than 50% of area median income.
   MIXED INCOME HOUSING. A residential structure that comprises differing
levels of affordability, with some units at market rate and others available to
low- and moderate-income households at below-market rates.
   MODERATE INCOME. Gross household income that is at or below 115% of area
median income, but more than 80% of area median income.
   PERMANENT SOURCE OF FUNDING. Once funds are allocated to the Housing Trust
those funds can only be expended for purposes outlined in §
34.04.
   PROJECT. A single-family house (attached or detached) or a multifamily
property, either as owner-occupied property or rental property.
   RECIPIENT. Any homeowner, for-profit, non-profit or local unit of government
housing developer that receives funds in the form of a loan or a grant from the
Housing Trust Fund Account. A RECIPIENT may be an individual, partnership,
local unit of government, joint venture limited liability company or
partnership, association or corporation.
   VERY LOW INCOME. Gross household income that is at or below 50% of area
median income.
   WORKFORCE HOUSING. Owner-occupied or rental housing units that are provided
to households with at least one member per unit who is gainfully employed at
the time of entry into the unit.
(Ord. 2025-03, passed 8-27-2025)
§ 34.03 FUNDING SOURCES.
   (A)   There is also hereby established a City of Lewiston Housing Trust Fund
Account, to be maintained by the Administrator, EDA on behalf of the Trust
Fund, funds shall be deposited in the Trust Fund Account. Principal and
interest from loan repayments, and all other income from Trust Fund activities,
shall be deposited in the Trust Fund Account. All interest earnings from the
Trust Fund Account shall be reinvested and dedicated to the Trust Fund Account.
   (B)   Pursuant to M.S. § 462C.16, Subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to
time, and as determined by the City Council, the Local Housing Trust Fund may
be funded from multiple sources, which may include, but are not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Budgeted allocation of funds from the city's Economic Development
Authority (EDA) or Housing and Redevelopment Authority levy as approved by the
Economic Development Authority and the City Council.
      (2)   Private cash donations and contributions from individuals,
organizations, and businesses designated for the Local Housing Trust Fund.
      (3)   Grants and loans from a federal, state, or local government or
other private sources.
      (4)   Bond proceeds.
      (5)   Employer based funds and matches.
      (6)   Other sources to be considered include contributions made by local
or regional utility companies, specific county departments, specific county
program funds, cities and/or townships, and non-profit organizations.
      (7)   Payments in lieu of participation in current or future affordable
housing programs.
      (8)   Matching funds from a federal or state Local Housing Trust Fund; or
a state program designated to fund a Local Housing Trust Fund.
      (9)   Principal and interest from Local Housing Trust Fund loan
repayments and all other income from Local Housing Trust Fund activities,
including but not limited to investment earnings.
      (10)   Application fees - projects applying for funds.
      (11)   The sale of real and personal property as approved and as
designated by the City Council.
      (12)   Local government appropriations, development fees and other funds
as designated from time to time by the City Council.
      (13)   Tax increment finance (TIF) pooled funds. Tax increment returned
to the city after decertification of a TIF district.
      (14)   Any other appropriations or sources of funding as determined and
approved from time to time by action of the City of Lewiston Council.
(Ord. 2025-03, passed 8-27-2025)
§ 34.04 USE OF FUNDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 462C.16, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time,
funds in the Local Housing Trust Fund may only be used for the following:
   (A)   The Housing Trust Fund is to function as a resource to fund loans and
grants in strict accordance with this section. The Administrator, EDA, shall
review and adopt a policy to establish the process and other administrative
parameters of the loans and grants permitted by the Housing Trust Fund. The
Housing Trust Fund shall be administered by the EDA. No disbursements may be
made from the Housing Trust Fund Account without the prior approval of the City
Council.
   (B)   Name approving body is the City Council of Lewiston.
   (C)   Disbursements from the Housing Trust Fund Account shall be made as
loans or grants to assist recipients in the creation of assisted units and
administrative fees not to exceed 10%. Recipients may use the funds to pay for:
capital costs, including but not limited to the actual costs of rehabilitating
or constructing assisted units; preserving affordable units; demolishing or
converting existing non-residential buildings to create new assisted units;
real property acquisition costs; down payment assistance; rental assistance;
home buyer counseling services; and professional service costs, including but
not limited to, those costs incurred for architectural, engineering, planning
and legal services which are attributable to the creation of assisted units.
   (D)   All projects must be reviewed by the City Administrator. City
Administrator will submit comments and recommendations to the Lewiston EDA
Board of Commissioners. The EDA Board of Commissioners will provide
disbursement recommendations to the City Council for approval.
   (E)   Projects funded by the Housing Trust Fund shall be dispersed
throughout the City of Lewiston.
   (F)   Making grants, loans, and loan guarantees for the development,
rehabilitation, or financing of housing.
   (G)   Matching other funds from federal, state, or private resources for
housing projects.
   (H)   Providing down payment assistance, rental assistance, and home buyer
counseling services.
   (I)   Payment of administrative expenses of the Local Housing Trust Fund in
the maximum amount of 10% of the balance of the Local Housing Trust Fund.
   (J)   Financing the acquisition, demolition, and disposition of property for
housing projects.
   (K)   Financing construction of public improvements and utilities to aid
proposed residential developments.
   (L)   Financing the rehabilitation, remodeling, or new construction of
housing.
   (M)   Interim financing of public costs for housing projects in anticipation
of a permanent financing source (i.e., construction financing, bond sale,
etc.).
   (N)   Other uses as permitted by law and approved by City Council.
(Ord. 2025-03, passed 8-27-2025)
§ 34.05 TERM OF AFFORDABILITY.
   Preference shall be given to those projects that ensure that the assisted
units remain affordable for the longest period possible. Affordability period
requirements for Housing Trust Fund programs may be determined by a policy
adopted by the City Council.
   (A)   Assisted units shall be deed-restricted to ensure long term
affordability.
   (B)   The City of Lewiston Housing Trust Fund will enter into loan and grant
agreements with the recipients of the Housing Trust Fund monies. Each agreement
will clearly state the conditions and requirements for the recipient's use of
Housing Trust Fund monies, including the term of compliance, transfer or sale
requirements and other requirements as specified.
   (C)   In those cases where an assisted unit is sold or transferred prior to
the expiration of the agreed-upon term, or where an assisted unit is no longer
affordable, the initial recipient of assistance from the Trust Fund shall be
obligated to repay to the Trust Fund the original amount of the loan or grant.
   (D)   The City of Lewiston Housing Trust Fund shall enforce all debt and
lien instruments to the fullest extent of the law. The City of Lewiston Housing
Trust Fund may recommend debt settlement offers, if it is determined to be in
the best interest of the Housing Trust Fund.
(Ord. 2025-03, passed 8-27-2025)
§ 34.06 ADMINISTRATION OF LOCAL HOUSING TRUST FUND.
   (A)   The Economic Development Authority in and for the city (the "EDA")
shall administer the Local Housing Trust Fund on behalf of the city.
   (B)   Terms and conditions of repayment. The EDA shall determine the terms
and conditions of repayment of loans and grants from the Local Housing Trust
Fund, including but not limited to, the appropriate security and interest, if
any, should repayment be required. Interest on loans and grants shall be as
established by the EDA from time to time or at the time of approval of a
specific project or program.
   (C)   Annual report. The EDA shall report annually to the city on the use of
the Local Housing Trust Fund. The City of Lewiston EDA shall within 30 days
following the close of each fiscal year prepare and submit an annual report to
the City Council on the activities undertaken with funds from the Housing Trust
Fund. The report shall specify the number and types of units assisted; the
amount loaned or granted per assisted unit; the amount of state, federal and
private funds leveraged; the geographic distribution of assisted units; and a
summary of statistical data relative to the incomes of assisted households,
including their monthly rent or mortgage payments, and the sales prices of
owner-occupied assisted units, including the number of loans and grants made,
the number and types of residential units assisted, and the number of
households provided with rental assistance and down payment assistance.
(Ord. 2025-03, passed 8-27-2025)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER SYSTEM
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   GARBAGE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Water and Sewer Department
   
50.02   Use of water or sewer system restricted
   
50.03   Applications for service
   
50.04   Accounting, billing and collection
§ 50.01 WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby established a Water and Sewer Department, which shall be
under the supervision of the Superintendent. The Department shall be
responsible for the management, maintenance, care and operation of the
waterworks and sanitary sewerage system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 401.01)
§ 50.02 USE OF WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM RESTRICTED.
   No person shall make or use any water or sewer service installation
connected to the city water or sewer system except pursuant to application and
permit as provided in this chapter. No person shall make or use any such
installation contrary to the regulatory provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 401.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 APPLICATIONS FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Procedure. Applications for a water or sewer service installation and
for water service shall be made to the Superintendent on forms prescribed by
the Council and furnished by the city. By his or her signature, the applicant
shall agree to conform to this chapter and to rules and regulations that may be
established by the city as conditions for the use of water.
   (B)   Connection fees. When a connection requires installation of a service
line from the main to the property line, the applicant for a permit shall pay
to the city an amount not less than the cost of making the necessary
connection, taps and installation of pipe and appurtenances to provide service
to the property and the necessary street repairs. The minimum fee shall be as
set forth from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Certification. No permit shall be issued to connect with any water or
sanitary sewer main unless the property owner certifies to the truth of one of
the following or the payment required in division (B) above is made:
      (1)   The lot or tract to be served has been assessed for the cost of
construction of the main with which the connection is made or that proceedings
for levying such assessment have been or will be commenced in due course;
      (2)   The cost of construction of the main has been paid by the developer
or builder platting the lot or tract; or
      (3)   If neither of the foregoing is true, a sum equal to the portion of
the cost constructing the main which would be assessable against the lot or
parcel has been paid to the city.
(Prior Code, § 401.03)
§ 50.04 ACCOUNTING, BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Accounts. All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner who
personally, or by his or her authorized agent, applied for such service. In the
case of rental properties, occupants may also be listed on the account. The
owner shall be liable for water and sewer services supplied to the property,
whether he or she is occupying the property or not, and any unpaid charges
shall be a lien upon the property.
   (B)   Billing. Water and sewer charges shall be billed on one bill as
applicable to each account. All bills shall contain the address and telephone
number of city hall. Bills shall be mailed to the customers on or before the
eighteenth day of each month and specify the water consumed and the sewer
charges in accordance with the current fee schedule as set by the City Council.
All charges for water and sewer shall be due by the first day of the following
month, unless the first is on a Saturday, Sunday or city-recognized holiday, at
which times, the charges are due the next business day.
   (C)   Delinquent accounts. All charges for water and sewer not received by
the due date will be considered delinquent.
      (1)   Penalties. A late payment penalty set by the City Council shall be
assessed on all accounts with a past due balance. Penalties are not applied to
the taxes or required state fees.
      (2)   Certification for collection with taxes. At least once a year, on
or before October 15, the City Administrator shall provide to the City Council
a list of all city utility accounts, unless exempt for legal reasons, which are
30 days or more delinquent to the City Council for consideration to be assessed
and collected with the next year’s property taxes. Before unpaid charges on
sewer and water accounts are certified to the County Auditor, the city will
provide notice of a certification hearing to the owner of the premises
involved. The notice shall be sent by first class mail and shall state that if
payment is not made before the date for certification, the entire amount unpaid
plus penalties and applicable fees will be certified to the County Auditor for
collection as other taxes are collected and as an assessment against the
property pursuant to the state statutes. The notice shall also state that the
occupant may, before such certification date, attend a hearing on the matter to
object to certification of unpaid utility charges. The owner of the property
shall have the option of paying the balance due on the account until the date
the notice of the certification hearing is mailed.
         (a)   Certification hearing. The City Council shall hold a
certification hearing at which property owners with unpaid utility charges
shall have the opportunity to object to the certification of unpaid charges to
be collected as taxes are collected. If, after the hearing, the City Council
finds that the amounts claimed as delinquent are actually due and unpaid and
that there is no legal reason why the unpaid charges should not be certified
for collection with taxes in accordance with this chapter, the city may, by
resolution, certify the unpaid charges to the County Auditor for collection as
other taxes are collected.
         (b)   Owner’s options. For each certification sustained, the property
owner shall have the following options after the hearing:
            1.   To pay the delinquent amount listed on the preliminary roll,
but without additional interest after the hearing, within seven days of the
hearing date; or
            2.   To pay the certified charges as billed to them by the county
on their property tax statement with a collection term of one year.
         (c)   Delivery of certified roll. Within eight to ten days after the
hearing, the certified roll, minus any payments, shall be delivered to the
County Auditor.
   (D)   Other remedies. In addition to any procedures or penalties provided
for in this chapter, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with
any provision of this chapter, the Council or any city official designated by
it may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to procure payment
and to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 401.04) (Ord. 12-03, passed 9-26-2012)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SYSTEM
Section
   
51.01   General water regulations
   
51.02   Meters
   
51.03   Plumbing regulations
   
51.04   Water rates
   
51.05   State Building Code
§ 51.01 GENERAL WATER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Discontinuance of service. The city may discontinue service to any
water consumer without notice for necessary repairs, or upon notice as provided
in §
51.04(C), for non-payment of charges, or for violation of rules and regulations
affecting utility service. In the event of a bankruptcy filing of an account,
an account has been habitually delinquent, or service has been discontinued,
the Council may require a reasonable deposit before reconnection to water
service.
   (B)   Supply from one service. No more than one house or building shall be
supplied from one service connection except by special permission of the
Council. Whenever two or more buildings are supplied from one pipe connecting
with a service main, each building shall have a separate stop box and separate
meter.
   (C)   Turning on water; tapping mains. No person except an authorized city
employee shall turn on any water supply at the stop box or tap any distributing
main or pipe of the water supply system or insert a stop cock or other
appurtenance therein.
   (D)   Repair of leaks. The consumer or owner shall be responsible for
maintaining the service pipe from the curb box into the building served. If he
or she fails to repair any leak in such service pipe within 24 hours after
notice by the city, the city may turn the water off. When the waste of water is
great and damage is likely to result from the leak, the city shall turn the
water off immediately upon the giving of notice if repair is not commenced
immediately.
   (E)   Use of fire hydrants. No person other than an authorized city employee
shall operate a fire hydrant or interfere in any way with the city water system
without first obtaining authority to do so from the Water Superintendent.
   (F)   Private water supply. No water pipe of the city water supply system
shall be connected with any pump, well or tank that is connected with any other
source of water supply. When any such connection is found, the Water Department
shall notify the owner to sever the connection and if this is not done
immediately, the city shall turn off the water supply forthwith. Before any new
connection to the city system is permitted, the Department shall ascertain that
no cross-connection will exist when the new connection is made.
   (G)   Restricted hours. Whenever the Council determines that a shortage of
water supply threatens the city, it may, by resolution, limit the times and
hours during which city water may be used for sprinkling, irrigation, car
washing, air conditioning or other specified uses. After publication of the
resolution or two days after the mailing of the resolution to each customer, no
person shall use or permit water to be used in violation of the resolution and
any customer who does so shall be charged an amount as set forth from time to
time by resolution of the City Council for each day of violation and the charge
shall be added to his or her next water bill. If the emergency requires
immediate compliance with terms of the resolution, the Council may provide for
the delivery of a copy of the resolution to the premises of each customer, and
any customer who has received such notice and thereafter uses or permits water
to be used in violation of the resolution shall be subject to the charge
provided above. Continued violation shall be cause for discontinuance of water
service.
   (H)   Permitting use by others. No person shall permit city water to be used
for any purpose except upon his or her own premises except in an emergency and
then only if written permission is first obtained from the Water Department.
Anyone wishing to obtain water from a hydrant for construction purposes shall
make application to the Water Department for such services.
(Prior Code, § 402.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.02 METERS.
   (A)   Meters required. Except for extinguishment of fires, no person other
than an authorized city employee shall use water from the city water supply
system or permit water to be drawn therefrom unless the water passes through a
meter supplied or approved by the city. No person not authorized by the Water
Department shall connect, disconnect, take apart or in any manner change or
interfere with any such meter or its use.
   (B)   Maintenance. The city shall maintain and repair at its expense any
meter that has become unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear and shall
replace it if necessary. Where repair or replacement is made necessary by act
or neglect of the owner or occupant of the premises it serves, any city expense
caused thereby shall be charged against and collected from the water consumer,
and water service may be discontinued until the cause is corrected and the
amount charged is paid.
   (C)   Complaints; meter testing. When a consumer complains that the bill for
any past service period is excessive, the city shall have the meter re-read on
request. If the consumer remains dissatisfied, and he or she may, on written
request and the deposit of an amount as set forth from time to time by
resolution of the City Council, have the meter tested. If the test shows an
error in the city’s favor exceeding 5% of the water consumed, the deposit shall
be refunded, an accurate meter shall be installed and the bill shall be
adjusted accordingly. Such adjustment shall not extend back more than one
service period from the date of the written request.
   (D)   Meters property of city. Water meters shall be the property of the
city and may be removed or replaced as to size and type when deemed necessary.
   (E)   Meter reading and inspection. Authorized meter readers shall have free
access at reasonable hours of the day to all parts of every building and
premises connected with the city water supply system in order to read meters
and make inspections.
(Prior Code, § 402.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 PLUMBING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Service pipes. Every service pipe shall be laid with sufficient bend
to allow not less than one foot of extra length and in such manner as to
prevent rupture by settlement. The service pipe shall be placed not less than
six feet below the surface and be so arranged as to prevent rupture by
freezing. A shut-off or full port ball or gate valve of the size and strength
required shall be placed close to the inside wall of the building and be well
protected from freezing. Copper tubing shall be used for all services of two
inches or less. Joints on copper tubing shall be as few as possible and not
more than one joint shall be used for a service up to 70 feet in length. Each
joint over two inches shall be cast iron or approved plastic. Connections with
the mains for domestic supply shall be at least one inch in diameter.
   (B)   Water meter setting. Every water meter installed in new construction
shall be in accordance with the following provisions.
      (1)   The service pipe from the water main to the meter shall be brought
through the floor in a vertical position where the pipe enters the building.
The full port ball or gate valve shall be 12 inches above the floor.
      (2)   The bottom of the meter shall be 12 inches above the finished floor
line. The meter shall be set not more than 12 inches horizontally from the
inside line of the basement wall unless a different position is approved by the
Water Department. A suitable bracket shall be provided to support the meter in
a proper vertical position and prevent noise from vibration.
      (3)   Each meter installation shall have a full port ball or gate valve
on the street side of the meter. In no case shall more than 12 inches of pipe
be exposed between the point of entrance through the basement floor and the
full port ball or gate valve. A full port ball or gate valve shall also be
installed on the house side of the meter.
      (4)   The water pipe connecting with the main shall not exceed two feet
under the basement floor from the inside of the basement wall to the water
meter connection.
      (5)   Meter setting devices for five-eighths inch, three-fourths inch and
one-inch meters shall be of copper pipe or tubing from the terminus of the
service pipe up to and including the full port ball or gate valve on the
building side.
   (C)   Location of stop boxes. Curb stop boxes shall be installed generally
where desired by the owners of occupied premises, but they shall be placed as
near as possible to the curb if on a street or within one foot of the alley
line if the main is located in the alley. They shall be installed at an
approximate depth of seven feet below the established grade and shall be left
in an accurate vertical position when backfilling is completed.
(Prior Code, § 402.03)
§ 51.04 WATER RATES.
   Each water user shall pay a service charge each month during which water
service is furnished as determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 402.05)
§ 51.05 STATE BUILDING CODE.
   If any regulation contained herein fails to cover, contradicts or implies a
lower standard of material or labor than the corresponding regulation or
standard contained in the current State Building Code, the State Building Code
provisions shall supersede and control.
(Prior Code, § 402.05)
Cross-reference:
   State Building Code, see §
150.03
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
   
52.01   Building sewers and connections
   
52.02   Sewer system general regulations
   
52.03   Industrial wastewater pretreatment
   
52.04   Sewer connection required
   
52.05   Sewer rates
§ 52.01 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Unauthorized connections. No person shall uncover, make any connection
with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance
without first obtaining permission from the city and otherwise complying with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Liability insurance. Before undertaking any connection to city sewer
lines, the plumbing contractor or owner shall secure and maintain a policy of
insurance against damages to property or injuries or death to persons. The
policy shall name the city as an additional insured for the project. The
property damage insurance coverage shall be in the amount and form as may be
required by the city. Proof of such insurance shall be filed with the city
prior to commencement of the work and such policy shall provide that the city
shall be notified immediately of any termination or modification of such
insurance. If the insurance coverage be inadequate in amount, the plumbing
contractor shall himself or herself indemnify, save and hold the city and its
personnel harmless, from all claims and suits for damages to person or property
arising out of the project, excepting only damages proximately caused by the
city’s gross negligence.
   (C)   Indemnification by owner. The owner shall bear the costs and expenses
incident to the installation and connection of the building to city sewer
lines. He or she shall indemnify the city for any loss or damage to city
property or persons directly or indirectly caused by the owner’s installation.
   (D)   Inspection and approval. The plumbing contractor shall notify the City
Superintendent when the connection to city sewer is ready for inspection. The
connection shall be made under the supervision of the City Superintendent or
his or her representative. No backfill shall be placed until the work has been
inspected and approved. The city inspection shall only be conducted to protect
the city improvements. Owners are responsible to conduct their own inspection
before, during or after connection to protect their own property from damage by
improper work of their own contractors.
   (E)   State Code. If any regulation contained herein fails to cover,
contradicts or implies a lower standard of material or labor than the
corresponding regulation or standard contained in the current State Building
Code, the State Building Code provisions shall supersede and control.
(Prior Code, § 403.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.02 SEWER SYSTEM GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Discharge of surface water and the like. No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged any storm water, surface water, ground water, cooling
water or unpolluted industrial process waters into any sanitary sewer. No rain
spout or other form of surface drainage and no foundation drainage shall be
connected with any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Non-acceptable wastes. No person shall discharge or permit to be
discharged into any public sewer any of the following wastes:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature in excess of 120ºF;
      (2)   Any water or waste having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD5) exceeding 250 mg/l as averaged during any 12-month period;
      (3)   Any wastewater having more than 750 mg/l of chemical oxygen demand
(COD);
      (4)   Any gasoline, benzine, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (5)   Any water or waste containing 150 mg/l or more of grease;
      (6)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (7)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, manure, grit, brick, cement, onyx, carbide or
other matter that may interfere with the proper operation of the sewers or
sewage treatment plant;
      (8)   Any wastewater containing more than 250 mg/l of total suspended
solids (TSS);
      (9)   Any water or waste having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage works;
      (10)   Any water or waste containing more than 20 mg/l of total kjeldahl
nitrogen (TKN);
      (11)   Any water or waste containing more than 20 mg/l of total
phosphorus;
      (12)   Any water or waste containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantities to constitute a hazard to humans or animals, injure or
interfere with sewage treatment, or create any hazard in the receiving waters
of the sewage treatment plant;
      (13)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance; or
      (14)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in a
pretreatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions.
   (C)   Interceptors. Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when
they are necessary for the proper handling of any liquid waste containing
grease in excessive amounts or any flammable waste, sand or other harmful
ingredients but such interceptors shall not be required for private living
quarters or dwelling units. Interceptors shall be located so as to be easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (D)   Control manhole required. The owner of any property served by a
building sewer carrying industrial waste shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation and sampling of the
waste. The manhole shall be constructed by the owner in accordance with plans
approved by the City Engineer. The owner shall maintain the manhole so as to be
safe and accessible at all times.
   (E)   Separate sewers. A separate and independent sewer shall be provided
for every building connected to the sewer system except that the Council may
waive this requirement where it finds that a separate sewer for a building is
impractical.
(Prior Code, § 403.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.03 INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Significant industrial user. A significant industrial user shall
include any industrial user of the city’s wastewater treatment system which
has:
      (1)   A discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average workday;
      (2)   A flow greater than 5% of the flow in the city’s wastewater
treatment system;
      (3)   In its waste toxic pollutants in toxic amounts as defined pursuant
to § 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act also known as the Clean
Water Act as amended, (33 U.S.C. § 1317) or the state statutes or state rules;
or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either individually or in combination
with other contributing industries, on the wastewater treatment system, the
quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or air emissions generated by
the system.
   (B)   Pretreatment agreements. The City Council may enter into wastewater
pretreatment agreements with any significant industrial user which shall allow
the discharge of wastewater from the industrial user to the wastewater
treatment facility operated by the city under certain limitations, conditions
and requirements for discharge. The agreements may specify the minimum
standards allowable for discharges to the city’s system, the procedures for
monitoring and enforcement, and set reasonable fees to defray the cost of
monitoring and enforcement. All such pretreatment agreements shall comply with
federal and state pollution control agencies minimum standards. The agreements
may also provide for civil or administrative penalties in the event of
violation of the agreement.
(Prior Code, § 403.03)
§ 52.04 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   General requirements. When property abuts upon any public street or
alley along which water and sewer mains have been constructed, the owner of any
dwelling or commercial establishment on the property shall install suitable
toilet facilities therein and connect them with the sanitary sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days after the date of
mailing or delivering official notice to do so. The notice shall be given to
the owner or occupant in writing by the City Administrator on order of the
Council.
   (B)   Connection by city. Whenever any owner or occupant fails to comply
with such written notice, the Council shall by resolution direct that a toilet
be installed and connection made with the water and sewer system and that the
cost of the installation be paid in the first instance out of the general fund
and then assessed against the property benefited.
   (C)   Assessment. After the installation and connection have been completed
pursuant to Council resolution, the City Administrator shall serve a written
notice of the assessment upon the owner or his or her representative directing
him or her to pay the assessment to the City Administrator within ten days
after the service of the notice. If the assessment is not paid within ten days,
the City Administrator shall certify to the County Auditor the amount for
collection in the same manner as other special assessments. The Council may by
resolution spread the assessment over a three-year period.
(Prior Code, § 403.04)
§ 52.05 SEWER RATES.
   (A)   General rates for sewer service. Each user of sewer service to
property also served by the city water system shall pay a service charge that
is equal in usage per gallon to the water bill each month. However, meters for
sprinkler systems will be billed water only.
   (B)   Rates for users not connected to water system. The rates for users not
connected to water system shall be as set forth from time to time by resolution
of the City Council.
   (C)   Special cases. In the case of an industrial or commercial user
contributing wastes to the sewage disposal system in disproportionate amounts
or concentrations, the Water and Sewer Department shall make an individual
study of the particular use and fix an individual charge that is commensurate
with the burden placed by the wastes upon the sewage treatment plant. If a
building served by sewer is not served by city water and the Council determines
that the flat rate sewer service charge inaccurately measures use of the sewer
system, it may order the installation of a water meter to measure accurately
the amount of water used on the premises. In the case of an industry using
substantial amounts of water that is not discharged into the sewer system, the
Council may order installation of a meter accurately measuring the amount of
water that enters the sewer system, and fix the sewer service charge on the
basis of such amount. Insofar as practicable, installation and maintenance of
such meters shall conform to the regulations contained in this code.
   (D)   Required information. The owner, occupant or person in charge of any
premises shall supply the city with such information as it may reasonably
require relating to use of water, use of sewer or sewer rates. Willful failure
to provide such information, willful falsification of such information or
willful failure to comply with any requirement or order issued pursuant to this
section constitutes a violation of this section.
   (E)   Disposition of revenues. All revenues derived from charges imposed
under this section shall be credited to water and sewer enterprise funds.
(Prior Code, § 403.05)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE REGULATIONS
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   General requirements
   
53.03   Disposal required
   
53.04   Containers
   
53.05   License required
   
53.06   Municipal compost and brush sites
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Organic waste resulting from the preparation of food and decayed
and spoiled food from any source.
   RECYCLABLES. Includes newsprint and other paper, certain plastic containers,
tin cans, aluminum, motor oil, clear and colored glass containers, and any
other materials which are available for pick-up within the limits of the city;
provided they are separated or otherwise prepared to be acceptable to the
recycling center conducting such collection.
   RUBBISH. Any non-recyclable inorganic solid waste such as wood products,
ceramics, ashes, sweepings, gloss paper and the like.
(Prior Code, § 502.01)
§ 53.02 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Unauthorized accumulation. Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse on
any premises is a nuisance and prohibited.
   (B)   Refuse in streets and the like. No person shall place any refuse in
any street, alley or public place or upon any private property except in proper
containers for collection. No person shall throw or deposit refuse in any
stream or other body of water.
   (C)   Scattering of refuse. No person shall deposit anywhere within the city
any refuse in such manner that it may be carried or deposited by the elements
upon any public or private premises within the city.
   (D)   Burying of refuse; composting. No person shall bury any refuse in the
city except in an approved sanitary landfill but leaves, grass, clippings and
easily biodegradable, non-poisonous garbage may be composted on the premises
where such refuse has been accumulated; provided reasonable safeguards are
taken by the owner of the premises to avoid attracting vermin or other rodents,
undue odors or fire hazards to adjacent premises. To the extent an area has
been designated by the city for composting of leaves, grass, clippings and the
like, no garbage or other types of materials shall be deposited in the compost
area.
   (E)   Recycling. To the extent curb-side pick-up is available for recyclable
materials within the city, such recyclable materials shall not be deposited in
refuse containers for collection and disposal in the landfill.
(Prior Code, § 502.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.03 DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
   Every person shall, in a sanitary manner, dispose of refuse that may
accumulate upon property owned or occupied by him or her. Garbage shall be
collected, or otherwise lawfully disposed of, at least once each week. To the
extent collection is available, every household, occupant or owner of any
premises within the city shall make reasonable efforts to make available for
recycling such materials as are currently accepted by any recycling center for
pick-up within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 502.03)
§ 53.04 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   General requirements. Every household, occupant or owner of any
residence and any restaurant, industrial establishment or commercial
establishment shall provide on the premises one or more containers to receive
and contain all refuse which may accumulate between collections. All normal
accumulations of refuse shall be deposited in such containers. Leaves,
trimmings from shrubs, grass clippings, shavings, excelsior and other rubbish
of similar volume and weight may be stored in closed containers not meeting the
requirements of division (B) below.
   (B)   Container requirements. Each container intended to be set out at
curbside for collection of refuse shall be impervious to insects and dog or cat
intrusions, be of such reasonable weight to not tip easily in average winds and
shall not exceed 96 gallons in capacity. No dumpsters or bulk-type refuse
storage containers shall be located in residential areas of the city unless
they are adequately screened by wood fence or other methods compatible with the
design of buildings in the area, such screening to prevent any such dumpster
from being visible from a public street or sidewalk. No dumpsters shall be
allowed in any case in the front yard or side yard of a property in front of
the setback line for the home and shall be allowed in side yards only if
sufficient space is left between the screened area and property line as
required in the zoning ordinance for any of the structures.
   (C)   Use of containers. Refuse shall be drained, or liquid and household
garbage shall be wrapped before being deposited in a container. Highly
flammable or explosive material shall not be placed in containers.
(Prior Code, § 502.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.05 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   License required. No person shall permit garbage to be picked up from
his or her premises by an unlicensed collector.
   (B)   Application. Any person desiring a license shall make application to
the City Administrator on a form prescribed by him or her. The application
shall set forth the name and address of the applicant, and the proposed charges
to be made of those who use the service.
   (C)   Insurance. No license shall be issued until the applicant files with
the City Administrator a current policy of public liability insurance covering
all vehicles to be used by the applicant in the licensed business. The limits
of coverage of such insurance shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of
the Council.
   (D)   License fees. Licenses shall be issued for a period of one year. The
license fee shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 502.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.06 MUNICIPAL COMPOST AND BRUSH SITES.
   (A)   Residents and property owners only. It shall be unlawful for any
person to use the designated municipal compost and brush site who is not either
a resident or a property owner within the city. No commercial contractors may
use the municipal compost and brush site.
   (B)   Approved items. Only natural soft-bodied yard waste and plant
materials may be disposed of at the municipal compost and brush site. It shall
be unlawful for any person to dispose of any materials not contained in the
following lists:
      (1)   Compost site: weeds, grass clippings, leaves, fruits and
vegetables, sod, bush trimmings, and other similar degradable items; and
      (2)   Brush site: trees, tree trunks, branches and limbs (none of these
four items to be more than eight feet in length and must be small enough to
lift with the city loader), bushes, shrubs and roots with the soil removed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
      
71.   BICYCLES, SNOWMOBILES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Turning
   
70.03   Through streets; one-way streets
   
70.04   Truck restrictions
   
70.05   Through-truck traffic restrictions
   
70.06   Parking
   
70.07   Removing keys
   
70.08   Exhibition driving prohibited
   
70.09   Police duties
   
70.10   Snow emergency
   
70.11   Use of dynamic braking device prohibited
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Any term used in this chapter and defined in M.S. § 169.01, as it may be
amended from time to time, has the meaning given it by that section.
(Prior Code, § 701.01)
§ 70.02 TURNING.
   (A)   Restrictions on turns. The Council by resolution may, whenever
necessary to preserve a free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents, designate
any intersection as one where the turning of vehicles to the left or to the
right, or both, is to be restricted at all times or during specific hours. The
city shall mark by appropriate signs any intersections so designated; provided
the consent of the Commissioner of Highways to such designation is first
obtained if the street is a state highway. No person shall turn a vehicle at
any such intersection contrary to the directions of such signs.
   (B)   U-turns. No person shall turn a vehicle so as to reverse its direction
on any street in the business district or at any intersection where traffic is
regulated by a traffic-control sign.
(Prior Code, § 701.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 THROUGH STREETS; ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The Council by resolution may designate any street or portion of a street as
a through highway or a one-way roadway where necessary to preserve the free
flow of traffic or to prevent accidents. The city shall post appropriate signs
at the entrance of such streets. No trunk highway shall be so designated unless
the consent of the Commissioner of Highways to such designation is first
secured.
(Prior Code, § 701.03)
§ 70.04 TRUCK RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Council by resolution may designate streets on which travel by
commercial vehicles in excess of five-ton axle weight is prohibited. The city
shall erect appropriate signs on such streets. No person shall operate a
commercial vehicle on such posted streets in violation of the restrictions
stated.
(Prior Code, § 701.04) Penalty, §
70.99
§ 70.05 THROUGH-TRUCK TRAFFIC RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Truck routes. It shall be unlawful for the driver or operator of any
truck or semi-tractor trailer having more than two axles to drive such vehicle
on any city street or alley in the corporate limits of the city unless such
street or alley has been designated as a truck route by the City Council.
Designated truck routes shall include South Fremont Street, Main Street and
Debra Drive. All other streets in the city are classed as two-axle streets.
Parking on truck routes for vehicles over two axles (one front and one rear) is
restricted to two hours. Engines must be turned off during this period.
   (B)   Special circumstances.
      (1)   This chapter shall not apply to drivers or operators of trucks with
over two axles when operating such trucks within the city for the purpose of
making a stop on a two-axle street to pick up or deliver construction equipment
or materials such as building material, sand, gravel, lumber, fill dirt and the
like, to a building or construction site; provided they are within the axle
weight limits for the street being traveled on. Garbage collection vehicles,
utility vehicles (such as gas, electric and telephone), city vehicles,
recreational vehicles and household moving vans are exempt from the over two-
axle prohibition.
      (2)   A truck driver or operator who must operate a vehicle over two
axles on a city street not designated as a truck route may do so during the
daytime hours of 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.; provided they observe the five-ton per
axle limit and have the engines properly muffled with a legal muffler in the
exhaust system. The operator will be allowed a one-hour stop with the engine
turned off during this period. No overnight parking is allowed on the street.
   (C)   Penalty. Any such driver or operator found in violation of this
section shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 701.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 PARKING.
   (A)   Designation of streets. The City Council may, by resolution, designate
certain streets or portions of streets as no parking or no stopping or standing
zones and may limit the hours in which the restrictions apply. The city shall
mark by appropriate signs each zone so designated. Except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or a traffic-control device, no person shall stop or park a
vehicle in an established no stopping or standing zone when stopping or
standing is prohibited. No vehicle shall be parked in a no parking zone during
hours when parking is prohibited except that a vehicle may be parked
temporarily in such zone for the purpose of forming a funeral procession and a
truck may be parked temporarily between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of
any business day for the purpose of loading or unloading where access to the
premises is not otherwise available.
   (B)   Time limit parking zones. The City Council may, by resolution,
designate certain areas where the right to park is limited during hours
specified. The city shall mark by appropriate signs each zone so designated.
During the hours specified on the sign, no person shall park a vehicle in any
limited parking zone for a longer period than is so specified.
   (C)   No truck parking zones. The Council may, by resolution, establish no
truck parking zones in the business district and the city shall mark by
appropriate signs any zones so established. Such zones shall be established in
the business district where heavy traffic by trucks or other traffic congestion
makes parking by trucks a hazard to the safety of vehicles or pedestrians.
   (D)   Winter parking. No vehicle shall be parked upon the streets of the
city so as to obstruct removal of snow from the public streets during the
periods of snow removal by the city. It shall be presumed that any vehicle
remaining on a street between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon of any
morning after two or more inches of snow have accumulated is in violation of
this provision. Employees of the city may, and the same are hereby authorized
to, remove from the city streets any such vehicle obstructing removal of snow
by tagging, towing, impounding and storing it. The person owning the vehicle or
the conservator or guardian of any person owning the vehicle may redeem the
vehicle upon payment to the City Administrator of the costs of the tagging,
towing, impoundment and storage. It shall be presumed that the owner of the
vehicle was aware of its location and obstruction of snow removal. The
violation of this provision by the owner of a vehicle shall be a misdemeanor
regardless of whether the vehicle was towed.
   (E)   Driving or parking on sidewalks. It shall be unlawful for any person
to park a motor vehicle upon or operate or drive a motor vehicle onto or over
any boulevard or sidewalk. A violation of the provisions relating to parking
shall be punishable as other parking violations in the city. A violation of the
provision relating to driving or operating shall be a misdemeanor.
   (F)   Impoundment. Any police officer may remove a vehicle from a street to
a garage or other place of safety when the vehicle is left unattended and
constitutes an obstruction of traffic or hinders snow removal as outlined in §
70.10 or street improvement or maintenance operations. The vehicle shall not be
released until the fees for towing and storage are paid in addition to any fine
imposed for violation of this chapter. The presence of any motor vehicle on any
street when standing or parked in violation of this chapter is prima facie
evidence that the registered owner of the vehicle committed or authorized the
commission of the violation.
   (G)   Truck zones, loading zones and the like. Any person desiring the
establishment of a loading zone or truck zone abutting premises occupied by him
or her shall make written application therefore to the City Council. If the
Council grants the request, the proper city officer shall bill the applicant
for the estimated cost of placing signs and painting the curb. When the amount
is paid to the City Administrator, the city shall install the necessary signs
and paint the curb.
   (H)   Semi-trailer parking. No person shall allow a semi-trailer to stand or
be parked unattended from a tractor unit for any length of time on any street
in the city except in an emergency in order to change tractors.
   (I)   General time limit. No vehicle shall be parked on any street for more
than 48 hours in the same location except on weekends or legal holidays.
   (J)   Snow emergency. A declaration from the city that no parking is allowed
on city streets to facilitate snow plowing and removal.
(Prior Code, § 701.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 REMOVING KEYS.
   No person shall leave a motor vehicle, except a truck which is engaged in
loading or unloading, unattended on any street, used car lot or unattended
parking lot without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition and
removing all ignition keys from the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 701.07) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding, swaying, throwing of sand or
gravel, or in a manner simulating a race. Unreasonable squealing or screeching
sounds emitted by tires, or the throwing of sand or gravel by the tires is
prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 701.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 POLICE DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and the
state traffic laws. Police officers are authorized to direct all traffic within
the city, either in person or by means of visible or audible signal, in
conformity with this chapter and the state traffic laws. During a fire or other
emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, officers of the
Police Department may direct traffic as conditions require notwithstanding the
provisions of this chapter and the state traffic laws. Officers of the Fire
Department may direct or assist the police in directing traffic at the scene of
a fire or in the immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 701.09)
§ 70.10 SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The city may declare a snow emergency as outlined in this section to
facilitate snow plowing and removal from city streets. A declaration of a snow
emergency overrides the winter parking provision (§
70.06(D)).
   (B)   A snow emergency may be declared at any time when at least four inches
of snow have accumulated within a period of 24 hours, or less, or with a
weather prediction of at least four inches of snow along with the possibility
of blowing snow and wind. The city shall communicate such declaration to local
news media and the city’s Facebook page. Failure to communicate with local news
media shall not invalidate such declaration.
   (C)   During a snow emergency, special parking rules shall take effect. No
vehicles shall be parked upon the streets of the city at any time. Any vehicle
remaining on a city street any time after declaration of a snow emergency is in
violation of this provision.
   (D)   Employees of the city may, and the same are hereby authorized to,
remove from the city streets any such vehicle by tagging, towing, impounding
and storing it. The person owning the vehicle or conservator or guardian of any
person owning such vehicle, may redeem the vehicle upon payment to the City
Administrator of the costs of such tagging, towing, impoundment and storage.
   (E)   During a declared snow emergency, vehicles may be parked in the
municipal lot on Harrison Street, the municipal lot adjacent to city hall or
the municipal lot located at the dog park on Fremont Street.
   (F)   The city may extend a snow emergency if, at least two hours before the
expiration of the initial or any extension of a snow emergency, a declaration
of extension is made by communicating the same to local news media and the
city’s Facebook page. The snow emergency shall then be extended for an
additional 24-hour period. If a snow emergency has not been extended, it shall
expire 24 hours following the original declaration or extension declaration.
Failure to communicate with local news media shall not invalidate an extension
declaration.
   (G)   Violation of the parking provisions of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor regardless of whether the vehicle was towed.
(Prior Code, § 701.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 USE OF DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICE (JACOB’S BRAKE, ENGINE BRAKE OR COMPRESSION
BRAKE). A device primarily on trucks for the conversion of the engine from an
internal combustion engine to an air compressor for the purpose of braking
without the use of wheel brakes.
   (B)   Use prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to operate any motor
vehicle with a dynamic braking device engaged, except for the aversion of
imminent danger within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 701.12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter for
which no other penalty is mentioned is guilty of a petty misdemeanor as set
forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   The owner of a vehicle in violation of the winter parking provision in
§
70.04, regardless of whether or not the vehicle is towed may be fined for the
first offense. Subsequent violations remain a misdemeanor and may require an
appearance in court. All other parking violations, unless the specific
provision provides otherwise, shall be punishable by a fine. Failure to pay
parking fines and all other violations of this chapter, except driving on
sidewalks, shall be a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 701.10)
CHAPTER 71: BICYCLES, SNOWMOBILES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
71.01   General regulations
Snowmobiles
   
71.15   Operation of snowmobiles within the city
Special Vehicles
   
71.30   Operation of special vehicles within the city
   
71.31   Definitions
   
71.32   Required permit
   
71.33   Conditions
   
71.34   Revocation or denial of permit
   
71.35   Limitation of liability
   
71.36   City use authorized
 
   
71.99   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 71.01 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   Every person operating or parking a bicycle within the city limits shall
comply with all provisions of M.S. § 169.222, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Prior Code, § 703.01)
SNOWMOBILES
§ 71.15 OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES WITHIN THE CITY.
   It is hereby declared to be in the best interest of the public safety and
welfare to provide for the regulation and control of snowmobiles upon the
public streets, parks and thoroughfares within the city; further that
snowmobiles are deemed to be and are commonly considered as recreational
vehicles whereas the public streets and thoroughfares are primarily designed to
accommodate the convenience and needs of the general public for transportation
purposes.
   (A)   General regulations. Snowmobiles when traveling within the city limits
in groups of two or more, shall proceed in single file, at a speed not to
exceed 20 mph and shall come to a complete stop at any intersection whether or
not the same is designated as a stop street, and shall yield the right-of-way
to all oncoming traffic which constitutes an immediate hazard. All snowmobiles
operating within the city shall be equipped in conformity to M.S. §§ 84.86 and
84.862, as they may be amended from time to time, and regulations of the State
Commissioner of Conservation promulgated under such statutes.
   (B)   Restrictions. No snowmobile shall be operated upon city streets of the
city between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. nor upon the sidewalks or boulevards of
such streets at any time; except that the hour of operation shall not be
applicable to persons operating snowmobiles returning directly to their places
of residence from outside the city. The burden of proving destination shall be
on the operator. It is further declared to be unlawful for any snowmobile to be
operated upon or over any private yard, lot or public grounds without the
consent of the owner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 702.01) Penalty, see §
71.99
SPECIAL VEHICLES
§ 71.30 OPERATION OF SPECIAL VEHICLES WITHIN THE CITY.
   The operation of motorized golf carts, all-terrain vehicles or utility task
vehicles is authorized on designated roadways in the city by permit only,
pursuant to the authority given to the city by M.S. § 169.045, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 704.01) (Ord. 14-01, passed 5-28-2014)
§ 71.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV. A motorized flotation-tired vehicle of not less
than three low pressure tires, but not more than six tires, that is limited in
engine displacement of less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and includes a Class 1
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE and Class 2 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. A Class 1 ALL-TERRAIN
VEHICLE has a total dry weight of less than 1,000 pounds. A Class 2 ALL-TERRAIN
VEHICLE has a total dry weight of 1,000 to 1,800 pounds.
   DESIGNATED ROADWAYS. City streets, avenues and alleys not specifically
excluded in this subchapter. It does not mean United States or state trunk
highways or county highways or county state-aid highways unless permitted by
county ordinance.
   MOTORIZED GOLF CART. A vehicle commonly known as a golf cart, having at
least four wheels and either an electric or a gas motor.
   UTILITY TASK VEHICLE or UTV. A side-by-side, four-wheel drive, off-road
vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an internal combustion engine
with a piston displacement capacity of 1,200 cubic centimeters or less and has
a total dry weight of 1,800 but less than 2,600 pounds.
(Prior Code, § 704.02) (Ord. 14-01, passed 5-28-2014)
§ 71.32 REQUIRED PERMIT.
   (A)   No person may operate a motorized golf cart, ATV or UTV pursuant to
this section without a valid permit from the city.
   (B)   Permit applications shall be available at the City Administrator’s
office and shall be in a form approved by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   At the time of application, the applicant shall:
      (1)   Provide evidence of insurance complying with the provisions of M.S.
§ 65B.48, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time. In the event persons
operating a motorized golf cart, ATV or UTV under this section cannot obtain
liability insurance in the private market, that person may purchase automobile
insurance, including no-fault coverage, from the state automobile insurance
plan under M.S. §§ 65B.01 to 65B.12, as they may be amended from time to time,
at a rate determined by the Commissioner of Commerce; and
      (2)   Provide all other information as may be required by resolution of
the City Council.
   (D)   All permits granted pursuant to this section shall be issued for a
period not to exceed one year and may be renewed annually by complying with the
requirements of this section.
   (E)   The City Council shall set fees for such permits by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 704.03) (Ord. 14-01, passed 5-28-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.33 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart, ATV or UTV under this
subchapter:
      (1)   If under the age of 16 years;
      (2)   Except on designated roadways and from sunrise to sunset, unless
equipped with original equipment headlights, taillights and rear-facing brake
lights;
      (3)   In inclement weather or when visibility is impaired by weather,
smoke, fog or other conditions, or at any time when there is insufficient
visibility to clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a distance of
500 feet;
      (4)   Unless the vehicle is equipped with a rear-view mirror as provided
in M.S. § 169.70, as it may be amended from time to time; or
      (5)   With a passenger or passengers unless each such passenger is seated
on a seat specifically designed for the transport of passengers.
   (B)   Motorized golf carts shall display the slow-moving vehicle emblem
provided for in M.S. § 169.522, as it may be amended from time to time, when
operated on designated roadways.
   (C)   The operator of a motorized golf cart, ATV or UTV under permit on
designated roadways shall have all the rights and duties applicable to the
driver of any other vehicle under the provisions of M.S. Chapter 169, as it may
be amended from time to time, except when those provisions cannot reasonably be
applied to a motorized golf cart, ATV or UTV.
(Prior Code, § 704.04) (Ord. 14-01, passed 5-28-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.34 REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   A permit may be revoked by the Chief of Police at any time or denied if it
is shown that the motorized golf cart, ATV or UTV is not safely or legally
operated or has not been safely or legally operated within the city. The owner
of the permitted vehicle may appeal any such revocation or denial to the City
Council by filing notice of appeal at city hall not later than 14 days after
the date of notice of the revocation or denial action.
(Prior Code, § 704.05) (Ord. 14-01, passed 5-28-2014)
§ 71.35 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as an assumption of liability by
the city for any injuries to persons or property which may result from the
operation of a permitted motorized golf cart, ATV or UTV, the grant of such
permit or the failure by the city to revoke said permit.
(Prior Code, § 704.06) (Ord. 14-01, passed 5-28-2014)
§ 71.36 CITY USE AUTHORIZED.
   Authorized city staff may operate a city-owned motorized golf cart, ATV or
UTV without obtaining a permit within the city when conducting city business.
(Prior Code, § 704.07) (Ord. 14-01, passed 5-28-2014)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §
71.15 shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor and fined as set forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 702.01)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
71.30 through
71.36 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and is subject to having the
permit under this section revoked.
(Prior Code, § 704.03) (Ord. 14-01, passed 5-28-2014)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE REGULATIONS
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Loud parties or noise
   
90.02   Park hours
Abandoned Property
   
90.15   Abandoned motor vehicles
   
90.16   Other abandoned property
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 LOUD PARTIES OR NOISE.
   (A)   Unreasonable noise prohibited in residential areas. No person shall
produce loud conversations, amplified music or unnecessary noise in sufficient
volume to disturb the peace, quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any
residential dwelling, or yard or balcony adjacent to such dwelling. The
production of unreasonable noise shall include amplified sounds emanating from
portable stereos or radios on streets or sidewalks, or emanating from vehicles
driven on streets in residential areas.
(Prior Code, § 805.01)
   (B)   Persons responsible. The owner of the premises or the person entitled
to possession thereof, including any lessee, shall be responsible for the
production of unreasonable noise from the premises.
(Prior Code, § 805.02)
   (C)   Standard of excessive volume. It shall be a prima facie determination
of excessive volume or unreasonable noise if a police officer can detect such
sound standing outside of the property line of the premises from which the
noise is emanating, and such sound is louder than usual conversation. It shall
be a prima facie determination of excessive volume or unreasonableness of the
noise emanating from a motor vehicle or hand-carried stereo outside of a
building, if a police officer can hear the sound more than one block away from
the vehicle or stereo and determine its source.
(Prior Code, § 805.03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 PARK HOURS.
   No person, except police officers and employees of the city, shall be
allowed in any city park between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. each
day.
(Prior Code, § 804.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
ABANDONED PROPERTY
§ 90.15 ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Impoundment and sale. The Police Department may take into custody and
impound any abandoned vehicle, junk vehicle or unauthorized vehicle as defined
by M.S. § 168B.011, Subd. 2, 3 and 4, as they be amended from time to time. It
shall give notice of the taking as provided by law and if the owner or any
lienholder does not reclaim the vehicle within the period provided by law, it
shall provide for the sale of the vehicle to the highest bidder at public
auction or sale.
   (B)   Notice and sale. An impounded junk vehicle or abandoned vehicle may be
sold under M.S. § 168B.08, as it may be amended from time to time, 15 days
after notice to the owner. An impounded unauthorized vehicle is eligible for
disposal or sale under M.S. § 168B.08, as it may be amended from time to time,
45 days after notice to the owner. When an impounded vehicle is taken into
custody, either the city or the impound lot operator taking it into custody
shall give notice of the taking to the owner within ten days. The notice shall
set forth the date and place of the taking, the year, make, model and serial
number of the impounded vehicle if such information can be reasonably obtained
in the place where the vehicle is being held. The notice shall inform the owner
and any lienholders of their right to reclaim the vehicle under M.S. § 168B.07,
as it may be amended from time to time, and state that the failure to reclaim
within the appropriate time allowed as stated above shall be deemed a waiver of
all right, title and interest in the vehicle and contents, and a consent to the
transfer of title and disposal or sale of the vehicle and contents pursuant to
M.S. § 168B.08, as it may be amended from time to time. The notice must be sent
by mail to the registered owner, if any, and to all readily identifiable
lienholders of record. The Police Department shall make this information
available to all impound lot operators for notification purposes if the impound
lot operator is to be responsible for giving such notice. If it is impossible
to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and address of the
registered owner and all lienholders, the notice shall be published once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the area where the motor vehicle was towed
from or abandoned. In the event an unauthorized vehicle remains unclaimed after
30 days from the date the notice was first sent, a second notice shall be sent
by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the registered owner, if any
and to all identifiable lienholders of record.
   (C)   Disposition of proceeds. The proceeds of the sale of an abandoned
motor vehicle shall be placed in the general fund of the city. If the former
owner or entitled lienholder makes application and furnishes satisfactory proof
of ownership or lien interest within 90 days of sale, he or she shall be paid
the proceeds of the sale of the vehicle less the cost of towing, preserving and
storing the vehicle and all administrative, notice and publication costs
incurred in its handling.
(Prior Code, § 808.01)
§ 90.16 OTHER ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Procedure. All other property lawfully coming into the possession of
the city shall be disposed of as provided in this section.
   (B)   Storage. The department of the city acquiring possession of the
property shall arrange for its storage. If city facilities for storage are
unavailable or inadequate, the department may arrange for storage at privately-
owned facilities.
   (C)   Claim by owner. The owner may claim the property by exhibiting
satisfactory proof of ownership and paying the city any storage or maintenance
costs incurred by it. A receipt for the property shall be obtained upon release
to the owner.
   (D)   Sale. If the property remains unclaimed in the possession of the city
for 60 days, the property shall be sold to the highest bidder at a public
auction conducted by the Chief of Police after ten days’ published notice
setting forth the time and place of the sale and the property to be sold.
   (E)   Disposition of proceeds. The proceeds of the sale shall be placed in
the general fund of the city. If the former owner makes application and
furnishes satisfactory proof of ownership within six months of the sale, he or
she shall be paid the proceeds of the sale of his or her property less the
costs of storage and the proportionate part of the cost of published notice and
other costs of the sale.
(Prior Code, § 808.02)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   General prohibition
   
91.02   Areas where keeping prohibited
   
91.03   Treatment
   
91.04   Animals at large
   
91.05   Diseased animals
   
91.06   Manner of keeping
   
91.07   Care of premises
   
91.08   Raising or keeping chickens in non-agricultural zones
Dogs
   
91.20   Running at large prohibited
   
91.21   License
   
91.22   Dog nuisances
   
91.23   Pet excrement
   
91.24   Confinement of certain dogs
   
91.25   Quarantine of certain dogs
   
91.26   Proceedings for destruction of certain dogs
   
91.27   Impounding
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   No person shall keep any livestock or poultry in the city except under the
conditions prescribed by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 504.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 AREAS WHERE KEEPING PROHIBITED.
   No livestock or poultry shall be kept in the city except within the
agricultural zone or as otherwise permitted under the land use provisions of
the code.
(Prior Code, § 504.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 TREATMENT.
   No person shall treat any animal in a cruel or inhumane manner.
(Prior Code, § 504.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   No person shall permit any livestock or poultry of which he or she is the
owner, caretaker or custodian to be at large within the city. Any such animal
is deemed to be at large when it is off the premises owned or rented by the
owner or his or her agent and not under his or her individual restraint.
(Prior Code, § 504.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   Any animal with a contagious disease shall be so confined that it cannot
come within 50 feet of any public roadway or any place where animals belonging
to or harbored by another person are kept.
(Prior Code, § 504.05)
§ 91.06 MANNER OF KEEPING.
   No person shall keep any dog, cat or other animal in the city in an
unsanitary place or condition or in a manner resulting in objectionable odors
or in such a way as to constitute a nuisance or disturbance by reason of
barking, howling, fighting or other noise or in such a way as to permit the
animal to annoy, injure or endanger any person or property.
(Prior Code, § 504.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 CARE OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Clean shelters. Every structure and yard in which animals or fowl are
kept shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and free of all
rodents, vermin and objectionable odors. Upon the complaint of any individual
or otherwise, the Health Officer shall inspect such structure or yard and issue
any such order as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Manure. Manure shall be removed with sufficient frequency to avoid
nuisance from odors or from the breeding of flies.
(Prior Code, § 504.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 RAISING OR KEEPING CHICKENS IN NON-AGRICULTURAL ZONES.
   (A)   On a parcel in an approved district, with the exception of
agricultural zones, the raising or keeping of fowl of not more than 12 chicken
hens on a parcel in an R-1 District shall be allowed; provided that the
following standards are met.
      (1)   Chickens shall be fully contained on the property at all times.
      (2)   Food materials shall be stored in metal containers with tight-
fitting lids.
      (3)   All housing, pens and containment areas shall be maintained in a
clean, sanitary and odor-free environment and shall be free from the presence
of rodents and vermin at all times.
      (4)   Chickens must be housed within an accessory structure in R-
1 Districts. No chickens shall be housed within any part of a residential
dwelling.
      (5)   No coops or runs shall be permitted in side or front yards.
      (6)   Coops and runs shall be screened with a solid fence with a minimum
height of four feet.
      (7)   Coops and runs shall be no less than 25 feet from the primary
dwelling and 25 feet from primary dwellings on adjacent properties.
      (8)   Only one coop shall be allowed on the property and must be at least
24 inches off the ground and must be constructed using rodent resistant
materials.
      (9)   A run may be no more than 20 square feet per chicken.
      (10)   Neither the keeping of roosters, nor the slaughtering of chickens
shall be permitted.
      (11)   The sale of chicken products such as, but not limited to, eggs,
part of or whole chickens shall be prohibited.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor chickens on any
premises unless issued a permit by City Administrator.
      (1)   There shall be an annual fee for the keeping or harboring of
chickens as set forth by ordinance of the City Council.
      (2)   The permit shall only be issued after a permit application has been
completed.
       (3)   The permit application shall contain a scaled diagram of the
property, proximity to adjoining properties, size of the coop, size of the run
and distance from all structures on the property.
      (4)   Each permit shall expire annually on December 31.
      (5)   City Council may revoke or suspend a permit for violations of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 504.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
DOGS
§ 91.20 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   No dog shall be permitted to run at large within the limits of the city.
This restriction does not prohibit the appearance of any dog upon streets or
public property when the dog is on a leash and is kept under the control of the
person charged with its care.
(Prior Code, § 503.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.21 LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall keep any dog over six months of age
within the city without securing an annual license therefor from the City
Administrator, who shall keep a record of all licenses issued and shall issue a
metal tag for each license.
   (B)   License fees; expiration. The annual fee shall be in an amount as set
forth from time to time by resolution of the City Council for each male dog or
spayed female dog; and an amount as set forth from time to time by resolution
of the City Council for each unspayed female dog. Every license shall expire on
the last day of May next following its issuance.
   (C)   Rabies vaccination. Every application for a license shall be
accompanied by a certificate from a qualified veterinarian showing that the dog
has been vaccinated for rabies within two years prior to the expiration of the
license applied for.
(Prior Code, § 503.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.22 DOG NUISANCES.
   No person shall keep, harbor or permit to remain about his or her premises
any dog which has the habit of barking or howling to the disturbance of the
neighborhood or which habitually causes damage or injury to the property of
another.
(Prior Code, § 503.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.23 PET EXCREMENT.
   The owner or the person temporarily responsible for the care and custody of
any dog, cat or other pet animal, shall be required to immediately clean up and
remove any animal excrement deposited on the property of another, whether
public or private. If the animal deposits excrement on public or private
property of another at a time when the owner or custodian of the animal is not
present, the owner or custodian shall immediately remove the excrement from the
public or private property upon being notified of the act. Initial violation of
the ordinance within any calendar year shall be a petty misdemeanor. All
subsequent or repeat violations within a calendar year by the same owner or
custodian shall be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 503.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.24 CONFINEMENT OF CERTAIN DOGS.
   Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or other secure
enclosure in such manner that it cannot come into contact with another dog,
except for planned breeding.
(Prior Code, § 503.05)
§ 91.25 QUARANTINE OF CERTAIN DOGS.
   Any dog which bites a person shall be quarantined for no less than ten days
or as may be directed by the City Health Officer. During quarantine, the animal
shall be securely confined and kept from contact with any other animal. At the
discretion of the City Health Officer, the quarantine may be on the premises of
the owner; however, if the Health Officer requires other confinement, the owner
shall surrender the animal for the quarantine period to an animal shelter or
shall, at his or her own expense, place it in a veterinary hospital.
(Prior Code, § 503.06)
§ 91.26 PROCEEDINGS FOR DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN DOGS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon sworn complaint to the District Court that any one of the
following exists:
         (a)   Any dog at any time has destroyed property or habitually
trespasses in a damaging manner on the property of persons other than the
owner;
         (b)   Any dog at any time has attacked or bitten a person outside the
owner’s or custodian’s premises;
         (c)   Any dog is vicious or shows vicious habits or molests
pedestrians or interferes with vehicles on the public streets; or
         (d)   Any dog is a public nuisance as heretofore defined.
      (2)   The judge shall issue a summons directed to the owner of the dog
commanding him or her to appear before the Court to show cause why the dog
should not be seized by any police officer, or otherwise disposed of in a
manner authorized by this chapter. Such summons shall be returnable not less
than two nor more than six days from the date thereof and shall be served at
least two days before the time of the scheduled appearance. Upon such hearing
and finding the facts true as complained of, the Court may either order the dog
killed or order the owner or custodian to remove it from the city, or may order
the owner or custodian to keep it confined to a designated place. If the owner
or custodian violates such order, any police officer may impound the dog
described in such order.
   (B)   The provisions of this section are in addition to and supplement other
provisions of this chapter. Costs of the proceeding specified by this section
shall be assessed against the owner or custodian of the dog if the facts in the
complaint are found to be true; or to the complainant, if the facts are found
to be untrue.
(Prior Code, § 503.07)
§ 91.27 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Police to impound. Any dog found unlicensed or running at large
contrary to the provisions of this subchapter may be impounded by the
poundmaster or any police officer, who shall give notice of the impounding to
the owner of such dog if known, by delivery or mail, or by posting the notice
at the place of impoundment or by delivery to an adult residing in the
property, and telephoning, if possible. If the owner is unknown, the officer
shall post notice at the pound and publish notice in a local newspaper that if
the dog is not claimed within ten days of the posting or publication of the
notice, it will be disposed of.
   (B)   Notice and right to hearing. The notice to the owner shall include the
following:
      (1)   A description of the animal seized; the authority and purpose for
the seizure; the time, place and circumstances under which the animal was
seized; and the location, address, telephone number and contact person where
the animal is kept;
      (2)   A statement that a person claiming an interest in the animal must
pull security to prevent disposition of the animal and may request a hearing
concerning the seizure or impoundment; and that the failure to do so within ten
days of the date of the notice will result in disposition of the animal;
      (3)   A statement that all actual costs of the care keeping and disposal
of the animal are the responsibility of the person claiming an interest in the
animal, except to the extent that a court or hearing officer finds that the
seizure or impoundment was not substantially justified by law; and
      (4)   The notice must also include a form that can be used by a person
claiming an interest in the animal for requesting a hearing under this division
(B).
   (C)   Hearing. Upon request of a person claiming an interest in the animal,
which request must be made within ten days of the date of seizure, a hearing
must be held within five business days of the request, to determine the
validity of the seizure and impoundment. If the seizure was done pursuant to a
warrant under M.S. § 343.22, as it may be amended from time to time, the
hearing must be conducted by the judge who issued the warrant. If the seizure
was done under M.S. § 343.29, as it may be amended from time to time, the city
may authorize either a licensed veterinarian with no financial interest in the
matter or professional association with either party or a state hearing officer
to conduct the hearing.
   (D)   Redemption. Any dog may be redeemed from the pound by the owner within
the time stated in the notice by the payment to the City Administrator of the
license fee for the current year, if unpaid, together with an impounding fee in
an amount set forth from time to time by Council resolution and all boarding
charges for the pound.
    (E)   Disposition of unclaimed dogs. Any dog which is not redeemed within
the time specified in division (B) above may be sold. Any dog which is not
claimed by the owner or sold may be painlessly killed.
   (F)   Poundmaster. The City Council shall designate a poundmaster.
(Prior Code, § 503.08)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
Smoke Detectors
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Requirements
   
92.03   Location
   
92.04   Placement
   
92.05   Alternatives
   
92.06   Equipment
   
92.07   Installation
   
92.08   Maintenance
   
92.09   Direct connection to electrical system
   
92.10   Inspection on request
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY. The Fire Chief or other authorized representative
of the Department having jurisdiction.
   ALARM SIGNAL. An audible signal indicating a fire condition.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any building or portion thereof which contains living
facilities, including provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   SMOKE DETECTOR. A device that detects visible or invisible products of
combustion and sounds an audible alarm.
(Prior Code, § 507.01)
§ 92.02 REQUIREMENTS.
   It is recommended that the owner of every existing occupied residential
dwelling unit install smoke detectors in each living unit. These smoke
detectors should be either the ionization or photoelectric type capable of
sensing visible or invisible particles to the sleeping areas.
(Prior Code, § 507.02)
§ 92.03 LOCATION.
   Smoke detectors should be installed outside of each separate sleeping area
and in the immediate proximity of the bedrooms and shall be on each additional
level of the dwelling unit including basements and excluding unfinished crawl
spaces and unfinished attics. For family units with split levels which are
defined as adjacent levels with less than one full story separation between
levels, a smoke detector should be placed outside of each separate sleeping
area and in the intermediate vicinity of the bedrooms, and on every other floor
level without an intervening door.
(Prior Code, § 507.03)
§ 92.04 PLACEMENT.
   Care shall be exercised to ensure that the installation will not interfere
with the operating characteristics of the detector. When actuated, the detector
should provide an alarm signal in the dwelling unit loud enough to be heard in
the sleeping areas and/or bedrooms. In dwelling units, smoke detectors should
be mounted on the ceiling or wall of a corridor or area giving access to rooms
used for sleeping purposes. Ceiling mounted smoke detectors shall be located as
close to the center of the ceiling as possible, but not within six inches of a
wall. As an alternative, smoke detectors may be mounted on a wall within 12
inches of the ceiling, but not closer than six inches from the intersection of
the wall and ceiling.
(Prior Code, § 507.04)
§ 92.05 ALTERNATIVES.
   Where smoke detectors are installed as part of an approved fire protection
system, the recommendation for single station smoke detectors may be set aside.
An approved system is defined as a combination of devices that meet the
requirements of this chapter and is installed in accordance with National Fire
Protection Association Standards 72.
(Prior Code, § 507.05)
§ 92.06 EQUIPMENT.
   Any device, combination of devices or equipment recommended by this section
are to be listed and installed in conformance with the recommendations of the
State Fire Marshal’s office and this section, and may be approved by the
administrative authority for the purpose for which they are intended. This list
may be subsequently amended by the administrative authority as necessary. Such
approval is permanent unless the administrative authority subsequently finds
that the equipment is hazardous, unreliable or otherwise detrimental to public
health or safety, in which case the administrative authority may suspend or
revoke approval and may in any such case determine whether replacement of
existing installation is recommended.
(Prior Code, § 507.06)
§ 92.07 INSTALLATION.
   In residential buildings, battery-operated smoke detectors are preferred.
Where a living unit is occupied by a deaf and/or hearing-impaired person, a
smoke detector should provide an approved signal.
(Prior Code, § 507.07)
§ 92.08 MAINTENANCE.
   In single-family dwellings, owner occupied, the occupants are responsible
for operation and maintenance of the detector(s).
(Prior Code, § 507.08)
§ 92.09 DIRECT CONNECTION TO ELECTRICAL SYSTEM.
   No smoke detector or alternative system is to be directly connected to the
electrical system of the structure unless such connection is made by a licensed
electrician.
(Prior Code, § 507.09)
§ 92.10 INSPECTION ON REQUEST.
   The Fire Chief, or his or her designee, shall inspect and either approve or
disapprove any present or proposed smoke detector installation at the request
of any residential building occupants without charge to such occupant.
(Prior Code, § 507.10)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Assessable current services
   
93.02   Tree diseases and shade tree pest control
Nuisances
   
93.15   Public nuisance
   
93.16   Public nuisances affecting health
   
93.17   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
93.18   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
93.19   Nuisance parking and storage
   
93.20   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
93.21   Building maintenance and appearance
   
93.22   Duties of city officers
   
93.23   Abatement
   
93.24   Recovery of cost
Grass, Weeds and Plants
   
93.35   Definitions
   
93.36   Native plant landscape areas
   
93.37   Weeds, grass and plants
   
93.38   Payment of costs
Open Burning
   
93.55   Rules and laws adopted by reference
   
93.56   Definitions
   
93.57   Prohibited materials
   
93.58   Permit required for open burning
   
93.59   Purposes allowed for open burning
   
93.60   Permit application for open burning; permit fees
   
93.61   Permit process for open burning
   
93.62   Permit holder responsibility
   
93.63   Revocation of open burning permit
   
93.64   Denial of open burning permit
   
93.65   Burning ban or air quality alert
   
93.66   External solid fuel-fired heating devices (outdoor wood burning stoves)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. One or more of the following: snow, ice or rubbish
removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from plots adjacent to sidewalks or
from private property; removal or elimination of public health or safety
hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous building included in
M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26, as they may amended from time to time;
installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling, street
flushing, light street oiling or other dust treatment of streets; repair of
sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of unsound and
insect-infected trees from the public streets or private property; and the
operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.
      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its deposit thereon.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   Removal by city. The City Administrator or other person designated
by the City Council may cause removal from all public sidewalks all snow, ice,
dirt and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24 hours after any matter has
been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. The City
Administrator or other designated person shall keep a record showing the cost
of removal adjacent to each separate lot and parcel.
   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
City Administrator.
   (D)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property, the City
Administrator shall keep a record of the total cost of the installation or
repair against the property.
   (E)   Damage to public property. Any person driving any vehicle, equipment,
object or contrivance upon any street, road, highway or structure shall be
liable for all damages which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a
result of any illegal operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle, equipment
or object or contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving or moving any
vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum
weight permitted by statute or this code. When the driver is not the owner of
the vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance, but is operating, driving or
moving it with the express or implied permission of the owner, then the owner
and the driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any such damage. Any
person who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by that act damages
any public property shall be liable for the amount thereof, which amount shall
be collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67, as it may be amended
from time to time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 TREE DISEASES AND SHADE TREE PEST CONTROL.
   (A)   Declaration of policy. The health of the trees in the city is
threatened by shade tree pests, and the loss or ill health of trees growing
upon public and private property substantially depreciates the value of
property within the city and impairs the safety, good order, general welfare
and convenience of the public. In addition to and in accordance with M.S. §§
89.001, 89.01 and 89.51 through 89.64, as they may be amended from time to
time, the provisions of this section are adopted to attempt to control and
prevent the spread of these shade tree pests.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The city shall have control of all street trees, shrubs
and other plantings now or hereafter in any street, park, public right-of-way
or easement or other public place within the city limits, and shall have the
power to plant, care for, maintain, remove and replace such trees, shrubs and
other plantings.
   (C)   Declaration of a shade tree pest. The Council may declare any
vertebrate or invertebrate animal,   plant pathogen or plant threatening to
cause significant damage to a shade tree or community forest as defined by M.S.
§ 89.001, as it may be amended from time to time, to be a shade tree pest and
prescribe control measures to effectively eradicate, control or manage the
shade tree pest including necessary timelines for action.
   (D)   Public nuisances declared. A shade tree pest declared by Council
occurring within a declared control zone is a public nuisance.
   (E)   Shade tree pest nuisances are unlawful. It is unlawful for any person
to permit any public nuisance as defined in this section to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. The nuisance may be
abated as provided in this section.
   (F)   Definition of control areas. Upon declaring a shade tree pest, the
Council may define one or more locations within the geographic boundaries of
the city to be within a shade tree pest control area provided the locations are
characterized by biologic, composition, environmental and size factors
favorable to successful application of the control measures prescribed by
Council.
   (G)   Tree Inspector. The Council may appoint a Tree Inspector to coordinate
the activities of the city relating to the control and prevention of damage by
shade tree pests. The Tree Inspector will recommend to the Council the details
of any program for the declaration, control and prevention of shade tree pests.
The Tree Inspector is authorized to enforce or cause to be enforced the tasks
incident to such a program adopted by the Council. The term TREE INSPECTOR
includes any person designated by Council or the Tree Inspector to carry out
activities authorized in this section.
   (H)   Abatement of shade tree pest nuisances.
      (1)   In abating a nuisance declared by ordinance under divisions (B) and
(C) above, the organism, condition or plant and any tree, wood or material
identified as injurious to the health of shade trees shall be removed or
effectively treated so as to destroy and prevent as fully as possible the
spread of the shade tree pest. The abatement procedures shall be carried out in
accordance with the control measures and areas prescribed by ordinance
according to divisions (C) and (K) and (O).
      (2)   In addition, should the appropriate abatement procedure be removal
and the tree(s) and/or hedge(s) be within the limits of a highway in a rural
area within the city’s jurisdiction, M.S. § 160.22, as it may be amended from
time to time, shall be complied with as necessary.
   (I)   Reporting discovery of shade tree pest. Any owner or occupier of land
or any person engaged in tree trimming or removal who becomes aware of the
existence of public nuisance caused by a shade tree pest as defined in division
(C) above shall report the same to the city.
   (J)   Registration of tree care firms. Any person, firm or corporation that
provides tree care, tree trimming or removal of trees, limbs, branches, brush
or shrubs for hire must be registered with the state’s Commissioner of
Agriculture under M.S. § 18G.07, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (K)   Inspection and application of control measures.
      (1)   The Tree Inspector is authorized to inspect premises and places
within the city to determine whether shade tree pests exist thereon and to
investigate all reported incidents of shade tree pests. The Tree Inspector is
authorized to take all reasonable measures to prevent the maintenance of public
nuisances and may enforce the provisions relating to abatement in this section.
Diagnosis of shade tree pests may be by the presence of commonly recognized
symptoms or by tests as may be recommended by the Commissioner of the Minnesota
Department of Agriculture or the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources or other reliable means.
      (2)   Except in situations of imminent danger to human life and safety,
the Tree Inspector shall not enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing maintenance of public nuisances without the permission
of the owner, resident or other person in control of the property, unless the
Tree Inspector has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry.
      (3)   No person, firm or corporation shall interfere with the Tree
Inspector acting under his or her authority while engaged in activities
authorized by this section.
   (L)   Standard abatement procedure. Except as provided in divisions (M) and
(O) below, whenever a Tree Inspector determines with reasonable certainty that
a public nuisance as described by this section is being maintained or exists on
premises in the city, the Tree Inspector is authorized to abate a public
nuisance according to the following procedure.
      (1)   The Tree Inspector will notify in writing the owner of record or
occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be terminated
or abated. The notice may be given in person or by mail. Failure of any party
to receive the mail does not invalidate the service of the notice. A copy of
the notice shall be filed with the City Administrator.
      (2)   The notice of abatement shall state that unless the public nuisance
is abated by the owner or occupant, it will be abated by the city at the
expense of the owner or occupant. The notice shall specify the control measures
to be taken to abate the nuisance, and provide a reasonable amount of time to
abate the nuisance. The notice will also state that the owner or occupant has
the right to appeal the determination that a public nuisance exists by
submitting a request in writing to the City Administrator within seven days
after service of the notice, or before the date by which abatement must be
completed, whichever comes first.
      (3)   If no timely appeal is submitted, and the notice of abatement and
its prescribed control measures are not complied with within the time provided
by the notice or any additional time granted, the Tree Inspector or designated
person shall have the authority to obtain permission or an administrative
search warrant, enter the property and carry out abatement in accordance with
the notice of abatement.
   (M)   High cost abatement. If the Tree Inspector determines that the cost of
abating a nuisance will exceed $5,000 based on a reasonable, good faith
estimate, the written notice referred to in division (L) above must provide
that if the nuisance is not abated within the reasonable amount of time
provided, the matter will be referred to the City Council for a hearing. The
date, time and location of the hearing must be provided in the notice.
   (N)   Appeal procedure. If the City Administrator receives a written request
for a hearing on the question of whether a public nuisance in fact exists, the
City Council shall hold a hearing within seven calendar days following receipt
by the Administrator of the written request. At least three days’ notice shall
be given to the individual who made the written request for the hearing. The
Council may modify the abatement notice or extend the time by which abatement
must be completed. Each owner, agent of the owner, occupant and lienholder of
the subject property or properties in attendance, if any, shall be given the
opportunity to present evidence at the hearing. After holding the hearing, the
City Council may issue an order requiring abatement of the nuisance.
   (O)   Abatement procedure in event of imminent danger.
      (1) If the Tree Inspector determines that the danger of infestation to
other shade trees is imminent and delay in control measures may put public
health, safety or welfare in immediate danger, the Tree Inspector may provide
for abatement without following divisions (L) or (M) above. The Tree Inspector
must reasonably attempt to notify the owner or occupant of the affected
property of the intended action and the right to appeal the abatement and any
cost recovery at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
      (2)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the
city, without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition
which poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
   (P)   Recovery of cost of abatement; liability and assessment.
      (1)   The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been abated by the
city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the abatement,
including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been completed and the
cost determined, the City Administrator or other official shall prepare a bill
for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon, the amount shall be
immediately due and payable at the office of the City Administrator.
      (2)   After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as it may
be amended from time to time, the City Administrator may list the total unpaid
charges along with all other charges as well as other charges for current
services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time, against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are
attributable. The City Council may then certify the charges against the
property under that statute and other pertinent statutes to the County Auditor
for collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments as the City Council may determine in each case.
   (Q)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which
may be imposed for any crime which is a misdemeanor under this section,
including the state statutes specifically adopted by reference, shall be a
sentence of not more than 90 days or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
      (2)   Upon conviction of a misdemeanor, the costs of prosecution may be
added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which
a violation occurs or continues.
      (3)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this section shall not subject the officer or employee
to the penalty imposed for a violation.
      (4)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section, if any
person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this section,
the City Council or any official designated by it, may institute appropriate
proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   (R)   Declared shade tree pests, control measures and control areas.
      (1)   Oak Wilt. Oak Wilt is declared a shade tree pest and is defined as
any living or dead tree, log, firewood, limb, branch, stump or other portion of
a tree from any species of the genus Quercus existing within the control area
defined that has bark attached and that exceeds three inches in diameter or ten
inches in circumference and contains to any degree any spore or reproductive
structures of the fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum. Control measures prescribed
for abating Oak Wilt Disease are as follows.
         (a)   Installation of a root graft barrier. A root graft barrier can
be ordered installed to prevent the underground spread of Oak Wilt Disease. The
city will mark the location of the root graft barrier. The barrier disrupts
transmission of the fungus within the shared vascular systems of root grafted
trees. The barrier is created by excavating or vibratory plowing a line at
least 42 inches deep between any oak tree infected with Oak Wilt Disease and
each nearby and apparently healthy oak tree within 50 feet of the infected
tree.
         (b)   Removal and disposal of trees on property zoned for residential
and commercial use. On property that is zoned residential and commercial, the
city may mark for removal trees that have the potential to produce spores of
the fungus Ceratocvstis fagacearum. After, and in no case before the
installation of the root graft barrier and no later than May 1 of the year
following infection, all marked trees must be felled. The stump from the felled
trees must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if taller,
must be completely debarked. If, however, after the city prescribes the
location for a root graft barrier, the city determines that installation of the
barrier is impossible because of the presence of pavement or obstructions such
as a septic system or utility line, the city may mark for removal all oak trees
whether living or dead, infected or not and located between an infected tree
and the marked barrier location. These marked trees must be felled and disposed
of no later than May 1 of the year following infection. The stump from the
felled trees must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if
taller, must be completely debarked.
         (c)   Removal and disposal of trees on all other property. On all
other property, the city may mark for removal all oak trees whether living or
dead, infected or not and located between an infected tree and the marked
barrier location. These marked trees must be felled and disposed of no later
than May 1 of the year following infection. The stump from such felled trees
must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if taller, must be
completely debarked.
         (d)   Wood disposal. All wood more than three inches in diameter or
ten inches in circumference from the felled trees must be disposed of by
burying or debarking or chipping or sawing into wane-free lumber or by
splitting into firewood, stacking the firewood and immediately covering the
woodpile with unbroken four-mil or thicker plastic sheeting that is sealed into
the ground until October 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year in
which the tree was felled or by burning before May 1 of the year following
infection. Wood chips from infected trees may be stockpiled or immediately used
in the landscape.
         (e)   Control area. The control area for Oak Wilt Disease is defined
as all lands within the boundaries of the city.
      (2)   Emerald Ash Borer. Emerald Ash Borer is declared a shade tree pest
and is defined as an insect that attacks and kills ash trees. The adults are
small, iridescent green beetles that live outside of trees during the summer
months. The larvae are grub or worm-like and live underneath the bark of ash
trees.
         (a)   Control measures. Control measures prescribed for abating
Emerald Ash Borer are those provided in the document, Guidelines to Slow the
Growth and Spread of Emerald Ash Borer from the state’s Department of
Agriculture.
         (b)   Definition of control areas. The control area for Emerald Ash
Borer is defined as all lands within the boundaries of the city.
      (3)   Dutch Elm Disease. Dutch Elm Disease is declared a shade tree pest
and is defined as a disease of elm trees caused by the fungus Ophiostoma ulmi
or Ophiostoma novo-ulmi, and includes any living or dead tree, log, firewood,
limb, branch, stump or other portion of a tree from any species of the genus
Ulmus existing within the control area defined that has bark attached and that
exceeds three inches in diameter or ten inches in circumference and could
contain bark beetles or any spore or reproductive structures of the fungus
Ophiostoma ulmi or Ophiostoma novo-ulmi.
         (a)   Control measures. Control measures prescribed for abating Dutch
Elm Disease are as follows.
            1.   Use of fungicide. Fungicides may be effective in preventing
Dutch elm disease when injected into living trees that do not already show
symptoms of Dutch elm disease. Fungicide injections on private lands are
optional and, if performed, are at the landowner’s expense.
            2.   Removal and disposal of trees. Prompt removal of diseased
trees or branches reduces breeding sites for elm bark beetles and eliminates
the source of Dutch elm disease fungus. Trees that wilt before July 15 must be
removed within 20 days of detection [alternative: 30 days]. Trees that wilt
after July 15 must be removed by April 1 of the following year. Diseased trees
not promptly removed will be removed by the city at the landowner’s expense.
Wood may be retained for use as firewood or sawlogs if it is de-barked or
covered from April 15 to October 15 with four mil plastic. The edges of the
cover must be buried or sealed to the ground.
         (b)   Definition of control areas. The control area for Dutch Elm
Disease is defined as all lands within the boundaries of the city.
NUISANCES
§ 93.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   A person must not act, or fail to act in a manner that is or causes a public
nuisance. For purpose of this chapter, a person who does any of the following
is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of- way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or §§
93.16,
93.17 or
93.18, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance and for which no
sentence is specifically provided.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.17 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized and permitted by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquor is manufactured or
disposed of in violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are
permitted to resort for the purpose of drinking intoxicating or 3.2% malt
liquor, or where intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquor is kept for sale or other
disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and other property used for
maintaining that place; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.18 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   Any person participating in any party or other gathering that causes
the unreasonable disturbing of the peace, quiet or repose of another person in
such a manner as to be plainly audible at the boundary of the real property,
building, structure or residence from which the noise originates, or at a
distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise. PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as
sound that can be detected by a person using their unaided hearing faculties;
   (E)   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations;
   (F)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (G)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (H)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (I)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (J)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (K)      Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and
within three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (L)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (M)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (N)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (O)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (P)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (Q)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (R)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (S)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and one footcandle when
abutting any commercial or industrial parcel;
   (T)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone; and
   (U)   (1)   Noises prohibited. The following noise is prohibited:
         (a)   Any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace,
safety or welfare of any person, or precludes their enjoyment of property, or
affects their property’s value in such a manner as to be plainly audible at the
boundary of the real property, building, structure or residence from which the
noise originates, or at a distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise.
(This general prohibition is not limited by any specific restrictions provided
in this chapter.) PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as sound that can be detected by a
person using their unaided hearing faculties;
         (b)   All obnoxious noises, motor vehicle or otherwise, in violation
of Minn. Rules Chapter 7030, as they may be amended from time to time, are
hereby incorporated into this section by reference;
         (c)   The use of any vehicle so out of repair or so loaded as to
create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise;
         (d)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharge of
the exhaust of any statutory internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle (ATV), snowmobile or any recreational
device, except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud
or explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
         (e)   Any loud or excessive noise in the loading, unloading or
unpacking of any vehicle; and
         (f)   The use or operation, or permitting the use or operation, of any
radio receiving set, television set, musical instrument, music device, paging
system, machine or other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a
distinctly and loudly audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and
comfort of any person nearby;
      (2)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
         (a)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or
other similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
         (b)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or
refuse in any residential district except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on
any weekend or holiday.
         (c)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
         (d)   Radios, music devices, paging systems and the like. The
operation of any device referred to in division (U)(1)(f) above between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at
the property line of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a
distance of 50 feet if the source is located outside a structure or building
shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
      (3)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person
applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any
structure, operation, process, installation or alteration or project that may
be considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the Council. It shall evaluate each such statement and take
its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or permit
applied for or the zoning change requested.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.19 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it obstructs views on streets and private property; creates
cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas; prevents the full use of residential
streets for residential parking; introduces commercial advertising signs into
areas where commercial advertising signs are otherwise prohibited; decreases
adjoining landowners’ and occupants’ enjoyment of their property and
neighborhood; and otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood
patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store or allow the placement or storage of
ice fishing houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses or other similar non-permanent
structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front yard area
of residential property unless more than 100 feet back from the front property
line.
      (2)   A person must not place, store or allow the placement or storage of
pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery or similar materials, including all
materials used in connection with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or fence.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements.
         (a)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be
parked or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of nonresidential characteristics of
the property. This maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional
guests who do not reside on the property.
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front yard
area must be on a paved or graveled parking surface or driveway area.
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.20 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any motor vehicles described in this section shall constitute a hazard
to the health and welfare of the residents of the community as such vehicles
can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter and breeding place for vermin,
and present physical danger to the safety and well-being of children and
citizens. Motor vehicles also contain various fluids which, if released into
the environment, can and do cause significant health risks to the community.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store or abandon any motor vehicle
which is not in operating condition, partially dismantled, used for repair of
parts or as a source of repair or replacement parts for other vehicles, kept
for scrapping, dismantling or salvage of any kind, or which is not properly
licensed for operation with the state, pursuant to M.S. §§ 168B.011, Subd. 3,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in a building
and/or kept out of view from any street, road or alley, and which does not
foster complaint from a resident of the city. A privacy fence is permissible.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.21 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences and other structures that
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they are unsightly; decrease adjoining landowners and occupants’
enjoyment of their property and neighborhood; and adversely affect property
values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Standards. A building, fence or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.
      (2)   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked, chipped or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:
         (a)   Any one wall or other flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters and similar
projections on any one side or surface.
      (3)   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, may be
broken or cracked, and no screens may be torn or separated from moldings.
      (4)   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
      (5)   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay or dormer windows and
similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from cracks and
defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.
      (6)   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that admit water.
All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly.
      (7)   Chimneys, antennae, air vents and other similar projections must be
structurally sound and in good repair. These projections must be secured
properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
      (8)   Foundations must be structurally sound and in good repair.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.22 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   For purposes of §§
93.22 and
93.23, the Police Department may enforce the provisions relating to nuisances.
Any peace officer or designated person shall have the power to inspect private
premises and take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and
maintenance of public nuisances. Except in emergency situations of imminent
danger to human life and safety, no police officer or designated person shall
enter private property for the purpose of inspecting or preventing public
nuisances without the permission of the owner, resident or other person in
control of the property, unless the officer or person designated has obtained a
warrant or order from a court of competent jurisdiction authorizing the entry,
as provided in §
10.20.
§ 93.23 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Procedure. Whenever a peace officer or designated person determines
that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises in the
city, the officer or person designated may notify in writing the owner of
record or occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be
terminated or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be
taken to abate the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be
abated. If the notice of violation is not complied with within the time
specified, the officer or designated person shall report that fact forthwith to
the City Council. Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to the owner
or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition
identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order that if
the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City Council, the
city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the City Council order and
notice of motion for summary enforcement or obtain an administrative search and
seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
   (B)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
a peace officer or designated person on the owner of record or occupant of the
premises either in person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises
is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown or the owner of record or
occupant refuses to accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be
served by posting it on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in M.S. § 463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard
Building Act), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S. § 463.17
(Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) above will permit a continuing nuisance to
unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare, the City Council may
order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with summary
enforcement, the officer or designated person shall determine that a public
nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in the city and that delay
in abatement of the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health, safety
or welfare. The officer or designated person shall notify in writing the
occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance, whether public
health, safety or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in abatement
required to complete the procedure set forth in division (A) above and may
order that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If the nuisance is
not immediately terminated or abated, the City Council may order summary
enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
   (E)   Unlawful parties or gatherings. When law enforcement determines that a
gathering is creating such a noise disturbance as prohibited under §
93.18(D), the officer may order all persons present, other than the owner or
tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disburse
immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by
law enforcement. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has knowledge of
the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance
is stopped.
   (F)   Judicial remedy. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from
seeking a judicial remedy when no other adequate administrative remedy exists.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.24 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city or a person who has caused a public nuisance on a property
not owned by that person shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of
the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Administrator or other official
shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon, the
amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City
Administrator.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Administrator
shall, on or before September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list
the total unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as other charges
for current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are
attributable. The City Council may then spread the charges against the property
under that statute and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County
Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding ten, as the City Council may determine in each
case.
Penalty, see §
10.99
GRASS, WEEDS AND PLANTS
§ 93.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NATIVE PLANT LANDSCAPE AREAS. Areas where native plants are being planted or
have been planted in a well-defined and maintained border.
   NATIVE PLANTS. Grasses, including meadow vegetation, sedges (solid,
triangular-stemmed plants resembling grasses), forbs (flowering broadleaf
plants), trees and shrubs, that are plant species native to or naturalized to
the state, excluding prohibited exotic species defined by M.S. Ch. 84D, as it
may be amended from time to time. NATIVE PLANTS do not include weeds or
turfgrass.
   TURFGRASS. Commercially available cultured grass varieties that are grown to
create turf, including bluegrass, fescue and ryegrass blends, commonly used in
regularly cut lawn areas.
   WEEDS. Noxious plants as enumerated by the Minnesota Noxious Weed Law, M.S.
§§ 18.75 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time, in addition to the
useless and troublesome plants as are commonly known as WEEDS to the general
public. WEEDS shall also be constructed to mean all rank vegetable growth which
exhales unpleasant or noxious odors, and all high rank vegetable growth that
may conceal filthy deposits.
§ 93.36 NATIVE PLANT LANDSCAPE AREAS.
   A native plant landscape area is permitted if the property owner or agent
demonstrates that all of the following conditions are met:
   (A)   The area is properly managed and maintained according to current
industry standards for the kind of vegetation being grown, to include seasonal
cutting as appropriate;
   (B)   Any existing turfgrass in the area is immediately eliminated prior to
the introduction of the native plants. The native plant landscape area is to be
planted through transplanting or seed by human or mechanical means;
   (C)   Soil erosion is controlled while the ground is bare of plant growth
that is sufficient to inhibit erosion;
   (D)   The native plant landscape area is set back at least five feet from
the front property line;
   (E)   The native plant landscape area is set back at least five feet from
the side and rear lot lines. No setback is required on the side and rear lot
lines if one of the following conditions is met:
      (1)   There is a fully opaque fence at least five feet in height between
the native plants and the side or rear lot lines. All fences must comply with
Chapter 152; and
      (2)   The native plants abut a neighboring native plant landscape area
that complies with the provisions of this section.
   (F)   The native plant landscape area shall not obscure, block or impede the
traffic visibility triangle area; regulatory, warning or street identification
signs; or street light illumination required to ensure the safe and efficient
circulation or vehicles and pedestrians on streets, intersections, trails,
pathways and sidewalks;
   (G)   The property owner or agent shall not be permitted to install native
plant landscape areas within any city-owned boulevard or the right-of-way of a
city street. Any plantings installed in violation of this provision may be
required to be removed at the expense of the owner;
   (H)   The city may require the property owner or agent who has planted, or
has allowed to be planted, native plants or other vegetation within a drainage
and utility easement to remove the native plants or other vegetation from the
drainage and utility easement at the expense of the owner; and
   (I)   The city will not be responsible for damage to turfgrass and/or any
landscaped area resulting from public works improvements or snow removal
activities within the right-of-way or drainage and utility easements.
§ 93.37 WEEDS, GRASS AND PLANTS.
   (A)   Nuisance defined; removal. Grass, plants and weeds, whether noxious,
as defined by law, or not, other than trees, bushes, flowers, native plant
landscape areas that comply with this subchapter or other ornamental plants
growing to a greater height than eight inches or that have gone or are about to
go to seed upon a lot or parcel of land outside the traveled portion of a
street or alley in the city are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and
dangerous to the health, safety and good order of the city. The owner or the
occupant must abate or prevent such nuisance on the property and on land
outside the traveled portion of the street or alley abutting the property.
Because of the negative effects that grass, weeds and plant clippings have on
water quality (the release of nitrogen in the waterways) and the tendency to
clog storm sewer grates, no person shall cause or allow grass, weeds or plant
clippings on the city’s streets, avenues or other public paved surfaces.
   (B)   Notice. When the owner or occupant permits a nuisance to exist in
violation of division (A) above, the City Inspector will serve notice upon the
owner of the property by certified mail or by personal service, ordering the
owner or occupant to have the grass, plants or weeds cut and remove within
seven days after receipt of the notice, and also stating that, in case of non-
compliance, the work will be done by the city at the expense of the owner, and
that if unpaid, the charge for such work will be made a special assessment
against the property concerned. When no owner, occupant or agent of the owner
or occupant can be found, the notice shall be posted on the property.
   (C)   City removal. If the owner or occupant fails to comply with the notice
within seven days after its receipt or posting, the city will cut and remove
the grass, plants or weeds. A record showing the cost of such work attributable
to each separate lot and parcel will be made and delivered to the City Clerk.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.38 PAYMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of the property for which the grass,
plants or weeds have been removed by the city in accordance with this section
is personally liable for the cost of such work. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost is determined, the City Clerk will prepare a bill of
service charges and mail it to the owner, and thereupon the amount is
immediately due and payable at the Office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Assessment. If the bill for service charges is not paid when due, the
city may assess the costs as a public nuisance in accordance with §
93.15.
OPEN BURNING
§ 93.55 RULES AND LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 88, as it may be amended from time to time, with
reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation, permits and all
other matters pertaining to open burning are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this subchapter as if set out in full. It is the intention
of the City Council that all future amendments of M.S. Ch. 88, as it may be
amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference as if they had been
in existence at the time this subchapter was adopted.
§ 93.56 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE CHIEF, FIRE MARSHAL and ASSISTANT FIRE MARSHALS. The officials of the
Fire Department which provides fire protection services to the city.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or
chimney, except a RECREATIONAL FIRE as defined herein. Mobile cooking devices
such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers and propane or
natural gas devices are not defined as OPEN BURNING.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than three
feet in height, contained within the border of a recreational fire site using
dry, clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the
property line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; for
recreational, ceremonial, food preparation for social purposes; extinguished
completely before quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions,
neighbors, burning bans and air quality so that nuisance, health or safety
hazards will not be created. No more than one RECREATIONAL FIRE is allowed on
any property at one time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a three-foot diameter circle
(measured from the inside of the fire ring or border); completely surrounded by
non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing material, either of natural
rock, cement, brick, tile or blocks or ferrous metal only and which area is
depressed below ground, on the ground or on a raised bed. Included are
permanent outdoor wood burning fireplaces. Burning barrels are not a RECREATION
FIRE SITE as defined herein. RECREATIONAL FIRE SITES shall not be located
closer than 25 feet to any structure or combustible material.
   RUNNING FIRE. An attended fire allowed to spread through surface vegetative
matter under controlled conditions for the purpose of vegetative management,
forest management, game habitat management or agricultural improvement.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard or
charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as STARTER
FUELS and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas
burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an open burn.
   VEGETATIVE MATERIALS. Dry leaves, dry grass clippings, twigs, branches, tree
limbs, untreated or unpainted wood that contains no glues or resins and other
similar materials. Paper and cardboard are not considered VEGETATIVE MATERIALS.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, manufactured
fireplace logs, charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. WOOD does
not include wood that is green with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked,
or treated with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for
recreational fires when cut into three-foot lengths.
§ 93.57 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of oils,
petroleum fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials or other
materials which produce excessive or noxious smoke such as, but not limited to,
tires, railroad ties, treated, painted or glued wood composite shingles, tar
paper, insulation, composition board, sheet rock, wiring, paint or paint
fillers.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of hazardous
waste or materials from salvage operations; solid waste generated from an
industrial or manufacturing process; materials from a service or commercial
establishment; or building material generated from demolition of commercial or
institutional structures.
   (C)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of discarded
material resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation, serving
or consumption of food.
   (D)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of any leaves or
grass clippings.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.58 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall start or allow any open burning on any property in the city
without first having obtained an open burn permit, except that a permit is not
required for any fire which is a recreational fire as defined in §
93.56.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.59 PURPOSES ALLOWED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burn permits may be issued only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Elimination of fire or health hazard that cannot be abated by other
practical means;
      (2)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction;
      (3)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights-of-
way where chipping, composting, landspreading or other alternative methods are
not practical;
      (4)   Disposal of diseased trees generated on-site, diseased or infected
nursery stock or diseased bee hives;
      (5)   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, non-glued lumber and wood shakes
generated from construction, where recycling, reuse, removal or other
alternative disposal methods are not practical; or
      (6)   Running fires.
   (B)   Fire training permits can only issued by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
   (C)   Permits for the operation of permanent tree and brush burning sites
may only be issued by the State Department of Natural Resources (DNR).
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.60 PERMIT APPLICATION FOR OPEN BURNING; PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Open burning permits shall be obtained by making application on a form
prescribed by the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and adopted by the Fire
Department. The permit application shall be presented to the Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal and Assistant Fire Marshals for reviewing and processing those
applications.
   (B)   An open burning permit shall require the payment of a fee. Permit fees
shall be in the amount established from time to time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.61 PERMIT PROCESS FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   If the established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit
are not met, the application will be denied.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the completed open burning permit application and
permit fee, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire Marshals, if he or
she reasonably believes necessary, may require a preliminary site inspection to
locate the proposed burn site, note special conditions, and set dates and time
of permitted burn and review fire safety considerations.
§ 93.62 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be responsible
for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in effect. Every
open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit holder or his or her
competent representative. The open burning site shall have available,
appropriate communication and fire suppression equipment as set out in the fire
safety plan.
   (B)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the permit
holder or his or her representative leaves the site. No fire may be allowed to
smolder with no person present. It is the responsibility of the permit holder
to have a valid permit, as required by this subchapter, available for
inspection on the site by the Police Department, Fire Department, MPCA
representative or DNR forest officer.
   (C)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance and implementation of
all general conditions, special conditions and the burn event safety plan as
established in the permit issued. The permit holder shall be responsible for
all costs incurred as a result of the burn, including, but not limited to, fire
suppression and administrative fees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.63 REVOCATION OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   An open burning permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of DNR
forest officer, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire Marshals.
Reasons for revocation include, but are not limited to, a fire hazard existing
or developing during the course of the burn, any of the conditions of the
permit being violated during the course of the burn, pollution or nuisance
conditions developing during the course of the burn, or a fire smoldering with
no flame present.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.64 DENIAL OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   If established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit are not
met during review of the application, it is determined that a practical
alternative method for disposal of the material exists, or a pollution or
nuisance condition would result, or if a burn event safety plan cannot be
drafted to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire
Marshals, these officers may deny the application for the open burn permit.
§ 93.65 BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.
   (A)   The designated fire official is authorized to determine when
conditions make open burning potentially hazardous and declare a burning ban
within the city.
   (B)   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or
DNR has officially declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire
conditions or when the MPCA has declared an air quality alert.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.66 EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICES (OUTDOOR WOOD BURNING
STOVES).
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICE. A device designed for external
solid fuel combustion so that usable heat is derived for the interior of a
building, and includes solid fuel-fired stoves, solid fuel-fired cooking
stoves, and combination fuel furnaces or boiler which burn solid fuel. Solid
fuel-fired heating devices do not include natural gas-fired fireplace logs or
wood-burning fireplaces or wood stoves in the interior of a dwelling.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, company or other
association.
      STACKS OR CHIMNEYS. Any vertical structure incorporated into a building
and enclosing a flue or flues that carry off smoke or exhaust from a solid
fuel-fired heating device, especially, the part of such a structure extending
above a roof.
   (B)   Requirements for operation.
      (1)   Any dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot or cinders, in
unreasonable quantities, or any use of an external solid fuel-fired heating
device to burn solid fuels other than those solid fuels for which the external
solid fuel-fired heating device was designed, is declared a public nuisance.
      (2)   No person may install, use or operate an external solid fuel fired
heating device on a lot less than four acres in size.
      (3)   All stacks or chimneys must be so constructed to withstand high
winds or other related elements and in accordance to the specifications of the
manufacturer of the external solid fuel- fired heating device. The stack height
shall be a minimum of 25 feet above ground level, but shall also extend at
least as high as the height of the roofs of residents within 500 feet. All
stacks or chimneys must be of masonry or insulated metal with a minimum six-
inch flue.
      (4)   All external solid fuel-fired heating devices must be setback a
minimum of 50 feet from all property lines.
      (5)   All external solid fuel-fired heating devices must be setback a
minimum of ten feet from any principal or accessory structure.
   (C)   Fuels.
      (1)   Only fuels designed for burning in an external solid fuel-fired
heating device may be burned. No garbage may be burned in an external solid
fuel-fired heating device.
      (2)   The only fuel permitted to be burned is untreated fuel. Wood may
not be treated, processed, stained, finished or painted, specifically
prohibited woods include plywood, particle board and similar products. Other
fuels, such as corn, shall not contain any additives, treatments or chemicals.
No petroleum products or processed materials of any kind may be burned.
CHAPTER 94: RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
Section
Generally
   
94.01   Findings and purpose
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Administration
   
94.04   Registration and right-of-way occupancy
   
94.05   Registration information
   
94.06   Reporting obligations
   
94.07   Permit requirement
   
94.08   Permit applications
   
94.09   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
94.10   Permit fees
   
94.11   Right-of-way repair and restoration
   
94.12   Joint applications
   
94.13   Supplementary applications
   
94.14   Other obligations
   
94.15   Denial of permit
   
94.16   Installation requirements
   
94.17   Inspection
   
94.18   Work done without a permit
   
94.19   Supplementary notification
   
94.20   Revocation of permits
   
94.21   Mapping data
   
94.22   Location of equipment
   
94.23   Relocation of equipment
   
94.24   Pre-excavation equipment location
   
94.25   Damage to other equipment
   
94.26   Right-of-way vacation
   
94.27   Indemnification and liability
   
94.28   Future uses
   
94.29   Abandoned and unusable equipment
   
94.30   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
   
94.31   Severability
   
94.32   Temporary obstruction permit
Small Wireless Facility Design Guidelines
   
94.45   Purpose and compliance
   
94.46   Definitions
   
94.47   Application requirements
   
94.48   Aesthetic requirements for small wireless facilities
   
94.49   Location requirements
   
94.50   Limitations
GENERALLY
§ 94.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   To provide for the health, safety and well-being of its citizens, and
to ensure the structural integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of
the right-of-way, the city strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good
repair and free from unnecessary encumbrances. Although the general population
bears the financial burden for the upkeep of the rights-of-way, a primary cause
for the early and excessive deterioration of its rights-of-way is frequent
excavation.
   (B)   The city holds the rights-of-way within its geographical boundaries as
an asset in trust for its citizens. The city and other public entities have
invested millions of dollars in public funds to build and maintain the rights-
of-way. It also recognizes that some persons, by placing their equipment in the
right-of-way and charging the citizens of the city for goods and services
delivered thereby, are using this property held for the public good. Although
such services are often necessary or convenient for the citizens, such person
receives revenue and/or profit through their use of public property.
   (C)   In response to the foregoing facts, the city hereby enacts this
chapter relating to right-of-way permits and administration, together with an
ordinance making necessary revisions to other code provisions. This chapter
imposes reasonable regulations on the placement and maintenance of equipment
currently within its rights-of-way or to be placed therein at some future time.
It is intended to complement the regulatory roles of state and federal
agencies. Under this chapter, persons disturbing and obstructing the rights-of-
way will bear a fair share of the financial responsibility for their integrity.
Finally, this chapter provides for recovery of out-of-pocket and projected
costs from person using the public rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 301.01)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate a right-of-way.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The portion of the city lying within and bounded by the
following streets: Main Street from Rice Street on the east to Fremont Street
on the west, also Debra Drive in its entirety.
   CITY COST. The actual cost incurred by the city for public rights-of-way
management, including, but not limited to, costs associated with registering
applicants, issuing, processing and verifying right-of-way permit applications;
inspecting job sites and restoration projects; maintaining, supporting,
protecting or moving user equipment during public right-of-way work;
determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed; and revoking right-of-way permits and performing all
other tasks required by this chapter, including other costs the city may incur
in managing the provisions of this chapter.
   DEGRADATION. The accelerated depreciation of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
did not occur.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works of the city.
   DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR. Any person authorized by the city to carry out
inspections related to the provisions of this chapter.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that:
      (1)   Poses a clear and immediate danger to life or health, or of a
significant loss of property; or
      (2)   Requires immediate repair or replacement in order to restore
service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible thing in any right-of-way, but shall not include
boulevard plantings or gardens planted or maintained in the right-of-way
between a person’s property and the street curb.
    EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way, except horticultural practices of
penetration the boulevard area to a depth of less than 12 inches.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An EXCAVATION PERMIT
allows the holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such
permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in §
94.10.
   IN. Over, above, in, within on or under a right-of-way.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of such person
or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions
for that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way has been granted by the city under this chapter.
   PERSON. Any natural or corporate person, business association or other
business entity including, but not limited to, a partnership, a sole
proprietorship, a political subdivision, a public or private agency of any
kind, a utility, a successor or assign of any of the foregoing or any other
legal entity which has or seeks to have equipment in any right-of-way.
   REGISTRANT. Any person who:
      (1)   Has or seeks to have its equipment located in any right-of-way; or
      (2)   In any way occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the right-
of-way or any equipment in the right-of-way.
   REPAIR. The temporary construction work necessary to make the right-of-way
useable for travel.
    RESTORATION BOND. A performance bond, a letter of credit or cash deposit
posted to ensure the availability of sufficient funds to assure that right-of-
way excavation and obstruction work is competed in both a timely and quality
manner.
   RESTORE or RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition that existed before the commencement of the work.
   RESTORATION COST. An amount of money paid to the city by a permittee to
cover the cost of restoration.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The surface and space above and below a public roadway,
highway, street, cartway, bicycle lane and public sidewalk in which the city
has an interest, including other dedicated RIGHTS-OF-WAY for travel purposes
and utility easements of the city.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. Either the excavation permit or the obstruction permit,
or both, depending on the context, required by this chapter.
   SERVICE or UTILITY SERVICE. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Those services provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, Subd. 4 and 6, as they may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   Telecommunications, pipeline, community antenna television, fire
and alarm communications, water, electricity, light, heat, cooling energy or
power services;
      (3)   The services provided by a corporation organized for the purposes
set forth in M.S. § 301B.01, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   The services provided by a district heating or cooling system; or
      (5)   Cable communications systems as defined in M.S. Chapter 238, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate or obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already
been issued.
    TELECOMMUNICATION RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. A person owning or controlling a
facility in the public right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in
the public right-of-way, that is used or is intended to be used for
transporting telecommunication of other voice or date information. For purposes
of this chapter, a cable communication system defined and regulated under M.S.
Chapter 238, as it may be amended from time to time, and telecommunication
activities related to providing natural gas or electric energy services are not
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USERS.
   UNUSABLE EQUIPMENT. Equipment in the right-of-way which has remained unused
for one year and for which the registrant is unable to provide proof that it
has either a plan to begin using it within the next 12 months or a potential
purchaser or user of the equipment.
(Prior Code, § 301.02)
§ 94.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Council shall be responsible for the administration of the rights-
of-way, right-of-way permits and the ordinances related thereto. The City
Council may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder to the City
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 301.03)
§ 94.04 REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Registration. Each person who occupies, uses or seeks to occupy or use
the right-of-way or any equipment in the right-of-way, including by lease,
sublease or assignment, or who has, or seeks to have, equipment in any right-
of-way must register with the city. Registration will consist of providing
application information and paying a registration fee.
   (B)   Registration prior to work. No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate or perform any other work on, or use any equipment or any part
thereof in any right-of-way without first being registered with the city.
   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the
provisions of a city ordinance permitting persons to plant or maintain
boulevard plantings or gardens in the area of the right-of-way between their
property and the street curb. Persons planting or maintaining boulevard
plantings or gardens shall not be deemed to use or occupy the right-of-way, and
shall not be required to obtain any permits or satisfy any other requirements
for planting or maintaining such boulevard plantings or gardens under this
chapter. However, excavations deeper than 12 inches are subject to the permit
requirements of §
94.07.
(Prior Code, § 301.04)
§ 94.05 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. The information provided to the city at the time
of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Each registrant’s name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
number;
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration;
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Shall be on a form approved by the city;
         (b)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or is
covered by self-insurance which the city determines to provide the city with
protections equivalent to that of a state licensed insurance company, legally
independent from the registrant;
         (c)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees; and placement and use of equipment
in the right-of-way by registrant, its officers, agents, employees and
permittees, including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising
from completed operations, damage of underground equipment and collapse of
property;
         (d)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages;
          (e)   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy; and
         (f)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, worker’s compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the city in amounts sufficient to protect the city and carry out the purposes
and policies of this chapter.
      (4)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate required
to be filed under M.S. § 333.01, as it may be amended from time to time, as
recorded and certified to by the Secretary of State;
      (5)   A copy of the person’s certificate of authority from the State
Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or federal agency, where
the person is lawfully required to have such certificate from said commission
or other state or federal agency; and
      (6)   Such other information as the city may require.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the City Administrator
information as to changes within 15 days following the date on which the
registrant has knowledge of any change.
(Prior Code, § 301.05)
§ 94.06 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Operations.
      (1)   Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by December
1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan with the City
Administrator. Such plan shall be submitted using a format designated by the
city and shall contain the information determined by the city to be necessary
to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the frequency of excavations
and obstructions of rights-of-way. The plan shall include, but not be limited
to, the following information:
         (a)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of
all projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
next-year project); and
         (b)   The tentative locations and estimated beginning and ending dates
for all projects contemplated for the five years following the next calendar
year (in this section, a five-year project). The term PROJECT in this section
shall include both next-year projects and five-year projects.
       (2)   By January 1 of each year, the City Administrator will have
available for inspection at city hall, a composite list of all projects of
which the city has been informed in the annual plans. All registrants are
responsible for keeping themselves informed of the current status of this list.
      (3)   Thereafter, by February 1, each registrant may change any project
in its list of next-year projects, and must notify the City Administrator and
all other registrants of all such changes in said list. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, a registrant may at any time join in a next-year project of another
registrant listed by the other registrant.
   (B)   Additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
may, for good cause shown, allow a registrant to submit additional next-year
projects. Good cause includes, but is not limited to, the criteria set forth in
§
94.16 concerning the discretionary issuance of permits.
(Prior Code, § 301.06)
§ 94.07 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the
appropriate right-of-way permit from the City Council to do so.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required by a registrant
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by
placing equipment described therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless such person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of-way permit before the expiration
of the initial permit, and a new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Permit display. Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed at all times at the indicated work site and shall be
available for inspection.
(Prior Code, § 301.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.08 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit is made to the City Administrator. Right-of-way
permit applications shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon
compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Registration with the city pursuant to this chapter;
   (B)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all existing and proposed equipment;
   (C)   Payment of all money due to the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees and costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any loss, damage or expense suffered by the city because of
applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way or any
emergency actions taken by the city; or
      (4)   Franchise fees, if applicable.
   (D)   When an excavation permit is requested for purposes of installing
additional equipment, and the posting of a restoration bond for the additional
equipment is insufficient, the posting of an additional or larger restoration
bond for the additional equipment may be required.
(Prior Code, § 301.08)
§ 94.09 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the City Council determines that the applicant has
satisfied the requirements of this chapter, the City Administrator may issue a
permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The City Council may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the public health, safety and welfare, to ensure the structural
integrity of the right-of-way, to protect the property and safety of other
users of the right-of-way, and to minimize the disruption and inconvenience to
the traveling public.
(Prior Code, § 301.09)
§ 94.10 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The excavation permit fee shall be established
by the City Council in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city cost; and
      (2)   Degradation cost, if applicable.
   (B)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of such fees before the issuance of such a
permit. All permit fees shall be doubled during a probationary period.
   (C)   Non-refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the city
has revoked for a breach as stated in §
94.20 are not refundable.
   (D)   Use of permit fees. All excavation permit fees shall be used solely
for city management, construction, maintenance and repair costs of the right-
of-way.
(Prior Code, § 301.10)
§ 94.11 RIGHT-OF-WAY REPAIR AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing.
      (1)   The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the repair and
restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be completed within
the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days as work could not
be done because of extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under §
94.14.
      (2)   In addition to repairing its own work, the permittee must restore
the general area of the work, and the surrounding areas, including the paving
and its foundations, to the same condition that existed before the commencement
of the work and must inspect the area of the work and use reasonable care to
maintain the same condition for 36 months thereafter.
   (B)   Repair and restoration. Permittee shall repair its own work. In
addition, the permittee must restore the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If, during the 36 months following such
restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee’s improper backfilling, the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of
repairing said pavement.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. The permittee shall at the time of
application for an excavation permit post a restoration bond in an amount
determined by the City Council to be sufficient to cover the cost of restoring
the right-of-way to its pre-excavation condition. If, 36 months after
completion of the restoration of the right-of-way, the city determines that the
right-of-way has been properly restored, the surety on the restoration bond
shall be released.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform repairs and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the city. The
city shall have the authority to prescribe the manner and extent of the
restoration, and may do so in written procedures of general application or on a
case-by-case basis. The city in exercising this authority shall be guided by
the following standards and considerations:
      (1)   The number, size, depth and duration of the excavations,
disruptions or damage to the right-of-way;
      (2)   The traffic volume carried by the right-of-way; the character of
the neighborhood surrounding the right-of-way;
      (3)   The pre-excavation condition of the right-of-way; the remaining
life expectancy of the right-of-way affected by the excavation;
      (4)   Whether the relative cost of the method of restoration to the
permittee is in reasonable balance with the prevention of an accelerated
depreciation of the right-of-way that would otherwise result from the
excavation, disturbance or damage to the right-of-way; and
      (5)   The likelihood that the particular method of restoration would be
effective in slowing the depreciation of the right-of-way that would otherwise
take place.
   (D)   Guarantees. The permittee guarantees its work and shall maintain it
for 36 months following its completion. During this 36-month period, it shall,
upon notification from the city, correct all restoration work to the extent
necessary, using the method required by the city. The work shall be completed
within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the city, not
including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonal or
unreasonable under §
94.14.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city, at its option, may do such work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights under the
restoration bond.
   (F)   Degradation fee. A permittee shall pay to the city a degradation fee
to cover city costs associated with a decrease in the useful life of a public
right-of-way caused by excavation and repairs. Payment of a degradation fee
does not relieve permittee of the obligation to make necessary right-of-way
repairs.
(Prior Code, § 301.11)
§ 94.12 JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Joint application. Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   With city projects. Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction or
excavation performed by the city, whether or not it is a joint application by
two or more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay the
degradation portions of the permit fee.
   (C)   Shared fees. Registrants who apply for permits for the same
excavation, may share in the payment of the obstruction or excavation permit
fee. Registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each will pay
and indicate the same on their applications.
(Prior Code, § 301.12)
§ 94.13 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit valid only for the area of
the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work outside
the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any permittee
which determines that an area greater than that specified in the permit must be
obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater area make
application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees required
thereby, and be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs and receive the new permit or
an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be done before the permit
end date.
(Prior Code, § 301.13)
§ 94.14 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses
and authority, and to pay all fees required by any other city, county, state or
federal rules, laws or regulations. A permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, state and federal laws, including M.S. §§ 216D.01
through 216D.09, as they may be amended from time to time (“One Call Excavation
Notice System”). A permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all
applicable codes and established rules and regulations, and is responsible for
all work done in the right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who
does the work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
city, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonably
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way. A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage for water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles may not
be parked within or next to a permit area. The loading or unloading of trucks
next to a permit area is prohibited unless specifically authorized by the
permit.
(Prior Code, § 301.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.15 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Mandatory denial. Except in an emergency, no right-of-way permit will
be granted:
      (1)   To any person required by §
94.05 to be registered who has not done so;
      (2)   To any person required by §
94.08 to file an annual report but has failed to do so;
      (3)   For any next-year project not listed in the construction and major
maintenance plan required under §
94.08;
      (4)   For any project which requires the excavation of any portion of a
right-of-way which was constructed or reconstructed within the preceding five
years;
      (5)   To any person who has failed within the past three years to comply,
or is presently not in full compliance with the requirements of this chapter;
      (6)   To any person as to whom there exists grounds for the revocation
for a permit under §
94.21; or
      (7)   If, in the discretion of the City Council, the issuance of a permit
for the particular date and/or time would cause a conflict or interfere with an
exhibition, celebration, festival or any other event. The city, in exercising
this discretion, shall be guided by the safety and convenience of ordinary
travel of the public over the right-of-way, and by considerations relating to
the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Permissive denial. The city may deny a permit to protect the public
health, safety and welfare, to prevent interference with the safety and
convenience of ordinary travel over the right-of-way, or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its users. The City Council, in its discretion,
may consider one or more of the following factors:
      (1)   The extent to which right-of-way space where the permit is sought
is available;
      (2)   The competing demands for the particular space in the right-of-way;
      (3)   The availability of other locations in the right-of-way or in other
rights-of-way for the equipment of the permit applicant;
      (4)   The applicability of ordinance or other regulations of the right-
of-way that affect location of equipment in the right-of-way;
      (5)   The degree of compliance of the applicant with the terms and
conditions of its franchise, this chapter and other applicable ordinances and
regulations;
      (6)   The degree of disruption to surrounding communities and businesses
that will result from the use of that part of the right-of-way;
      (7)   The condition and age of the right-of-way, and whether and when it
is scheduled for total or partial reconstruction; and
      (8)   The balancing of the costs of disruption to the public and damage
to the right-of-way, against the benefits to that part of the public served by
the expansion into additional parts of the right-of-way.
   (C)   Discretionary issuance. Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions
(A)(3) and (A)(4) above, the city may issue a permit in any case where the
permit is necessary to prevent substantial economic hardship to a customer of
the permit applicant; to allow the customer to materially improve its utility
service; or to allow a new economic development project, or otherwise required
by law; and where the permit applicant did not have knowledge of the hardship,
the plans for improvement of service, or the development project when the
applicant was required to submit its list of next-year projects.
   (D)   Permits for additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the
provisions of division (A)(3) above, the city may issue a permit to a
registrant who was allowed under §
94.06(B), to submit an additional next-year project, the permit to be subject
to all other conditions and requirements of law, including such conditions as
may be imposed under §
94.09.
(Prior Code, § 301.15)
§ 94.16 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, repair and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with the current
State D.O.T. standard specifications for street openings and at a location as
required by §
94.22.
(Prior Code, § 301.16)
§ 94.17 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall notify the City Administrator.
   (B)   Site inspection. The permittee shall make the work-site available to
the City Administrator and any other city employees designated by the City
Administrator and to all others authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of City Administrator. At the time of inspection, the City
Administrator may order the immediate cessation of any work which poses a
serious threat to the life, health, safety or well-being of the public. The
City Administrator may issue an order to the registrant for any work which does
not conform to the applicable standards, conditions or codes. The order shall
state that failure to correct the violation will be cause for revocation of the
permit. Within ten days after issuance of the order, the registrant shall
present proof to the City Administrator that the violation has been corrected.
If the proof has not been presented within the required time, the City
Administrator may revoke the permit pursuant to §
94.21.
(Prior Code, § 301.17)
§ 94.18 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.
      (1)   Each registrant shall immediately notify the City Administrator of
any event regarding its equipment which it considers to be an emergency. The
registrant may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to respond to the
emergency. Within two business days after the occurrence of the emergency, the
registrant shall apply for the necessary permits, pay the fees associated
therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself
into compliance with this chapter for the actions it took in response to the
emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant’s
equipment, the city may attempt to contact the local representative of each
registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event,
the city may take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the
emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the registrant whose equipment
occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, pay double the normal fee for
said permit, pay double all the other fees required by this code, deposit with
the City Administrator the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-
of-way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 301.18)
§ 94.19 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, the permittee shall notify the City
Administrator of the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Prior Code, § 301.19)
§ 94.20 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. Registrants hold permits issued pursuant to this
chapter as a privilege and not as a right. The city reserves its right, as
provided herein, to revoke any right-of-way permit, without a fee refund, if
there is a substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute,
ordinance, rule or regulation, or any condition of the permit. A substantial
breach by permittee shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of facts in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to maintain the required bonds and/or insurance;
      (5)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; or
      (6)   The failure to correct a condition indicated on an order issued
pursuant to §
94.17.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the City Administrator determines that
the permittee has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any
statute, ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit, the City
Administrator shall make a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such
violation. The demand shall state that continued violations may be cause for
revocation of the permit. Further, a substantial breach, as stated above, will
allow the city, at its discretion, to place additional or revised conditions on
the permit.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall contact the City Administrator with
a plan, acceptable to the city, for its correction. Permittee’s failure to so
contact the City Administrator, or the permittee’s failure to submit an
acceptable plan, or permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved
plan, shall be cause for immediate revocation of the permit. Further,
permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
automatically place the permittee on probation for one full year.
   (D)   Cause for probation. From time to time, the city may establish a list
of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place the
permittee on probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to, working
out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way grossly outside the
permit.
   (E)   Automatic revocation. If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, permittee’s permit will automatically be revoked and
permittee will not be allowed further permits for one full year, except for
emergency repairs.
   (F)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city’s reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred in connection with the revocation.
(Prior Code, § 301.20)
§ 94.21 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B) below, each registrant shall
provide to the City Administrator information indicating the horizontal and
vertical location, relative to the boundaries of the right-of-way, all
equipment which it owns or over which it has control and which is located in
any right-of-way (mapping data). Mapping data shall be provided with the
specificity and in the format requested by the City Administrator for inclusion
in the mapping system used by the city.
   (2)   Within six months after the acquisition, installation or construction
of additional equipment or any relocation, abandonment or disuse of existing
equipment, each registrant shall supplement the mapping data required herein.
      (3)   Each registrant shall, within six months after the date of passage
of this chapter, submit a plan to the City Council specifying in detail the
steps it will take to comply with the requirements of this section. The plan
shall provide for the submission of all mapping data for the business district
within two years after the date of passage of this chapter, and for the
remainder of the city as early as may be reasonable and practical, but not
later than five years after the date of passage of this chapter.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, mapping data shall be submitted by
all registrants for all equipment which is to be installed or constructed after
the date of passage of this chapter at any time permits are sought under these
ordinances.
      (5)   After six months after the passage of this chapter, a new
registrant, or a registrant which has not submitted a plan as required above,
shall submit complete and accurate mapping data for all its equipment at the
time any permits are sought under these circumstances.
   (B)   Telecommunication equipment. Information on existing facilities and
equipment of telecommunications right-of-way users need only be supplied in the
form maintained by the telecommunications right-of-way user.
   (C)   Trade secret information. At the request of any registrant, any
information requested by the City Administrator, which qualifies as a trade-
secret under M.S. § 13.37(b), as it may be amended from time to time, shall be
treated as trade secret information as detailed therein. With respect to the
provision of mapping data, the city may consider unique circumstances from time
to time required to obtain mapping data.
(Prior Code, § 301.21)
§ 94.22 LOCATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Undergrounding. Unless otherwise permitted by an existing franchise or
unless existing above-ground equipment is repaired or replaced, new
construction and the installation of new equipment and replacement of old
equipment shall be done underground or contained within buildings or other
structures in conformity with applicable codes.
   (B)   Corridors.
      (1)   The City Council may assign specific corridors within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
equipment that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation or other permits
issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of equipment shall
designate the proper corridor for the equipment at issue.
      (2)   Any registrant whose equipment is in the right-of-way in a position
at variance with the corridors established by the city shall, no later than at
the time of the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where its
equipment is located, move that equipment to its assigned position within the
right-of-way, unless this requirement is waived by the City Council for good
cause shown, upon consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life
of the facilities, public safely, customer service needs and hardship to the
registrant.
   (C)   Nuisance. One year after the passage of this chapter, any equipment
found in a right-of-way that has not been registered shall be deemed to be a
nuisance. The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in
equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or taking
possession of the equipment and restoring the right-of-way to useable
condition.
   (D)   Limitation of space. To protect health and safety, the City Council
shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional
equipment within the right-of-way if there is insufficient space to accommodate
all of the requests of registrants or persons to occupy and use the right-of-
way. In making such decisions, the City Council shall strive to the extent
possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-of-way,
but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest, the
public’s needs for the particular utility service, the condition of the right-
of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the protection of
existing equipment in the right-of-way, and future city plans for public
improvements and development projects which have been determined to be in the
public interest.
(Prior Code, § 301.22)
§ 94.23 RELOCATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   A registrant must promptly and at its own expense, with due regard for
seasonal working conditions, permanently remove and relocate its equipment and
facilities in the right-of-way whenever the city requests the removal and
relocation, and shall restore the right-of-way to the same condition it was in
prior to the removal and relocation.
   (B)   The city may make the request to prevent interference by the company’s
equipment or facilities with a present or future city use of the right-of-way;
a public improvement undertaken by the city; an economic development project in
which the city has an interest or investment; when the public health, safety
and welfare require it; or when necessary to prevent interference with the
safety and convenience of ordinary travel over the right-of-way.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a person shall not be required to
remove or relocate its equipment from any right-of-way which has been vacated
in favor of a non-governmental entity unless and until the reasonable costs
thereof are first paid to the person therefor.
(Prior Code, § 301.23)
§ 94.24 PRE-EXCAVATION EQUIPMENT LOCATION.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. §§ 216D.01 through
216D.09, as they may be amended from time to time, (“One Call Excavation Notice
System”) before the start date of any right-of-way excavation, each registrant
who has equipment in the area to be excavated shall mark the horizontal and
approximate vertical placement of all said equipment. Any registrant whose
equipment is less than 20 inches below a concrete or asphalt surface shall
notify and work closely with the excavation contractor to establish the exact
location of its equipment and the best procedure for excavation.
(Prior Code, § 301.24)
§ 94.25 DAMAGE TO OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support or move a registrant’s equipment to protect it, the City
Administrator shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably
possible. The costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and
must be paid within 30 days from the date of billing.
   (B)   Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any
equipment in the right-of-way which it or its equipment damages. Each
registrant shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any damage to the
equipment of another registrant caused during the city’s response to an
emergency occasioned by that registrant’s equipment.
(Prior Code, § 301.25)
§ 94.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   (A)   Reservation of right. If the city vacates a right-of-way which
contains the equipment of a registrant, and if the vacation does not require
the relocation of registrant or permittee equipment, the city shall reserve, to
and for itself and all registrants having equipment in the vacated right-of-
way, the right to install, maintain and operate any equipment in the vacated
right-of-way and to enter upon such right-of-way at any time for the purpose of
reconstructing, inspecting, maintaining or repairing the same.
   (B)   Relocation of equipment. If the vacation requires the relocation of
registrant or permittee equipment; and if the vacation proceedings are
initiated by the registrant or permittee, the registrant or permittee must pay
the relocation costs; if the vacation proceedings are initiated by the city,
the registrant or permittee must pay the relocations costs unless otherwise
agreed to by the city and the registrant or permittee; or if the vacation
proceedings are initiated by a person or persons other than the registrant or
permittee, such other person or persons must pay the relocations costs.
(Prior Code, § 301.26)
§ 94.27 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Limitation of liability. By reason of the acceptance of a registration
or the grant of a right-of-way permit, the city does not assume any liability
for injuries to persons, damage to property or loss of service claims by
parties other than the registrant or the city, or for claims or penalties of
any sort resulting from the installation, presence, maintenance or operation of
equipment by registrants or activities of registrants.
   (B)   Indemnification. By registering with the City Administrator, a
registrant agrees, or by accepting a permit under this chapter, a permittee is
required, to defend, indemnify and hold the city whole and harmless from all
costs, liabilities and claims for damages of any kind arising out of the
construction, presence, installation, maintenance, repair or operation of its
equipment, or out of any activity undertaken in or near a right-of-way, whether
or not any act or omission complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited
by a right-of-way permit. It further agrees that it will not bring, nor cause
to be brought, any action, suit or other proceeding claiming damages, or
seeking any other relief against the city for any claim nor for any award
arising out of the presence, installation, maintenance or operation of its
equipment, or any activity undertaken in or near a right-of-way, whether or not
the act or omission complained of it authorized, allowed or prohibited by a
right-of-way permit. The foregoing does not indemnify the city for its own
negligence except for claims arising out of or alleging the city’s negligence
where such negligence arises out of or is primarily related to the presence,
installation, construction, operation, maintenance or repair of said equipment
by the registrant or on the registrant’s behalf, including, but not limited to,
the issuance of permits and inspection of plans or work. This section is not,
as to third parties, a waiver of any defense or immunity otherwise available to
the registrant or to the city; and the registrant, in defending any action on
behalf of the city, shall be entitled to assert in any action every defense or
immunity that the city could assert on its own behalf.
(Prior Code, § 301.27)
§ 94.28 FUTURE USES.
   In placing any equipment, or allowing it to be placed, in the right-of-way,
the city is not liable for any damages caused thereby to any registrant’s
equipment which is already in place. No registrant is entitled to rely on the
provisions of this chapter, and no special duty is created as to any
registrant. This chapter is enacted to protect the general health, welfare and
safety of the public at large.
(Prior Code, § 301.28)
§ 94.29 ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue its operations in the city must either:
      (1)   Provide information satisfactory to the City Administrator that the
registrant’s obligations for its equipment in the right-of-way under this
chapter have been lawfully assumed by another registrant; or
      (2)   Submit to the City Administrator a proposal and instruments for
transferring ownership of its equipment to the city. If a registrant proceeds
under this clause, the city may, at its option:
         (a)   Purchase the equipment;
         (b)   Require the registrant, at its own expense, to remove it; or
         (c)   Require the registrant to post a bond in an amount sufficient to
reimburse the city for reasonably anticipated costs to be incurred in removing
the equipment.
   (B)   Abandoned equipment. Equipment of a registrant who fails to comply
with division (A) above, and which, for two years, remains unused shall be
deemed to be abandoned. Abandoned equipment is deemed to be a nuisance. The
city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity, including,
but not limited to, abating the nuisance, taking possession of the equipment
and restoring it to a useable condition, or requiring removal of the equipment
by the registrant, or the registrant’s successor in interest.
   (C)   Removal. Any registrant who has unusable and abandoned equipment in
any right-of-way shall remove it from that right-of-way during the next
scheduled excavation, unless this requirement is waived by the city.
(Prior Code, § 301.29)
§ 94.30 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The city by granting of a right-of-way permit, or by registering a
person under this chapter does not surrender or to any extent lose, waive,
impair or lessen the lawful powers and rights, which it has now or may be
hereafter granted to the city under the Constitution and statutes of the state
to regulate the use of right-of-way by the permittee; and the permittee by its
acceptance of a right-of-way permit or of registration under this chapter
agrees that all lawful powers and rights, regulatory power or police power, or
otherwise as are or the same may be from time to time vested in or reserved to
the city, shall be in full force and effect and subject to the exercise thereof
by the city at any time. A permittee or registrant is deemed to acknowledge
that its rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the city to
adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to the safety and welfare of the
public and is deemed to agree to comply with all applicable general laws and
ordinances enacted by the city pursuant to their powers.
   (B)   Any conflict between the provisions of a registration or of a right-
of-way permit and any other present or future lawful exercise of the city’s
regulatory or police powers shall be resolved in favor of the latter.
(Prior Code, § 301.30)
§ 94.31 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court or
administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a
separate, distinct and independent provision and such holding shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions thereof. If a regulatory body or a court
of competent jurisdiction should determine by a final, non-appealable order
that any permit, right or registration issued under this chapter or any
portions of this chapter is illegal or unenforceable, then any such permit,
right or registration granted or deemed to exist hereunder shall be considered
as a revocable permit with mutual right in either party to terminate without
cause upon giving 60 days written notice to the other. The requirements and
conditions of such a revocable permit shall be the same requirements and
conditions as set forth in the permit, right or registration, respectively,
except for conditions relating to the term of the permit and the right of
termination. If a permit, right or registration shall be considered a revocable
permit as provided herein, the permittee must acknowledge the authority of the
City Council to issue such revocable permit and the power to revoke it. Nothing
in this chapter precludes the city from requiring a franchise agreement with
the applicant, as allowed by law, in addition to the requirements set forth
herein.
(Prior Code, § 301.31)
§ 94.32 TEMPORARY OBSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   (A)   A temporary obstruction permit is required whenever a dumpster,
storage container or other object is placed within the city’s public right-of-
way (streets, boulevards, sidewalks, alleys and other rights-of-way). No
dumpsters, storage containers or other objects are allowed on the street or in
the right-of-way unless approval has been granted by the city and a permit has
been issued.
   (B)   The city encourages property owners to place dumpsters or storage
containers on their property, but if there is no room on the property, the
property owner may request a temporary obstruction permit from the city to
allow the dumpster or storage container to be placed on the street or in the
public right-of-way for a maximum of three days.
   (C)   All permit holders for dumpsters, storage containers or other objects
in the right-of-way must comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The dumpster or storage container must be placed at least ten feet
away from a fire hydrant and cannot block access to visible valve locations;
      (2)   The dumpster or storage container shall not be placed in such a way
that it blocks traffic or poses a safety risk to the public;
      (3)   Warning devices shall be used, including, but not limited to,
reflective signs, cones and/or reflective tape;
      (4)   No debris or trash shall be left on the street, sidewalk or public
right-of-way around the dumpster or storage container;
      (5)   The permit holder is responsible for any damage resulting from the
use or placement of a dumpster, storage container or other object within the
public right-of-way, and is required to repair and/or reimburse the city for
any damage to city property including pavement, curbs, sidewalks, trees,
utilities, grass area or other public property; and
      (6)   The temporary obstruction permit must be displayed where it can
visibly be seen by city employees. During the winter season, dumpsters and
storage containers are not allowed where there are parking restrictions.
Penalty, see §
10.99
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY DESIGN GUIDELINES
§ 94.45 PURPOSE AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   In implementing this chapter, the City Council finds that in order to
protect the public health, safety and welfare of its citizens and to reasonably
manage and protect the public rights-of-way and its uses in the city, it is in
the best interest of the city and its residents and businesses to establish
small wireless facility design guidelines to provide the aesthetic requirements
and other specifications and reasonable conditions that small wireless
facilities and wireless support structures installed within the public right-
of-way must meet prior to and following installation.
   (B)   The objective of these guidelines is to strike a balance between
preserving and protecting the character of the city through careful design,
siting and camouflaging techniques to blend these facilities into their
surrounding environment and provide other reasonable conditions upon such
placement and use of the right-of-way, while enhancing the ability of small
wireless facilities carriers to deploy small wireless facilities and wireless
support structures in the city effectively and efficiently so that residents,
businesses and visitors benefit from ubiquitous and robust wireless service
availability.
   (C)   These guidelines apply to requests to locate small wireless facilities
in the right-of-way and ongoing use of the right-of-way for such purposes.
These guidelines are established pursuant to this chapter and applicable law.
These guidelines are administered through the permitting process contained
therein as conducted by the city administration.
   (D)   Placement or modification of small wireless facilities and/or wireless
support structures shall comply with these guidelines at the time the permit
for installation or modification is approved and as amended from time to time.
Wireless service providers and permittees are required to comply with this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 301.32)
§ 94.46 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions contained in M.S. § 237.162, as it may be amended from time
to time, are incorporated into this subchapter by reference as though fully set
forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 301.32)
§ 94.47 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to placing, installing, modifying, relocating or removing a small
wireless facility or wireless support structure in the right-of-way, or to
collocating a wireless facility on an existing wireless support structure in
the right-of-way, the operator shall apply for and receive a permit from the
city. In addition to the application requirements established in this chapter,
the information identified in this section must be included for the application
to be considered complete, except that where such information is already in the
city’s possession from previous applications, or where the applicant previously
filed information and specifications for standard materials that are being
utilized in the new application, such information shall be referenced but need
not be resubmitted. The city may require additional information as reasonably
necessary to evaluate the application and the impact of the proposed
installation(s) on the public health, safety and welfare or on use or
management of the right-of-way.
   (A)   Proof of agent designation (if applicable). If the applicant is
serving as an agent of a small wireless operator, the applicant must provide
written documentation of the agent designation signed by the operator.
   (B)   Map. The applicant must include an aerial map showing the location of
the proposed or existing support structure to which the small wireless facility
is proposed to be attached or from which a small wireless facility is proposed
to be removed.
   (C)   Photo simulations. For all applications to locate small wireless
facilities in the right-of- way, the applicant shall provide photo simulations
from at least two reasonable line-of-site locations near the proposed project
site. The photo simulations must be taken from the viewpoints of the greatest
pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Consolidated applications. An applicant seeking to construct, modify,
collocate or replace more than one small wireless facility or more than one
wireless support structure within the city may file a consolidated application
for multiple small wireless facility requests or wireless support structure
requests provided the requests grouped on a consolidated application only
address substantially the same type of small wireless facilities or
substantially the same type of wireless support structures. (Note: the city may
treat each request individually during application review and processing and
when issuing a determination or applying these guidelines.)
   (E)   Site and other plans and structural calculations. The applicant must
include fully dimensioned site plans, elevation drawings and structural
calculations that depict any known existing wireless facilities with all
existing transmission equipment and other improvements, the proposed facility
with all proposed transmission equipment and other improvements, and the legal
boundaries of the existing right-of-way and any associated access and utility
easements. Fully dimensioned site plans shall indicate the spacing from
existing curb, driveways, sidewalks, light poles and any other poles or
appurtenances.
   (F)   Full description of number and dimensions of facilities and/or
structures to be installed. The applicant must include a full description of
the number and dimensions of all small wireless facilities proposed to be
installed and the wireless support structure, either new or existing, to be
utilized for each small wireless facility. For all equipment proposed to be
installed, the applicant must include: the manufacturer’s name and model
number; physical dimensions, including without limitation, height, width, depth
and weight with mounts and other necessary hardware; and the ambient noise
level generated from the equipment, if any.
   (G)   Owner’s authorization. For any application to attach a small wireless
facility to a wireless support structure that is not owned by the city, the
applicant must submit evidence sufficient to show that either: applicant owns
the proposed support structure; or applicant has obtained the owner’s written
authorization to file the application.
(Prior Code, § 301.32)
§ 94.48 AESTHETIC REQUIREMENTS FOR SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Antennas.
      (1)   Each small wireless antenna shall be located entirely within a
shroud or canister type enclosure.
      (2)   The diameter of the antenna enclosure at its widest point should
not be wider than two times the diameter of the top of the wireless support
structure. The enclosure shall not exceed six cubic feet in volume.
      (3)   All antenna enclosures shall either be mounted to the top of the
wireless support structure pole and aligned with the centerline of the wireless
support structure, or mounted to the side of the wireless support structure
such that the vertical centerline of the antenna enclosure shall be parallel
with the wireless support structure with the height of the side mounted antenna
being at a location on the wireless support structure noted in the application
and approved by the city, but at least ten feet above ground level at its
lowest point.
      (4)   Tree topping or the improper pruning of trees is prohibited. Any
proposed pruning or removal of trees, shrubs or other landscaping already
existing in the right-of-way must be noted in the application and must be
approved by the city.
   (B)   Cables and wires. All cables, wires and connectors related to the
small wireless facility must be fully concealed on the wireless support
structure and shall match the color of the wireless support structure. There
shall be no external cables and wires related to the small wireless facility
hanging off or otherwise exposed on the wireless support structure.
   (C)   Colors. All colors shall match the background of any wireless support
structure that the facilities are located upon, including equipment cabinets.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of existing wood utility poles,
finishes of conduit shall be zinc, aluminum or stainless steel, or colored to
match those metal finishes, and equipment cabinets shall be the color of
brushed aluminum.
   (D)   Equipment enclosures/concealment.
      (1)   Equipment enclosures, including electric meters, shall be as small
as possible, but in no event larger than 28 cubic feet in volume. Ground-
mounted equipment shall incorporate concealment elements into the proposed
design matching color and materials of the wireless support structure, unless
other materials or colors are approved by the city. Concealment may include,
but shall not be limited to, landscaping, strategic placement in less obtrusive
locations and placement within existing or replacement street furniture.
      (2)   Radio equipment shall be fully enclosed within an equipment cabinet
or concealed within the antenna shroud enclosure matching the color and
materials of the wireless support structure, unless other materials or colors
are approved by the city.
      (3)   Landscaping concealing equipment enclosures shall be planted in
such quantity and size such that 100% screening is achieved within two years of
installation.
   (E)   Signage/logos/lights/decals/cooling fans.
      (1)   Signage. The small wireless facility permittee shall post its name,
location identifying information and emergency telephone number in an area on
the cabinet of the small wireless facility that is visible to the public.
Signage required under this section shall not exceed four inches by six inches,
unless otherwise required by law (e.g., radio frequency (RF) ground
notification signs) or the city. If no cabinet exists, the signage shall be
placed at the base of the pole.
      (2)   Lights. New small wireless facilities and wireless support
structures shall not be illuminated, except in accord with state or federal
regulations, or unless illumination is integral to the camouflaging strategy
such as design intended to look like a street light pole.
      (3)   Logos/decals. The small wireless facility operator/permittee shall
remove or paint over unnecessary equipment manufacturer decals. The color shall
match or shall be as approved by the city. Small wireless facilities and
wireless support structures shall not include advertisements and may only
display information required by a federal, state or local agency. The small
wireless facility operator/permittee shall utilize the smallest and lowest
visibility radio frequency warning sticker required by government or electric
utility regulations. Placement of the radio frequency sticker shall be as close
to the antenna as possible.
      (4)   Cooling fans. In residential areas, the small wireless facility
operator/permittee shall use a passive cooling system. In the event that a fan
is needed, the small wireless facility operator/permittee shall use a cooling
fan with a low noise profile.
(Prior Code, § 301.32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.49 LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Most preferable locations. The following are the most preferred areas
for new small wireless facilities in the order of preference (division (A)(1)
being most preferable):
      (1)   Industrial districts if not adjacent to a park, residential
district or historic district;
      (2)   Highway rights-of-way areas if not adjacent to a park or
residential district; and
      (3)   Retail and commercial districts if not adjacent to a park or
residential district.
   (B)   Collocation preference. It is the city’s strong preference that
whenever an applicant proposes to place a new small wireless facility that the
applicant collocate the same on existing wireless support structures.
   (C)   Least preferable locations. The following are the least preferred
areas for new small wireless facilities in the order of preference (division
(C)(3) being least preferable):
      (1)   Residential districts;
      (2)   Parks; and
      (3)   Historic districts.
   (D)   Consideration of alternate locations. The city reserves the right to
propose an alternate location for a small wireless facility and/or wireless
support structure to the location proposed in the application within 100 feet
of the proposed location or within a distance that is equivalent to the width
of the right-of-way in or on which the small wireless facility and/or wireless
support structure is proposed, whichever is greater, which the operator shall
use if it has the right to use the alternate location on reasonable terms and
conditions and the alternate location does not impose technical limits or
additional costs.
   (E)   Guidelines on placement.
      (1)   The city desires to promote cleanly organized and streamlined
facilities using the smallest and least intrusive means available to provide
wireless services to the community. Generally, a small wireless facility and/or
wireless support structure shall match and be consistent with the materials and
finish of the wireless support structure, adjacent city poles and of the
surrounding area adjacent to their location. In the absence of adjacent city
poles, the wireless support structure shall match the materials and finish of
the adjacent utility poles.
      (2)   The following additional guidelines on placement shall apply.
         (a)   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located no closer than 150 feet away, radially, from another small wireless
facility and wireless support structure.
         (b)   A combination wireless support structure and streetlight pole
should only be located where an existing pole (usually MiEnergy) can be removed
and replaced, or at a new location where it has been identified that a
streetlight is necessary.
         (c)   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located in a manner that does not impede, obstruct or hinder usual public
pedestrian or vehicular travel or public safety on a right-of-way.
         (d)   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located in a manner that does not obstruct the legal use of a right-of-way
by a utility provider.
         (e)   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located in a manner that does not violate or conflict with this chapter.
         (f)   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located in a manner that does not violate the federal Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
         (g)   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located in a manner that does not negatively impact the structural integrity
of the associated wireless support structure.
         (h)   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located in alignment with existing trees, utility poles and streetlights.
         (i)   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located equal distance between trees when possible, with a minimum of 15
feet separation such that no proposed disturbance shall occur within the
critical root zone of any tree.
         (j)   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located with appropriate clearance from existing utilities.
         (k)   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located so as not to be located along the frontage of any building deemed to
be of historic significance on a federal, state or local level.
         (l)   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located not within sight triangles at street intersections.
         (m)   New wireless support structures shall not be located directly in
front of any existing residential, commercial or industrial structure.
         (n)   To the greatest extent possible, new wireless support structures
shall be located in line with existing lot lines or an equidistance from any
two existing structures. In areas of the city where multiple structures abut
each other and/or where no side lot setback requirements exist, new wireless
support structures shall not be located directly in front of an entrance or
window of any existing structure.
(Prior Code, § 301.32)
§ 94.50 LIMITATIO NS.
   While the city fully intends to apply the guidelines established in this
policy uniformly to all small wireless facility applications, there may be
circumstances where not every specific guideline may be met. In these cases,
city staff will use its reasonable discretion in approving small wireless
facilities permit applications that deviate from the strict application of this
policy.
(Prior Code, § 301.32)
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Assessable Current Services; Obligation of Property Owners and Occupants
   
95.01   Definition
   
95.02   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish
   
95.03   Installation and repair of water service lines
Local Improvement Policy
   
95.15   Branch service lines
   
95.16   Certification of assessments
ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES; OBLIGATION
OF PROPERTY OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS
§ 95.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURRENT SERVICE. One or more of the following: snow, ice or rubbish removal
from sidewalks; installation or repair of water service lines; trimming and
care of trees and removal of unsound and insect-infected trees from the public
streets or private property.
(Prior Code, § 302.01)
§ 95.02 SNOW, ICE, DIRT AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   Duty of owners.
      (1)   The owner of any property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use
diligence to keep such walk safe for pedestrians. No such owner shall allow
snow, ice, dirt or rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its
deposit thereon.
      (2)   The owner as determined by tax records of the County Auditor of any
present interest in any lot or parcel of land in the city abutting or joining
any public sidewalk shall keep such sidewalk in good repair as defined by the
City Engineer. The duty to keep such sidewalks in repair shall include, but not
be limited to, the obligation to replace said sidewalk in the event that it has
become so cracked or uneven in surface as to present an unreasonable safety
hazard for pedestrians.
   (B)   Removal by the city. The Public Works Director or his or her agent has
the authority to remove all snow, ice, dirt and rubbish from all public
sidewalks 24 hours after any snow, ice, dirt and rubbish has been deposited
thereon or snow has ceased to fall. The Public Works Director shall keep a
record of the cost of said removal and the lot or lots adjacent to which such
accumulations were found and removed, and shall deliver such information to the
City Administrator as soon as the work of removal is completed. The City
Administrator shall bill the owner for all such current services performed by
the city or its agent and shall certify any such unpaid services to the County
Auditor.
   (C)   Cost of removal to be assessed. Violations of this section shall be
declared public nuisances and the Public Works Director shall calculate the
cost of the removal of snow or ice against the lot or parcels of ground
abutting on alleys or streets or other public property which were cleared. The
sum is to be billed to the appropriate property owner(s). If the bill is not
paid within 60 days, the City Administrator shall, upon direction of the City
Council, certify with the County Auditor the amount for collection as other
special taxes are certified and collected. For purposes of this section, the
City Council shall annually establish by resolution the hourly rate to be
applied for removal of such ice and snow by the Public Works Director or agent.
   (D)   Civil suit for cost of removal. The City Administrator shall, at the
direction of the Council, bring suit in any court of competent jurisdiction to
recover the cost of said clearing and the cost of suit in a civil action from
the person owning land adjacent to which-sidewalks were cleared.
   (E)   Fire hydrants. The owner of any property adjacent to a fire hydrant
shall use diligence to keep a three-foot radius clear around the fire hydrant.
No such owner shall allow snow or other obstructions to impede the operation of
a fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 302.02) (Ord. 2023-03, passed 12-27-2023)
§ 95.03 INSTALLATION AND REPAIR OF WATER SERVICE LINES.
   Whenever the city installs or repairs a water service line serving private
property under Title V of this code, the City Superintendent shall keep a
record of the total cost of the installation or repair against the property and
deliver such information to the City Administrator annually by September 1 as
to each parcel of property on which the cost has not been paid.
(Prior Code, § 302.03)
LOCAL IMPROVEMENT POLICY
§ 95.15 BRANCH SERVICE LINES.
   Water and sewer lines shall be installed from the main to the front property
line of property to be served before any permanent street surfacing is
constructed in the street. If any property owner fails to put in such water and
sewer lines within 30 days after notice from the City Administrator, the City
Council shall proceed to have water and sewer service installed and to assess
the cost against the property.
(Prior Code, § 302.05)
§ 95.16 CERTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENTS.
   After the adoption of any special assessment by the Council, the City
Administrator shall transmit a certified duplicate of the assessment roll with
each installment, including interest, set forth separately to the County
Auditor to be extended on the proper tax lists of the county.
(Prior Code, § 302.07)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSING GENERALLY
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
113.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      114.   MOBILE FOOD UNITS
CHAPTER 110: LICENSING GENERALLY
Section
   
110.01   Licenses and permits
   
110.02   Fees
   
110.03   Duration of license
   
110.04   Transfers
   
110.05   Inspection
   
110.06   Duties of licensee
   
110.07   Suspension or revocation
§ 110.01 LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   General rule. Except as otherwise provided in this code, all licenses
and permits granted by the city shall be governed by the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Acts prohibited. No person shall conduct any activity or use any
property for which a license or permit is required by law or this code without
a currently valid license or permit for such activity or use.
   (C)   Application. Every application for a license shall be made to the City
Administrator on a form provided by him or her. It shall be accompanied by
payment to the City Administrator of the prescribed fee. If, after
investigation, the City Administrator is satisfied that all requirements of law
and this code have been met, he or she shall present the application to the
Council for action, or if the license or permit does not require Council
approval, he or she shall issue the license or permit.
(Prior Code, § 501.01)
§ 110.02 FEES.
   (A)   Fee established. License fees are in the amounts established in the
governing sections of this chapter or as otherwise provided by resolution of
the City Council.
   (B)   Prorated fees. If the initial license is to run for less than a full
year, the applicant shall pay a pro rata fee, with any unexpired fraction of a
month being counted as one month.
   (C)   Refunds. License fees shall not be refunded in whole or in part unless
otherwise specified in this code or by law.
(Prior Code, § 501.02)
§ 110.03 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   Unless otherwise specified, a license shall be valid for a calendar year or
the part of the year for which it is issued and shall expire on December 31.
(Prior Code, § 501.03)
§ 110.04 TRANSFERS.
   No license issued under this code may be transferred to any other person.
Where a license relates to specific premises, the license shall not be changed
to another location without approval of the Council or other licensing
authority.
(Prior Code, § 501.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Authorized personnel. Any city official or employee having a duty to
perform with reference to a license under this code and any police officer may
inspect and examine any licensee, his or her business, or premises to enforce
compliance with applicable provisions of this code. Subject to the provision of
division (B) below, he or she may, at any reasonable time, enter any licensed
premises for which a license is required in order to enforce compliance with
this code.
   (B)   Search warrants. If the licensee objects to the inspection of his or
her premises, the city official or employee with the duty of enforcing the
provision of this code shall procure a valid search warrant before conducting
the inspection.
(Prior Code, § 501.05)
§ 110.06 DUTIES OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   Compliance required. Every licensee and permittee shall have the
duties set forth in this section.
   (B)   Compliance with law. He or she shall comply with laws, ordinances and
regulations applicable to the licensed business, activity or property.
   (C)   Display of license. He or she shall display the license or other
insignia given him or her as evidence of the license in a conspicuous place on
the premises, vehicle or device to which the license relates. If the license is
not so related, the license shall be carried on the licensee’s person whenever
he or she is carrying on the licensed activity.
   (D)   Unlawful disposition. The licensee shall not lend or give to any other
person his or her license or license insignia.
(Prior Code, § 501.06)
§ 110.07 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The Council may suspend for a period not exceeding 60 days or revoke any
license or permit for violation of any provision of law, ordinance or
regulation applicable to the licensed or permitted activity or property. Except
where mandatory revocation is provided by law without notice and hearing and
except where suspension may be made without a hearing, the holder of the
license or permit shall be granted a hearing upon at least ten days’ notice
before revocation or suspension is ordered. The notice shall state the time and
place of the hearing and the nature of the charges against the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 501.07)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Persons ineligible for license
   
111.02   Places ineligible for license
   
111.03   Conditions of license
   
111.04   Suspension and revocation
Intoxicating Liquor Licensing
   
111.15    Provision of state law adopted
   
111.16    License required
   
111.17    Application for license
   
111.18    License fees
   
111.19    Granting of licenses
   
111.20    Hours and days of sale
   
111.21    Prohibition of resale
Beer Licensing
   
111.35    Definition
   
111.36    License required
   
111.37    License applications
   
111.38    License fees
   
111.39    Granting of license
   
111.40    Hours and days of sale
   
111.41    Prohibition of resale
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No new retail license may be issued to, and in the discretion of the city,
no license shall be held by any person who:
   (A)   Is made ineligible for such a license by state law;
   (B)   Is less than 21 years of age;
   (C)   A person who has had an intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating liquor
license revoked within five years of the license application, or to any person
who at the time of the violation owns any interest, whether as a holder of more
than 5% of the capital stock of a corporation licensee, as a partner or
otherwise, in the premises or in the business conducted thereon, or to a
corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business or firm in which
any such person is in any manner interested;
   (D)   A person not of good moral character and repute;
   (E)   Is not the actual proprietor of the establishment for which the
license is issued;
   (F)   Is not a citizen or resident alien; or
   (G)   In the case of off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, anyone who
already holds or has an interest in such a license in the city as defined in
M.S. § 340A.412, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 603.01)
§ 111.02 PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   General prohibition. No license shall be issued for any place or any
business ineligible for such a license under state law, including any premises
where a licensee has been convicted of the violation of this subchapter, or of
state liquor or beer law, or where any license hereunder has been revoked for
cause, until one year has elapsed after such conviction or revocation.
   (B)   Delinquent taxes and charges. No license shall be granted for
operation on any premises on which taxes, assessments or other liquidated
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (C)   Commercial uses. No license shall be issued to premises where
restricted against commercial use by the city’s zoning ordinance.
   (D)   Off-sale licenses in beer halls prohibited. No off-sale intoxicating
liquor license may be issued to a place licensed for the sale of non-
intoxicating malt liquor on the premises unless the place also holds an on-sale
liquor or combination license.
(Prior Code, § 603.02)
§ 111.03 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   General conditions. Every license shall be granted subject to the
conditions in this section and all other provisions of this subchapter and of
any other applicable ordinance of the city or state law.
   (B)   Licensee’s responsibility. Every licensee is responsible for the
conduct of his or her place of business and the conditions of sobriety and
order in it. The act of any employee on the licensed premises authorized to
sell intoxicating liquor or beer there is deemed the act of the licensee as
well, and the licensee shall be liable to all penalties provided by this
subchapter and the law equally with the employee.
   (C)   Sales to intoxicated persons. No person may sell, give, furnish or in
any way procure for another alcoholic beverages for the use of an obviously
intoxicated person.
   (D)   Persons under age of 21; illegal acts.
      (1)   Consumption. It shall be unlawful for any:
         (a)   Retail intoxicating liquor or beer licensee to permit any person
under the age of 21 years to consume alcoholic beverages on the licensed
premises; or
         (b)   Persons under the age of 21 years to consume any alcoholic
beverages unless in the household of the person’s parent or guardian and with
the consent of the parent or guardian.
      (2)   Purchasing. It is unlawful for any person:
         (a)   To sell, barter, furnish or give alcoholic beverages to a person
under 21 years of age, except that a parent or guardian of the person under the
age of 21 may give or furnish alcoholic beverages solely for consumption in the
household of the parent or guardian;
         (b)   Under the age of 21 years to purchase or attempt to purchase any
alcoholic beverages; or
         (c)   To induce a person under the age of 21 years to purchase or
procure any alcoholic beverages, or to lend or knowingly permit the use of the
person’s driver’s license, permit, state identification card or other forms of
identification by a person under the age of 21 years for the purpose of
purchasing or attempting to purchase an alcoholic beverage.
      (3)   Possession. It is unlawful for a person under the age of 21 years
to possess any alcoholic beverages with the intent to consume it at a place
other than the household of the person’s parent or guardian. Possession at a
place other than the household of the parent or guardian is prima facie
evidence of intent to consume it at a place other than the household of the
parent or guardian.
      (4)   Entering licensed premises. It is unlawful for a person under the
age of 21 to enter an establishment licensed for the sale of alcoholic
beverages for the purpose of purchasing or having served or delivered any
alcoholic beverage. However, persons having attained the age of 18 may enter an
establishment licensed under this subchapter to perform any work for the
establishment, including the serving of alcoholic beverages, to consume meals
or to attend any social functions that are held in the portion of the
establishment where liquor is not sold.
      (5)   Misrepresentation of age. It shall be unlawful for a person under
the age of 21 years to claim to be 21 years old or older for the purposes of
purchasing alcoholic beverages.
      (6)   Proof of age. Proof of age for purchasing or consuming alcoholic
beverages may be established only by a valid driver’s license or state
identification card, or in the case of a foreign national by a valid passport.
In a prosecution under this subchapter, it is a defense for the defendant to
prove by preponderance of the evidence that the defendant reasonably and in
good faith relied upon representations of proof of age authorized above in
selling, bartering, furnishing or giving the alcoholic beverage.
   (E)   Employment of minors. Persons under the age of 18 may be employed on
premises licensed for sale of intoxicating liquor; provided such persons shall
not directly sell, dispense or otherwise handle intoxicating liquor or beer.
   (F)   Inspections. Every licensee shall allow any peace officer or any
designated official of the city to enter, inspect and search the premises of
the licensee; during business hours, for any reason related to conditions of
said licensee; and after the hours of sale, in the event the officer or
official has reasonable and probable cause to believe that persons other than
the owner or management and janitorial personnel are present in the licensed
premises during the hours prohibited by division (G) below.
   (G)   Display during prohibited hours. Intoxicating liquor or beer served to
be consumed on the premises may not be on display or consumed in a licensed
establishment after 2:15 a.m. on Tuesday through Monday. This restriction on
consumption and display shall be in addition to any other regulations contained
herein.
   (H)   Vacation of premises. No person except the licensee or janitorial or
management personnel of said licensee shall be permitted on the licensed
premises of an establishment licensed for on-sale of intoxicating liquor or
beer between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any Tuesday through
Monday. As to the employment status of persons on the premises between the
aforementioned hours, the burden shall be upon the licensee to establish that
persons on the premises are janitorial or management only.
   (I)   Food service after hours.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions to the contrary, licensees
shall be allowed to serve food and non-alcoholic beverages in areas otherwise
included on the liquor license as part of the licensed premises; provided such
area is approved by the City Council and designated on the liquor license. Such
area must be completely free of any intoxicating liquor or beer containers,
either opened or unopened, during all times after legal hours for sale of such
beverages. Also, such area must be reasonably separated from the main bar area
in which intoxicating liquor is typically sold on the licensed premises.
      (2)   Licensees shall be allowed to use any portion of the licensed
premises for service of food for Sunday brunches between the hours of 6:00 a.m.
and 12:00 noon on Sundays.
   (J)   Nudity prohibited. No liquor, wine or beer on-sale licensee shall
permit the following kinds of conduct on the licensed premises, or in areas
adjoining the licensed premises where the following kinds of conduct can be
seen by patrons of the licensed premises:
      (1)   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, flagellation or bondage;
      (2)   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling of the
breast, buttocks, anus or genitals;
      (3)   The actual or simulated displaying of the pubic hair or a pubic
region, anus, vulva or genitals;
      (4)   The displaying of films depicting any of the acts described in
divisions (J)(1) through (J)(3) above;
      (5)   The presentation of any female in such manner or attire to expose
to view any portion of the breast below the top of the areola or any simulation
thereof; or
      (6)   The presentation of any male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
   (K)   Penalty may include loss of license. A violation of this subchapter is
a misdemeanor against the licensee and any employee on the premises during any
of the above-described prohibited activity and is justification for revocation
or suspension of any liquor, wine or beer license granted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 603.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall either suspend for up to 60 days or revoke any
liquor or beer license, or impose a civil fine not to exceed $2,000, for each
violation upon a finding that the licensee has failed to comply with any
applicable statute, regulation or ordinance relating to alcoholic beverages.
Except in cases of failure of financial responsibility, no suspension or
revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded an
opportunity for a hearing pursuant to M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as they may be
amended from time to time, of the Administrative Procedure Act.
   (B)   Lapse of required dram shop insurance or withdrawal of a required
deposit of cash or securities shall affect an immediate suspension of any
license issued pursuant to this chapter without further action of the City
Council. Notice of cancellation, lapse of a current liability policy or
withdrawal of deposited cash or securities shall also constitute notice to the
licensee of the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license
who has received notice of lapse of required insurance, or withdrawal of a
required deposit, or of suspension or revocation of a license, may request a
hearing thereon and if such a request is made in writing to the City
Administrator, a hearing shall be granted within ten days or such longer period
as may be requested. Any suspension under this division (B) shall continue
until the City Council determines that the financial responsibility
requirements of this chapter have again been met.
(Prior Code, § 603.04)
INTOXICATING LIQUOR LICENSING
§ 111.15 PROVISION OF STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
otherwise referred to as the Liquor Act, relating to the definitions of terms,
licensing, consumption, sales, conditions of bonds of licensees, hours of sale
and all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution and
consumption of intoxication liquor, to the extent not specifically contradicted
by provisions herein, are adopted and made a part of this subchapter as if set
out in full.
(Prior Code, § 601.01)
§ 111.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   General requirements. No person, except a wholesaler or manufacturer
to the extent authorized under state license, shall directly or indirectly deal
in, sell or keep for sale in the city any intoxicating liquor without a license
to do so as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   On-sale licenses. On-sale licenses shall be issued only to hotels,
clubs, restaurants and exclusive liquor stores and shall permit on-sale liquor
only.
   (C)   Off-sale licenses. Off-sale licenses shall be issued only to exclusive
liquor stores and holders of on-sale licenses, and shall permit off-sales of
liquor only.
   (D)   Special club licenses. Special club licenses shall be issued only to
incorporated clubs as defined in M.S. § 340A.101, Subd. 7, as it may be amended
from time to time, which have been in existence for ten or more years to
congressionally chartered veterans’ organization which have been in existence
for three years.
   (E)   Special license for Sunday sales. A special license authorizing sales
on Sundays in conjunction with the serving of food may be issued to any hotel,
restaurant or club which has facilities for serving at least 30 persons and
which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license. A special Sunday license is
not needed for sales by wine licensees.
   (F)   Temporary on-sale licenses. Any club, charitable, religious or other
non-profit organization in existence for at least three years may apply for a
temporary license for the on-sale of intoxicating liquor in connection with a
social event within the city sponsored by that licensee. The license shall not
extend for more than four consecutive days. It may authorize on-sale on
premises other than the premises the licensee owns or permanently occupies,
such as a rental hall. The license may provide that the licensee may contract
for intoxicating liquor catering services with the holder of a full year on-
sale intoxicating liquor license issued by the municipality. All such licenses
must be first approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
(Prior Code, § 601.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.17 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license to sell liquor shall state the
name of the applicant, his or her age, representations as to his or her
character, with such references as the Council may require, his or her
citizenship, the type of license applied for, the business in connection with
which the proposed licensee will operate and its location, whether the
applicant is owner and operator of the business, how long he or she has been in
that business at that place, the nature of applicant’s interest in the place of
business, and such other information as the Council may require. In addition to
containing such information, the application shall be in the form prescribed by
the Liquor Control Director and the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension and shall
be verified and filed with the City Administrator. No person shall make a false
statement in an application.
   (B)   Liability insurance. No retail license may be issued, maintained or
renewed unless the applicant shall file with the City Administrator, which the
city must submit to the Commissioner of Public Safety, proof of financial
responsibility in such form as meets the minimum requirements under the state
statutes in effect for any period covered by the license applied for. Said
requirements are presently contained in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (C)   Approval of security. The security offered in division (B) above shall
be approved by the City Council and in the case of applicants for off-sale
licenses, by the State Liquor Control Director. Liability insurance policies
shall be approved as to form by the City Attorney. Operation of a licensed
business without having on file with the city at all times effective security
as required in division (B) above is a cause for revocation of the license and
will result in immediate suspension.
(Prior Code, § 601.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.18 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Fees. The annual fee for a liquor license shall be set forth by
Council resolution from time to time.
   (B)   Payment. Each application for a license shall be accompanied by total
payment of fees. A cashier’s check or certified check for payment in full of
the license fee is required for payment of fees in the event the total fees
exceed the amount set forth by Council resolution from time to time. If an
application for a license is rejected, the Deputy Clerk-Treasurer shall refund
the amount paid.
   (C)   Term; pro-rata fee. Each license shall be issued for a period of one
year except that if the application is made during the license year, a license
may be issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee, with any
unexpired fraction of a month being counted as one month. Every license shall
expire on December 31.
   (D)   Refunds. No refund of any fee shall be made except as authorized by
statute.
   (E)   Fee increases; notice, hearing. A public hearing shall be held prior
to any increase in the fee for a liquor license. Notice of the proposed
increase and indicating the time and date of the hearing shall be sent to all
affected licensees at least 30 days prior to the date set for hearing.
(Prior Code, § 601.04)
§ 111.19 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Investigation and issuance. The City Administrator shall on initial
application for an on-sale license or for transfer of an existing license,
conduct a preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant.
If the city or the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension wants a more comprehensive
investigation, the city may contract with the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension
for it. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or against the
granting of a license. After the investigation and hearing, the Council shall,
in its discretion, grant or refuse the application. No off-sale license shall
become effective until it, together with the security furnished by the
applicant, has been approved by the Liquor Control Director. An investigation
fee not to exceed an amount set forth by Council resolution from time to time
shall be charged an applicant if it is conducted within the state or the actual
cost not to exceed the amount set forth by Council resolution from time to
time, if required outside of the state.
   (B)   Person and premises licensed; transfer. Each license shall be issued
only to the applicant and for the premises described in the application. No
license may be transferred to another person or place without City Council
approval. Any transfer of stock of a corporate license is deemed a transfer of
the license and a transfer of 10% or more of stock without ten days’ prior
written notice to the Council is a ground for revocation of the license.
   (C)   Renewals of licenses. Applications for renewal of an existing license
shall be made at least 60 days prior to the date of the expiration of the
license, and shall be made in the same or abbreviated form as the City Council
may require. An investigation may be required prior to approval.
(Prior Code, § 601.05)
§ 111.20 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   On-sale. No sale of intoxicating liquor for consumption on the
licensed premises shall be made:
      (1)   Between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of Monday through
Saturday;
      (2)   After 2:00 a.m. on Sundays, except as provided by division (B)
below; or
      (3)   Between 8:00 p.m. on December 24 and 8:00 a.m. on December 25
except as provided by division (B) below.
   (B)   Sunday sales on-sale. A restaurant, club, bowling center or hotel
which holds a valid on-sale and Sunday liquor license may sell alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises in conjunction with the sale of food
between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on Monday; provided
that the licensee is in conformance with the Minnesota Clean Indoor Air Act,
M.S. §§ 144.411 et seq., as they may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Off-sale. No sale of intoxicating liquor may be made by an off-sale
licensee:
      (1)   The hours of operation and days of sale on Sunday shall be those
set by M.S. § 340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the
City Council may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive
hours than state law allows;
      (2)   Before 8:00 a.m. on Monday through Saturday;
      (3)   After 10:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday;
      (4)   On Thanksgiving Day;
      (5)   On Christmas Day, December 25; or
      (6)   After 8:00 p.m. on Christmas Eve, December 24.
(Prior Code, § 601.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.21 PROHIBITION OF RESALE.
   A retail licensee may not sell alcoholic beverages to any person for the
purpose of resale or to any person whom the licensee has reason to believe
intends to resell the alcoholic beverage without written approval of the
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 601.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
BEER LICENSING
§ 111.35 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEER or NON-INTOXICATING MALT LIQUOR. Any malt beverage with an alcoholic
content of more than 0.5% by volume and not more than 3.2% by weight.
(Prior Code, § 602.01)
§ 111.36 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Licenses. No person, except wholesalers and manufacturers to the
extent authorized by law, shall deal in or dispose of by gift, sale or
otherwise, or keep or offer for sale, any beer within the city without having
first received a license as hereinafter provided. A holder of an intoxicating
liquor license for that type of sale need not also obtain a beer license for
the same type of sale, either on or off the premises. Licenses shall be of
three kinds: regular on-sale, temporary on-sale and off-sale.
   (B)   Regular on-sale. Regular on-sale licenses shall be granted only to
bona fide clubs, restaurants, drug stores, hotels and bowling centers where
food is prepared and served for consumption on the premises. On-sale licenses
shall permit the sale of beer for consumption on the premises only.
   (C)   Temporary on-sale. Temporary on-sale licenses shall be granted only to
bona fide clubs, and charitable, religious and non-profit community
organizations for the sale of beer for consumption on the premises only. If an
organization is unincorporated, it must also supply proof of financial
responsibility required by M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to
time, to apply to period of license.
   (D)   Off-sale. Off-sale licenses shall permit the sale of beer at retail,
in the original package for consumption off the premises only.
(Prior Code, § 602.02)
§ 111.37 LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license to sell beer shall be made to
the City Administrator on a form supplied by the city and containing such
information as the City Administrator or the City Council may require. It shall
be unlawful to make any false statement in an application. Every application
for the issuance or renewal of a license shall include a copy of each summons
received by the applicant under M.S. § 340A.802, as it may be amended from time
to time, during the preceding year.
   (B)   Proof of financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of a beer
license, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of minimum financial
responsibility as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, Subd. 1, as it may be amended
from time to time, with reference to liability under the M.S. § 340A.801, as
amended from time to time. Such proof shall be filed with the Commissioner of
Public Safety, except that if a license involves sales of beer of a prospective
vendor who is not required by law to file such proof with the Commissioner of
Public Safety, such proof shall be filed with the City Administrator. Any
liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial responsibility under
this division (B) shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   (C)   Approval of security. Liability insurance policies required by this
subchapter, but not by state law, shall be approved as to form by the City
Attorney. Operation of a business licensed by this subchapter without having on
file with the State Insurance Commissioner or the city at all times effective
security as required in division (B) above is a cause for revocation or
suspension of the license.
(Prior Code, § 602.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.38 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Fees. The annual fee for licenses shall be as set forth by Council
resolution from time to time.
   (B)   Payment required. Each application for a license shall be accompanied
by a receipt from the City Administrator for payment in full of the required
fee for the license. All fees shall be paid into the general fund of the city.
Upon rejection of any application for a license, the City Administrator shall
refund the amount paid.
   (C)   Expiration; pro rata fees. Every license except a temporary license
shall on December 31 in each year. Each license except a temporary license
shall be issued for a period of one year, except that if a portion of the
license year has elapsed when the license is granted, the license shall be
issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rate fee. In computing such fee,
any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one month. A temporary
license shall be issued for a specific period in which a special event to which
the sale is incident is being held and such period shall be stated on the
license.
(Prior Code, § 602.04)
§ 111.39 GRANTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Investigation and hearing. The City Administrator shall investigate
all facts set out in the application. Opportunity shall be given to any person
to be heard for or against the granting of a license. After such investigation
and hearing, the Council shall grant or refuse the application in its
discretion.
   (B)   Transfers. Each license shall be issued to the applicant only and
shall not be transferable to another holder. Each license shall be issued only
for the premises described in the application. No license may be transferred to
another place without the approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 602.05)
§ 111.40 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   On-sale. No sale of non-intoxicating liquor for consumption on the
licensed premises shall be made:
      (1)   Between 2:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sunday; or
      (2)   Between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Monday through Saturday.
   (B)   Off-sale. No sale of non-intoxicating liquor may be made by an off-
sale licensee:
      (1)   The hours of operation and days of sale on Sunday shall be those
set by M.S. § 340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the
City Council may, be resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive
hours than state law allows;
      (2)   Before 8:00 a.m. on Monday through Saturday;
      (3)   After 10:00 p.m. Monday through Sunday; or
      (4)   After 8:00 p.m. on Christmas Eve, December 24.
(Prior Code, § 602.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.41 PROHIBITION OF RESALE.
   A retail licensee may not sell alcoholic beverages to any person for the
purpose of resale or to any person whom the licensee has reason to believe
intends to resell the alcoholic beverage without written approval of the
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 602.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   General provisions
   
112.04   License required
   
112.05   Application and issuance
   
112.06   License fee
   
112.07   Duration of license
   
112.08   License
   
112.09   Practices prohibited
   
112.10   Exemptions
   
112.11   Revocation
   
112.12   Renewal/extension of licenses
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   The City Council recognizes that the uncontrolled activities of persons,
firms or corporations engaged in the practice of going in and upon private
residence in the city, not having been requested or invited to do so by the
owner or owners, occupant or occupants of the private residences, for the
purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, or
for the purpose of disposing of or peddling the same is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 509.01)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person with no fixed place of business who goes from house to
house, from place to place or from street to street, carrying or transporting
goods, wares or merchandise and offering or exposing the same for sale, or
making sales and deliveries to purchasers of the same.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who goes from house to house, from place to place or
from street to street soliciting or taking or attempting to take orders for any
goods, wares or merchandise, including books, periodicals, magazines or
personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person, firm or corporation who engages temporarily
in the business of selling and delivering goods, wares or merchandise within
the city and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or
occupies any building, structure, vacant lot, motor vehicle, trailer or
railroad car.
(Prior Code, § 509.02)
§ 112.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Any resident of the city who wishes to exclude peddlers or solicitors from
premises occupied by him or her may place upon or near the usual entrance to
such premises a printed placard or sign bearing the following notice: “Peddlers
and Solicitors Prohibited”. Such placard shall be at least three and three-
fourth inches long and three and three-fourth inches wide and the printing
thereon shall not be smaller than 48-point type. No peddler or solicitor shall
enter in or upon any premises or attempt to enter in or upon any premises,
where such placard or sign is placed and maintained. No person other than the
person occupying such premises shall remove, injure or deface such placard or
sign.
(Prior Code, § 509.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall sell or offer for sale any
goods, wares or merchandise within the city unless a license therefore shall
first be secured as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 509.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Application for such license shall be made to the City Administrator’s
office on a form supplied by the city.
   (B)   Every application shall bear the written approval of the Chief of
Police after an investigation of the moral character and criminal history of
the applicant. The completed application shall be presented to the City Council
for its consideration and if granted, a license shall be issued by the
Administrator’s office.
(Prior Code, § 509.05)
§ 112.06 LICENSE FEE.
   The applicant, upon filing of this application, shall pay a fee to the City
Administrator’s office for deposit with the City Administrator to be credited
to the general revenue fund of the city. Such fee shall be determined by the
City Council and set in the fee schedule. All fees are non-refundable.
(Prior Code, § 509.06)
§ 112.07 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   Each license shall be valid only for the period specified therein and no
license may extend beyond December 31 of the year in which it is granted.
(Prior Code, § 509.07)
§ 112.08 LICENSE.
   All licenses shall be non-transferable. No refunds shall be made on unused
portions of license except by resolution of the City Council. All licenses
shall be carried by licensee or conspicuously posted in his or her place of
business and the license shall be exhibited to any officer or citizen upon
request.
(Prior Code, § 509.08)
§ 112.09 PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall call attention to his or her business or to his or her
merchandise, by crying out, by blowing a horn, by ringing a bell or by any loud
or unusual noise.
(Prior Code, § 509.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter does not apply to sale under court order, to any bona
fide auction sale, to a sale at wholesale to a retail dealer or to any sale
requiring a state dealer’s license.
   (B)   No license shall be required for any persons to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated or raised on any farm or garden occupied and cultivated by
themselves.
   (C)   No license shall be required of any person who has an established
place of business where the goods being sold are offered for sale on a regular
basis, and in which the buyer has initiated contact with, and specifically
requested a home visit and or delivery by said person.
   (D)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-house,
door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street or other type of place-to-
place when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that person’s state or
federal constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, press, religion
and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the person’s exercise
of constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial activity.
   (E)   No license shall be required for children participating in fundraising
for any public school, private school, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, 4-H, FFA and
organizations associated therewith located within the county.
   (F)   No license shall be required for venders at city-sponsored events.
   (G)   Professional fundraisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 509.10)
§ 112.11 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked by the City Council for a violation of any
provision of this chapter, if the licensee has been given a reasonable notice
and an opportunity to be heard.
   (B)   No licensee whose permit has been revoked shall make further
application until at least six months have elapsed since the last previous
revocation.
(Prior Code, § 509.11)
§ 112.12 RENEWAL/EXTENSION OF LICENSES.
   Transient merchant licenses may be renewed for a period of seven days,
peddler licenses may be renewed for a period of 30 days and canvasser/solicitor
licenses may be renewed for a period of 30 days as follows.
   (A)   The individual to whom the license was issued shall apply for an
extension by completing a renewal form at the City Administrator’s office,
paying a fee as set forth by Council resolution from time to time, and having
the renewal form approved and signed by the Chief of Police. The renewal form
may be denied if any complaints were received regarding the behavior of the
person(s) licensed by the city under this chapter while conducting business in
the city. The Chief’s denial for renewal can be appealed to the City Council.
   (B)   There is no limit on the number of times a license may be renewed
within the same calendar year; however, an application for renewal may not be
submitted until five days prior to the expiration of the existing license. The
renewal form shall serve as proof that the license has been renewed for the
dates stated on the form. However, no license may be renewed beyond December 31
of the year in which the license was issued. After December 31, the individual
must make application for a new license and go through an investigation by the
Police Department with final approval or denial to be made by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 509.13)
CHAPTER 113: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Issuance of license
   
113.04   Inspection
   
113.05   Expiration of license
   
113.06   Regulation of sexually-oriented businesses
   
113.07   Suspension/revocation
   
113.08   Transfer of license
Cross-reference:
   Sexually-oriented businesses location regulation, see §
152.246
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated, slug-operated or for any form of consideration, or
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture
machines, projectors, video or laser disc players, or other image-producing
devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at
any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as one of its principal purposes,
offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations which are characterized by the depiction
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designated for
use in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas and still be categorized as, ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or
ADULT VIDEO STORE. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
commercial establishments from being categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT
NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials which are characterized by the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a commercial establishment which
offers for sale or rental any of the items listed under ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT
NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE will not be considered to have as one of its
principal business purposes the offering for sale or rental for consideration
the specified materials which are characterized by the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; provided all of
the following conditions are met:
         (a)   Total gross revenues from the sale or rental of items listed
under ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE does not exceed
10% of the commercial establishment’s gross revenue;
         (b)   Total gross square footage of display space and stock area
devoted to the sale or rental of items listed under ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT
NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE does not exceed 10% of the commercial
establishment’s total square footage;
         (c)   Display of items listed under ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY
STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE is in a separate room or area restricted only to
persons 18 years old or older and is closely monitored by management and/or
employees of the commercial establishment to ensure that no individual under
the age of 18 enters the room or area where the items listed above are
displayed or stored;
         (d)   No electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still
or motion picture machines, projectors, video or laser disc players, or other
image-producing devices are maintained on the premises of the establishment to
show images of items listed under ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT
VIDEO STORE to any customers of the commercial establishment; and
         (e)   Only employees or management of the commercial establishment who
are 18 years old or older are permitted to enter the area where the items
listed under ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE are
stored, processed or displayed for customers or potential customers of the
commercial establishment.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, and has a sign visible from the public right-of-way
which advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or semi-nudity, or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually-oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually-
oriented business, to any sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually-oriented business to any other
existing sexually- oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually-oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually-oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity or who displays specified anatomical areas and is provided to
be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. NUDE
MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the state or a
college, junior college or university supported entirely or in part by public
taxation; a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a
structure:
      (1)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing;
      (2)   Where in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the premises
at any one time.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human genitals, pubic area,
vulva, anus with less than a fully opaque covering or the showing of the
covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   SEMI-NUDE or SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or the
showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast, exhibited by a dress,
blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit or other wearing apparel provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex, or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio or sexual encounter
center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
area, vulva or anus.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any unlawful lewd, indecent or immoral conduct,
including specifically, but without limitation, any of the lewd, indecent or
immoral criminal acts specified in any of the following statutes:
      (1)   M.S. §§ 609.293 to 609.365, as they may be amended from time to
time;
      (2)   M.S. §§ 617.23 to 617.296, as they may be amended from time to
time; or
      (3)   M.S. Ch. 152.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region
or anus;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (4)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence;
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in this definition; or
      (6)   Bestiality.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT. The increase in floor areas occupied by the
business by more than 25%, as the floor areas exist on the date this chapter
takes effect.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL. Any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Prior Code, § 508.01) (Ord. 01-09, passed 12-11-2013)
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a sexually-oriented business
without a valid sexually-oriented business license issued by the city pursuant
to this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
city.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as to enable the city to determine whether
the applicant meets the qualifications established in this chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is an
individual, the person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 20% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under the following section and each applicant shall be considered a
licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   The completed application for a sexually-oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit proof the he or she is 18 years of age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and capacity
of all officers, directors and principal stockholders, and the name of the
registered corporate agent, and the address of the registered office for
service of process; and
         (d)   The name of the owner of the property where to be located; if a
corporation, then the names of the principal owners of corporation.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually-oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must state:
         (a)   The sexually-oriented business’ fictitious name; and
         (b)   Submit the required registration documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity as defined in this chapter,
and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place and
jurisdiction of each conviction;
      (4)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
had a previous license under this chapter or other similar sexually-oriented
business ordinances from another city or county denied, suspended or revoked,
including the name and location of the sexually-oriented business for which the
permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial,
suspension or revocation, and whether the applicant or a person residing with
the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director or
principal stockholder of a corporation that is licensed under this chapter
whose license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the
name and location of the sexually-oriented business for which the permit was
denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial suspension or
revocation;
      (5)   Whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant holds
any other licenses under this chapter or other similar sexually-oriented
business ordinance from another city or county and, if so, the names and
locations of such other licensed businesses;
      (6)   The location of the proposed sexually-oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address and telephone, if any;
      (7)   The applicant’s mailing address and residential address;
      (8)   The applicant’s driver’s license number, Social Security number
and/or his or her state or federally issued tax identification number;
      (9)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches;
      (10)   A straight-line drawing prepared within 30 days prior to
application depicting the property lines and the structures containing any
existing sexually-oriented businesses within 1,000 feet of the property to be
licensed; the property lines of and established religious institution/
synagogue, school or public park or recreation area within 500 feet of the
property to be licensed. For purposes of this section, a use shall be
considered existing or established if it is in existence at the time an
application is submitted. The drawing shall be reviewed by the Building
Inspector for accuracy. In the event of a dispute between the applicant and the
city as to the accuracy of the drawing, the Building Inspector may order the
applicant to provide a drawing with the information required under this
division (E)(10) prepared by a registered land surveyor; and
      (11)   Copy of lease and all financing documents, all business-related
contracts for supply of materials and consulting management.
(Prior Code, § 508.02) (Ord. 01-09, passed 12-11-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of the application for a sexually-oriented business
license, the application shall be referred to the appropriate city departments
for an investigation to be made on the information as is contained in the
application. The application process shall be completed within 60 days from the
date the completed application is filed. After the investigation, the city
shall issue a license, unless it is determined by a preponderance of the
evidence that one or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant or a person with whom applicant is residing is overdue
in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against or
imposed upon him or her in relation to any business;
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
      (4)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been denied a license by the city to operate a sexually-oriented business
within the preceding 12 months or whose license to operate a sexually-oriented
business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
      (5)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity defined in this chapter;
      (6)   The premises to be used for the sexually-oriented business have not
been approved by the Health Department, Fire Department and the Building
Official as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
      (7)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid; and
      (8)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of
the sexually-oriented business and the classification for which the license is
issued pursuant to §
152.246. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually-oriented business so that they may be easily read at
any time.
   (C)   The Health Department, Fire Department and the Building Official shall
complete their certification that the premises are in compliance or not in
compliance within 20 days of receipt of the application by the city.
   (D)   Every application for a sexually-oriented business license (whether
for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied
by a non-refundable application and investigation fee in an amount as set forth
by Council resolution from time to time.
   (E)   In addition to the application and investigation fee required above,
every sexually-oriented business that is granted a license (new or renewal)
shall pay to the city an annual non-refundable license fee in an amount as set
forth by Council resolution from time to time within 30 days of license
issuance or renewal.
   (F)   All license applications and fees shall be submitted to the City
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 508.03) (Ord. 01-09, passed 12-11-2013)
§ 113.04 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or license shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, County Health Department, Fire Department, Zoning Department or
other city departments or agencies to inspect the premises of a sexually-
oriented business for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law at any
time it is occupied or open for business.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually-oriented business or his or her agent
or employee commits a violation of this chapter if he or she refuses to permit
such lawful inspection of the premises at any time it is open for business.
(Prior Code, § 508.04) (Ord. 01-09, passed 12-11-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.05 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided herein. Application for
renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the expiration date.
   (B)   When the city denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Prior Code, § 508.05) (Ord. 01-09, passed 12-11-2013)
§ 113.06 REGULATION OF SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   All licensed sexually-oriented businesses shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter, all other applicable city ordinances and all other
applicable federal, state and local laws.
   (B)   No sexually-oriented business shall be maintained or operated in any
manner that causes, creates or allows public viewing of any adult material or
any entertainment depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, from any sidewalk, public or private
right-of-way, or any property other than the lot on which the licensed premises
is located. No portion of the exterior of a sexually-oriented business shall
utilize or contain any flashing lights, search lights or spotlights, or any
other similar lighting systems, or any words, lettering, photographs,
silhouettes, drawings or pictorial representations of any manner except to the
extent specifically allowed herein. This division (B) shall apply to any
advertisement, display, promotional material, decoration or sign; to any
performance or show; and to any window, door or other opening.
   (C)   All signs for sexually-oriented businesses shall be flat wall signs.
The maximum allowable sign area shall be one square foot of sign area per foot
of lot frontage on a street, but in no event exceeding 32 square feet. The
maximum number of signs shall be one per lot frontage. Signs otherwise
permitted pursuant to this chapter shall contain only:
      (1)   The name of the sexually-oriented business; and/or
      (2)   The specific type of sexually-oriented business conducted on the
licensed premises. Temporary signage shall not be permitted in connection with
any sexually-oriented business.
   (D)   No sexually-oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain
open at any time between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays. There shall be no Sunday opening.
   (E)   A person commits a violation of this chapter if the person knowingly
allows a person under the age of 18 years on the premises of a sexually-
oriented business.
(Prior Code, § 508.06) (Ord. 01-09, passed 12-11-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.07 SUSPENSION/REVOCATION.
   (A)   The city shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days if
it determines that a license or an employee of a license has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
or
      (2)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually-oriented business as
authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   The city shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension occurs and
the license has been suspended within the preceding 12 months.
   (C)   The city shall revoke a license if it determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually-oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   Except in the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or
other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city, county or state
for any taxes or fees past due.
   (D)   When the city revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one
year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually-oriented business license
for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If, subsequent to
revocation, the city finds that the basis for the revocation has been corrected
or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90 days have
elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
   (E)   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such administrative action in any
court of competent jurisdiction. The administrative action shall be promptly
reviewed by the court.
(Prior Code, § 508.07) (Ord. 01-09, passed 12-11-2013)
§ 113.08 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually-oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Prior Code, § 508.08) (Ord. 01-09, passed 12-11-2013)
CHAPTER 114: MOBILE FOOD UNITS
Section
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   License applications
   
114.04   Conditions of licensing
   
114.05   Suspension or revocation of a license
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is designed to permit the reasonable use of mobile food units
while preventing any adverse consequences to residents, businesses, and public
property. The purpose of article recognizes the unique physical and operational
characteristics of mobile food vending, and establishes licensing requirements
and standards for the typical range of activities, and mitigates or prohibits
practices that are contrary to the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-11-2025)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ICE CREAM VENDOR. A motor vehicle utilized as the point of retail sales of
pre-wrapped or prepackaged ice cream, frozen yogurt, frozen custard, flavored
frozen water or similar frozen dessert products.
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT. A self-contained food service operation, located in a
readily movable motorized wheeled or towed vehicle that is readily movable
without disassembling and that is used to store, prepare, display, or serve
food intended for individual portion service; or a MOBILE FOOD UNIT as defined
in M.S. § 157.15, Subd. 9, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-11-2025)
§ 114.03 LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Type of license. An annual license allows mobile food unit operations
within the city limits throughout the year. A licensee will only be issued one
license per calendar year.
   (B)   License fees. Fee for annual license is determined in the city’s fee
schedule.
   (C)   Mobile food unit. It is unlawful for any person to operate a mobile
food unit in the city without first obtaining a license from the city. An
application for a license shall be filed, along with the required fee, with the
City Clerk. The applicant must be the owner of the mobile food unit. The
application shall be made on a form supplied by the city and shall contain
information requested by the city, including the following:
      (1)   Name of the owner and operator, if different than owner, of the
mobile food unit and permanent and temporary home and business address;
      (2)   The applicant’s full legal name, date of birth, and driver’s
license number;
      (3)   A description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold and the license plate number and description for any vehicle to be used in
conjunction with the activity;
      (4)   The permanent and any temporary home and business address, phone
numbers, and email address of the applicant, with a designation of a preferred
mailing address for notices related to the license;
      (5)   The name, address, and contact information for the commissary with
which the mobile food unit is affiliated, if applicable;
      (6)   A certificate of insurance by an insurance company authorized to do
business in the state, evidencing the following forms of insurance:
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance, with a limit of not less
than $1,000,000 each occurrence. If the insurance contains an annual aggregate
limit, the annual aggregate limit shall be not less than $2,000,000.
         (b)   Automobile liability insurance with a limit of not less than
$2,000,000 combined single limit. The insurance shall cover liability arising
out of any auto, including owned, hired, and non-owned vehicles;
         (c)   Food products liability insurance, with a limit of not less than
$1,000,000 each occurrence;
         (d)   Public liability insurance, with a limit of not less than
$1,000,000 each occurrence;
         (e)   Property damage insurance, with a limit of not less than
$1,000,000 each occurrence;
         (f)   Worker’s compensation insurance (statutory limits) or evidence
of exemption from state law; and
         (g)   The city shall be endorsed as an additional insured on the
certificate of insurance and the umbrella/excess insurance if the applicant
intends to operate its mobile food unit on public property, including public
right-of-way.
      (7)   The certificate of insurance must contain a provision requiring
notification be sent to the city should the policy be cancelled before its
state expiration date;
      (8)   Written consent of each private property owner from which mobile
food unit sales will be conducted;
      (9)   If the mobile food unit will be located on city property or public
right-of-way, a signed statement that the licensee shall hold harmless the city
and its officers and employees, and shall indemnify the city and its officers
and employees for any claims for damage to property or injury to persons which
may be occasioned by any activity earned on under the terms of the license;
      (10)   The applicant must provide the dates and locations for its mobile
food unit operations;
      (11)   A copy of each related license or permit issued by the county and
the state required to operate a mobile food unit; and
      (12)   A copy of the applicant’s state sales tax ID number.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-11-2025)
§ 114.04 CONDITIONS OF LICENSING.
   A mobile food unit may only operate as set forth in the following.
   (A)   Locations. A mobile food unit may only operate in the locations set
forth in this division (A). A mobile food unit may operate in a private
commercial or industrial parking lot and on private residential property, with
the written consent of the private property owner. When operations occur on
private residential property, mobile food unit sales may only be for catering
purposes (such as a private graduation party or wedding) and not open for sales
to the general public. A mobile food unit may only operate along a public or
private street when the street is closed to all nonemergency vehicles. A mobile
food unit may only operate in a city park or on city property with the prior
written approval by the city; additional permits may be required for such
operations.
   (B)   Performance standards. A mobile food unit licensee is subject to the
following performance standards:
      (1)   A mobile food unit with an annual license may not operate on the
same property more than 21 days during any calendar year;
      (2)   Applicable license fee shall be paid;
      (3)   Shall operate in strict compliance with the laws, rules, and
regulations of the United States, the state, the county, and the city;
      (4)   A mobile food unit must dispose of its gray water daily. Gray water
may not be drained into city stormwater drains;
      (5)   Shall provide and maintain at least one clearly designated waste
container for customer use per each mobile food cart or mobile food vehicle;
      (6)   Operator is responsible for daily removal of trash, litter,
recycling and refuse. Public trash cans shall not be used to dispose of water
generated by the operation. The operator shall provide a garbage receptacle
with a tight-fitting lid. The receptacle shall be easily accessible for
customer use, and located within five feet of the unit;
      (7)   A mobile food unit must provide an independent power supply that is
screened from public view and that complies with city’s noise regulations;
      (8)   Trucks can operate between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. and must not
create any unnecessary noise disturbances or disrupt public traffic or safety
in any way. An exemption to hours may be authorized by City Council on a per
event basis;
      (9)   A mobile food unit may have a maximum bumper to bumper length of no
more than 40 feet;
      (10)   Operators must clean around their unit at the end of each day and
units must be kept in good repair and have a neat appearance;
      (11)   Proof of Department of Health and/or Department of Agriculture
licensing must be provided and posted on unit;
      (12)   A mobile food unit must comply with the Fire Department
requirement;
      (13)   An out of service mobile food unit stored within the city must
comply with all applicable zoning ordinance requirements;
      (14)   Mobile food units may operate on private property in any
residential zoned districts for a “one-time” event for catering purposes only;
      (15)   Mobile food units cannot locate within 300 feet from the perimeter
of any pre-approved festival, sporting event, or civic event unless a license
is issued to be part of the festival or event;
      (16)   Mobile food units may not operate within 100 feet from the public
entrance to any restaurant and/or any portion of a restaurant’s outdoor dining
area during that restaurant’s hours of operation unless the licensee obtains
permission from restaurant owner/manager; and
      (17)   Mobile food units may not operate in city-owned parking lots,
except those parking lots adjacent to or inside a city park with the approval
of a special event permit, expect for events hosted by the city’s community
center.
   (C)   License. A mobile food unit license is non-transferable. Proof of
license shall be displayed at all times in the mobile food unit. Mobile food
unit operations may not occur in January, February, March, November, and
December. A mobile food unit license is an annual license.
   (D)   Practices prohibited. It is unlawful for any person engaged in the
business of a mobile food unit operation to do the following:
      (1)   Call attention to that licensee’s business by crying out, blowing a
horn, ringing a bell, loud music, or by any loud or unusual noise, or by use of
any amplifying device;
      (2)   Fail to display proof of license and produce valid identification
when requested;
      (3)   Cannot be left unattended nor remain at an authorized location
outside allowed hours of operation;
      (4)   May not operate or travel in or on public sidewalks or trails;
      (5)   Remain on the property of another when asked to leave;
      (6)   Obstruct the ingress or egress from commercial buildings during the
building hours of operation;
      (7)   Claim endorsements by the city based on license; or
      (8)   Conduct business in any manner as to create a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of a specific individual or the general public.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-11-2025)
§ 114.05 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF A LICENSE.
   A license issued pursuant to this section may be suspended by a city
official if the licensee has violated §
114.04, or is otherwise conducting business in a manner as to constitute a
breach of peace, fraudulent conduct, or any other conduct that is prohibited by
local, state, or federal laws or regulations. Falsification of information
required for a license is also grounds for denial, suspension, or revocation of
a license. The license shall be automatically revoked if the licensee does not
file an appeal pursuant to this section. When taking action on any license
issued under this section, the city official shall provide the licensee with
verbal or written notice of the violation. The notice shall inform the licensee
of its right to be heard before the City Council. The notice shall also inform
the licensee that the license shall be automatically revoked if no appeal is
filed within 21 days of the date of the notice by the city official. Verbal
notice shall be confirmed within five days by a mailed written notice to the
licensee. The Council shall not conduct a hearing on a suspension or revocation
unless a request is made by the next available Council meeting. No Council
resolution or other notice calling for a hearing shall be required.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-11-2025)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Public liquor consumption
   
130.02   Trespassing
   
130.03   Curfew
   
130.04   Weapons
§ 130.01 PUBLIC LIQUOR CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall consume an alcoholic beverage or have in their possession an
open container of an alcoholic beverage while on any public street, alley,
sidewalk, boulevard, city parking area or while on private property without the
permission of the owner or persons legally entitled to possession of such
property. Such consumption or possession of an alcoholic beverage shall also be
prohibited in any city park property, including the parking area of any park,
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 802.01) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 130.02 TRESPASSING.
   Whoever intentionally does any of the following is considered to be
trespassing and is guilty of a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Enters upon the premises of another without claim or right or without
permission of the owner, tenant or person in lawful possession of the premises;
   (B)   Enters upon the premises of another with intent to take or injure any
tree, shrub, planting or vegetables growing thereon without the consent or
permission of the owner or person in lawful possession of said premises; or
   (C)   Tampers with, enters into or gets upon a motor vehicle, or who rides
in or upon such motor vehicle knowing that it was taken and is being driven by
another without the permission of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 803.01) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 130.03 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or Fire Department
personnel and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Police Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter and other basic necessities to the minor. The
person providing PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY to the minor shall not be
another minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places or public buildings; nor in or upon places
of amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot,
between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places or public buildings; nor in or upon places
of amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot,
between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official
city time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession or occupation and the minor’s
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work;
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor’s
parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor;
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew;
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly or freedom of religion;
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city’s designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s presence; or
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian or
other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless one of the
exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city’s designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 WEAPONS.
   Other that those individuals licensed within the city under a permit subject
to the restrictions imposed by law, no person except a police officer in the
performance of duty shall, within the city, discharge any gun, pistol or
firearm of any description or carry any such weapon unless it is unloaded and
broken apart or carried in a case in a manner that it cannot be discharged.
Penalty, see §
10.99 
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
152.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Purpose
   
150.02   State Building Code adopted
   
150.03   Definitions, administrative and enforcement provisions
   
150.04   Permit required
   
150.05   Fees
   
150.06   Board of Appeals
   
150.07   Right of entry
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards to safeguard
life or limb, health, property and the public welfare by regulating and
controlling the design, construction, quality of materials, use and occupancy,
location and maintenance of all buildings and structures within the city. This
subchapter shall not be interpreted to create any particular class or group of
persons who will or should be specifically protected or benefited by the terms
of this subchapter, and is not intended to create any private duty to any
individual permit applicant or holder or otherwise guarantee the safety or
integrity of any structure or work by an individual or contractors.
(Prior Code, § 505.01)
§ 150.02 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The city has adopted the State Building Code, pursuant to M.S. §§ 326B.101
through 326B.194, as they may be amended from time to time, which shall be the
Building Code for all areas within the city limits. The State Building Code is
hereby incorporated in this section as if fully set out herein. One copy of the
Building Code shall be marked as an official copy and shall be kept on file in
the office of the City Administrator for examination and use by the public.
(Prior Code, § 505.02)
§ 150.03 DEFINITIONS, ADMINISTRATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   The State Building Code includes the following chapters of the Minn. Rules:
   (A)   Chapter 1300: Minnesota Building Code Administration;
   (B)   Chapter 1301: Building Official Certification;
   (C)   Chapter 1302: State Building Code Construction Approvals;
   (D)   Chapter 1305: Minnesota Building Code;
   (E)   Chapter 1307: Elevators and Related Devices;
   (F)   Chapter 1315: Minnesota Electrical Code;
   (G)   Chapter 1325: Solar Energy Systems;
   (H)   Chapter 1335: Floodproofing Regulations;
   (I)   Chapter 1346: Minnesota Mechanical Code;
   (J)   Chapter 1350: Manufactured Homes;
   (K)   Chapter 1360: Prefabricated Structures;
   (L)   Chapter 1361: Industrialized/Modular Buildings;
   (M)   Chapter 1370: Storm Shelters (Manufactured Home Parks);
   (N)   Chapter 4714: Minnesota Plumbing Code; and
   (O)   Chapters 1322 and 1323: Minnesota Energy Codes.
(Prior Code, § 505.03)
§ 150.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise exempted under the State Building Code, no person or
organization shall construct, alter, move, demolish or repair any building or
structure within the city without first obtaining a permit therefor from the
city’s Building Official. All applications shall be made at the office of the
City Administrator and shall be submitted with the entire fee in advance. No
permit shall issue until all delinquent charges due to the city have been paid
in full including, but not limited to, taxes and special assessments, water and
sewer charges, nuisance abatement charges and charges for current services that
have not yet been converted to special assessments. All other provisions for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees shall be pursuant to the
provisions of the State Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 505.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.05 FEES.
   Permit fees for inspections governed by the State Building Code shall be as
set forth by Council resolution from time to time. In addition, a surcharge fee
shall be collected on all permits issued for work governed by this chapter in
accordance with M.S. § 326B.148, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 505.05)
Cross-reference:
   State Building Code, see §
150.03
§ 150.06 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   In the event of any dispute over decisions or determinations made by the
Building Official relative to the application and interpretation of the State
Building Code in the city, there is hereby created a Board of Appeals which
shall be appointed by the City Council with the Building Official as an ex
officio member who shall act as secretary to the Board but shall have no vote
on any matter before the Board. In the event of such an appeal, the Board of
Appeals shall conduct a hearing and shall render all decisions and findings in
writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the Building Official and to
the State Building Official within 15 days of the decision.
(Prior Code, § 505.06)
§ 150.07 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   When it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter, or when the Building Official has reasonable cause to believe that
there exists in a building or upon a premises a condition which is contrary to
or in violation of this subchapter which makes the building or premise unsafe,
dangerous or hazardous, the Building Official may enter the building or
premises at reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed by
this subchapter; provided that if such building or premises be occupied that
credentials be presented to the occupant and entry requested. If such building
or premises be unoccupied, the Building Official shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the
building or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the Building
Official shall have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure entry.
(Prior Code, § 505.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Policy
   
151.002   Purposes
   
151.003   Jurisdiction
   
151.004   Enactment
   
151.005   Interpretation, conflict and separability
   
151.006   Saving provision
   
151.007   Reservations and appeals
   
151.008   Amendments
   
151.009   Conditions
   
151.010   Resubdivision of land
   
151.011   Variances
   
151.012   Enforcement and violations
   
151.013   Definitions
   
151.014   Improvements, payment and performance bonds
   
151.015   Fees
Submission of Plats
   
151.030   Preliminary plat
   
151.031   Public hearing on preliminary plat
   
151.032   Approval of preliminary plat
   
151.033   Final plat
   
151.034   Review of final plat
   
151.035   Council action; final plat
   
151.036   Recording final plat
   
151.037   Denial of plan and/or plat
Applications and Plats
   
151.050   Application for preliminary plat
   
151.051   Application for final plat
   
151.052   Format
   
151.053   Form of plats
   
151.054   Conveyance of unplatted land or portion of platted lot
Design Standards
   
151.065   General
   
151.066   Street design
   
151.067   Sidewalk design
   
151.068   Intersections
   
151.069   Utility easements
   
151.070   Blocks
   
151.071   Lots
   
151.072   Parks, playgrounds, recreation areas and school facilities
Required Improvements
   
151.085   General
   
151.086   Monuments
   
151.087   Public improvements
   
151.088   Streets
   
151.089   Sidewalks
   
151.090   Service lines
   
151.091   Water
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 POLICY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to consider the
subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided plat as
subject to the control of the city pursuant to the official Comprehensive Plan
of the city for the orderly, planned, efficient and economical development of
the city.
   (B)   Land to be subdivided shall be of a character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire, flood
or other menace.
   (C)   The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be
properly related to the proposals shown in the Comprehensive Plan and the
capital budget and program of the city, and it is intended that enforcement of
this chapter shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement of the provisions
and standards contained in building codes, city code zoning provisions, land
use plan and capital budget of the city.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.002 PURPOSES.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth the minimum requirements deemed necessary to
ensure and protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
   (B)   More specifically, the provisions of this chapter are designed to:
      (1)   Assure that all lands will be developed for the best possible use
with adequate protection against deterioration and obsolescence;
      (2)   Assure that effective protection is given to the natural resources
of the community, especially ground water and surface water areas;
      (3)   Encourage well planned subdivisions through establishment of
adequate design standards;
      (4)   Discourage developments that might adversely affect the local tax
base;
      (5)   Create neighborhoods which will be of lasting credit to the
community;
      (6)   Facilitate adequate provisions for transportation and other public
facilities;
      (7)   Secure the rights of the public with respect to public lands and
waters;
      (8)   Improve land records by the establishment of standards for surveys
and plats;
      (9)   Safeguard the interests of the public, the homeowner, the
subdivides and units of local government;
      (10)   Provide a common ground for understanding between developers and
local units of government; and
      (11)   Prevent excessive governmental operating and maintenance costs.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.003 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all subdivisions of land, as defined
herein, located within the corporate limits of the city and the unincorporated
land within two miles of its corporate limits.
   (B)   No land shall be subdivided until:
      (1)   The subdivider or his or her agent shall submit a general
development plan of the parcel to the Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (2)   Obtain approval of the general development plan and preliminary and
final approval of the plat itself by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
Council; and
      (3)   The approved plat is filed with the County Recorder.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.004 ENACTMENT.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to M.S. § 462.355, Subd. 3, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.005 INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT AND SEPARABILITY.
   (A)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Conflict with public and private provisions.
      (1)   Public provisions. The regulations are not intended to interfere
with, abrogate or annul any other city code provision, rule or regulation,
statute or other provision of law. Where any provision of this chapter imposes
restrictions different from those imposed by any other provision of this
chapter or any other city code provision, rule or regulation, or other
provision of laws, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher
standards shall control.
      (2)   Private provisions. This chapter is not intended to abrogate any
casement, covenant or any other private agreement or restriction; provided
that, where the provisions of this chapter is more restrictive or impose higher
standards or regulations than the easement, covenant or other private agreement
or restriction, the requirements of these regulations shall govern. Where the
provisions of the easement, covenant or private agreement or restriction impose
duties and obligations more restrictive, or higher standards than the
requirements of this chapter, or the determinations of the Planning and Zoning
Commission or the Council in approving a subdivision or in enforcing this
chapter, and the private provisions are not inconsistent with this chapter or
determinations thereunder, then the private provisions shall be operative and
supplemental to this chapter and determinations made thereunder.
   (C)   Separability. If any part or provision of this chapter or application
thereof to any person or circumstances is adjudged invalid by any court of
competent jurisdiction, the judgment shall have been rendered and shall not
affect or impair the validity of the remainder of this chapter or the
application thereof to other persons or circumstances. The Planning and Zoning
Commission hereby declares that it would have enacted the remainder of this
chapter even without any such part, provision or application.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.006 SAVING PROVISION.
   This chapter shall not be construed as abating any action now pending under,
or by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations, or as discontinuing,
abating, modifying or altering any penalty accruing or about to accrue, or as
affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any
right of the city under any section or provision existing at the time of
adoption of the regulations, or as vacating or annulling any rights obtained by
any person, firm or corporation, by lawful action of the city, except as shall
be expressly provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.007 RESERVATIONS AND APPEALS.
   Upon the adoption of this chapter according to law, any previous subdivision
regulations of the city, as amended, are hereby repealed, except as to the
sections expressly retained herein.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.008 AMENDMENTS.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may, of its own motion or upon petition
or at the direction of the Council, cause to be prepared amendments
supplementing or changing regulations herein established. Before any proposed
amendment can be acted on, a public hearing shall be held by the Planning and
Zoning Commission with notice given in the official newspaper at least ten days
prior to the hearing. If action is not taken within 60 days of the public
hearing, another hearing shall be held with the same procedures.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.009 CONDITIONS.
   Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable
conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of valid police power delegated
by the state to the city. The developer has the duty of compliance with
reasonable conditions laid down by the Planning and Zoning Commission for
design, dedication, improvement and restrictive use of land so as to conform to
the physical and economical development of the city and to the safety and
general welfare of the future lot owners in the subdivision and of the
community at large.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.010 RESUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   For any change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat, if the
change affects any street layout shown on the map, or area reserved thereon for
public use, or any lot line, or if it affects any map or plan legally reached
prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivision, the parcel
shall be approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission by the same procedure,
rules and regulations as for a subdivision.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.011 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General. The Board of Adjustment, on request of the applicant, may
grant a variance from strict compliance with the subdivision regulations
contained in this chapter when it finds that each of the following conditions
exist:
      (1)   Application of the subdivision regulations to the land will create
an unusual and exceptional hardship not experienced by other property of
similar intended use and condition;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of
substantial property rights;
      (3)   The authoring of the variance will not be of substantial detriment
to the community and will not materially impair the purposes of the subdivision
regulations or the public interest; and
      (4)   The intended use and conditions of the property forming the basis
for granting a variance are not of so general or recurrent a nature as to cause
the formulation and adoption of a general subdivision regulation for similar
uses and conditions.
   (B)   Conditions. In approving variances, the Board of Adjustment may
require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
objective of the standards or requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Procedures. A petition for any variance shall be submitted in writing
by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is filed for the
consideration of the Planning and Zoning Commission. The petition shall state
fully the grounds for the application and all of the facts relied upon by the
petitioner.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.012 ENFORCEMENT AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to enforce this
chapter and to bring to the attention of the City Attorney any violations or
lack of compliance herewith.
      (2)   No owner or agent of the owner of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any parcel before a plat of the
subdivision has been approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission and Council
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and filed with the County
Recorder.
   (B)   Civil enforcement. Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken by
law or in equity to prevent any violation of this chapter, to prevent unlawful
construction, to recover damages, to restrain, correct or abate a violation, to
prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, and these
remedies shall be in addition to the penalty provision of this chapter and,
further, it may be required that the building or premises be restored to its
original condition.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.013 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. A
BUILDING includes a structure; a BUILDING or STRUCTURE includes any part
thereof; USED or OCCUPIED as applied to any land or building shall be
constructed to include the words “intended, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied”.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on some other streets.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   BLOCK. Any combination of land ownership bounded by streets, roads or
highways or a combination thereof or by a combination of streets, roads or
highways and public parks, cemeteries, railroad right-of-way, streams, lakes or
similar human-made or natural physical barriers.
   BOND. Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory
to the Council wherever a bond is required by this chapter.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animal, chattels or movable property of any kind, including any
structure.
   CITY ENGINEER. The state licensed engineer designated by the Council to
furnish engineering assistance for the administration of this chapter.
   COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN (MASTER PLAN). A compilation of policy
statements, goals, standards and maps for guiding the physical, social and
economic development, both private and public, or the city and its environs and
may include, but is not limited to, the following: statements of policies,
goals, standards, a land use plan, a community facilities plan, a
transportation plan and recommendations for plan execution. A COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN represents the Planning and Zoning Commission’s recommendations for the
future development of the city.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN. The maps or drawings showing the specific location and
design of improvements to be installed in the subdivision.
   CROSS WALKWAY. A right-of-way or easement dedicated to public use, which
cuts across or into a block to facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets
and properties.
   CUL-DE-SAC (COURT). A maximum uninterrupted length of 600 feet of street
having one end open to traffic and being permanently terminated by a circular
turn-around for vehicles.
   DEVELOPER. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of a designated portion
of land by the public, individuals, groups or corporations for specific
purposes.
   ESCROW. A deposit of cash with the local government in lieu of an amount
required and still in force on a performance or maintenance bond. The ESCROW
funds shall be deposited in a separate account.
   FINAL PLAT. All required maps, information and documents as set forth in the
subdivision regulations and as required by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   FRONTAGE. The side of a lot abutting on a street or roadway.
   FRONTAGE STREET. Any street to be constructed by the developer or any
existing street in which development shall take place.
   GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A sketch preparatory to the preparation of the
preliminary plat to enable the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching
general agreement with the Planning and Zoning Commission as to the form of the
plat and the objectives of this chapter.
   GRADE. The slope of a road, street or other public way, specified in
percentage terms.
   IMPROVEMENTS. See LOT IMPROVEMENTS or PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended as a unit
for transfer of ownership or for development.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets, the interior
angle of the intersection not exceeding 135 degrees.
   LOT IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any building, structure, place, work of art or other object, or
improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a physical
betterment of real property, or any part of the betterment.
      (2)   Certain lot improvements shall be properly bonded as provided in
this chapter.
   MONUMENT. Concrete and/or metal markers utilized to establish survey points
and lot boundaries.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or industrial. The subdivision shall comply
with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   OFFICIAL MAP. A map of the city and/or any portion thereof lying within the
incorporated limits, which shows the exact alignment, gradients, dimensions and
other pertinent data for highways and major streets and including specific
controls for setbacks from the right-of-way of buildings or other physical
structures or facilities.
   OPEN SPACE. An area of land preserved from building development and reserved
for the use of the general public or a homeowner’s association for the purpose
of active and passive recreation and certain necessary community facilities.
   OWNER. Any person or any other legal entity having legal title to or
sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided under this
chapter.
   PARK AND RECREATION DEVELOPMENT FUND. A special fund established by the
Council to retain monies contributed by developers in accordance with the money
in lieu of land provisions of this chapter within reasonable proximity of the
land to be subdivided so as to be of local use to the fixture residents of the
subdivision.
   PARKS. Area of public land developed and maintained primarily as pleasurable
landscaped areas providing for both active and passive recreational purposes,
including tot-lots, playgrounds, neighborhood parks, play fields and special
purpose areas.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. All required maps, information and documents as set forth
in this chapter and as acquired by the Planning and Zoning Commission for
approval.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement or other
facility for which the local government may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which local government responsibility is established. All such
IMPROVEMENTS shall be properly bonded.
   RESUBDIVISION. A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat
if the change affects any street layout on such map or area reserved thereon
for public use, or any lot line; or if it affects any map or plan legally
recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees or for another
special use. The usage of the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting purpose shall
mean that every RIGHT-OF-WAY hereafter established and shown on a final plat is
to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining the RIGHT-OF-WAY
and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. RIGHT-
OF-WAY intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm
drains, shade trees or any other use involving maintenance by the maker of the
plat on which the RIGHT-OF-WAY is established.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH. The distance between property lines measured at right
angles to the centerline of the street.
   STREETS.
      (1)   ARTERIAL. A four-lane street which provides service for intraurban
trips at a somewhat lower level of traffic mobility than the expressway. The
at-grade intersections should be fully or partially regulated by traffic-
control devices to ensure safe and efficient conditions for the ARTERIAL
traffic. Direct private access onto the street will be permitted but regulated.
Under certain circumstances, a frontage road may be needed. Additional right-
of-way would be required for the frontage road.
      (2)   COLLECTOR. A street that serves local traffic and provides for
direct private access to abutting land uses. This system channels the local
traffic to and from the arterial system and is capable of serving a minimum
amount of through traffic.
      (3)   EXPRESSWAY. Divided roadways which are designed for through traffic
and also to serve intraurban travel between major centers of activity in the
metropolitan area. The at-grade intersections are usually spaced at infrequent
intervals and are fully or partially regulated by traffic-control devices. No
direct private access onto the street should be permitted so as to minimize the
number of vehicles/vehicle conflicts. If no alternative forms of access are
available and frontage roads are warranted, additional right-of-way will be
required.
      (4)   FREEWAYS. Designed for the safe and efficient movement of high
volumes of through traffic, at relatively high speeds. A standard design
feature of a FREEWAY is a divided roadway with full control of access by the
use of ramps.
      (5)   FRONTAGE ROAD. Adjacent to a major thoroughfare. Its primary
function is to preserve the safety and capacity of the thoroughfare by
controlling access to the major street while still providing direct access to
the adjoining properties. The roadway of the FRONTAGE ROAD abuts the
thoroughfare’s right-of-way.
      (6)   LOCAL. Offers the lowest level of mobility because service to
through traffic is deliberately discouraged. Direct private access to abutting
land uses is provided.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person who:
      (1)   Having an interest in land, causes it, directly or indirectly, to
be divided into subdivision;
      (2)   Directly or indirectly, sells, leases or develops or offers to
sell, lease or develop, or advertises for sale, lease or development any
interest, lot, parcel site, unit or plat in a subdivision;
      (3)   Engages directly or through an agent in the business of selling,
leasing, developing or offering for sale, lease or development a subdivision or
any interest, lot, parcel site, unit or plat in a subdivision; and/or
      (4)   Is directly or indirectly controlled by, or under direct or
indirect, common control with any of the foregoing.
   SUBDIVISION. Any land, vacant or improved, which is divided or proposed to
be divided into two or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or interests for
the purpose of offer, sale, lease or development, either on the installment
plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and conditions, including the
resubdivision. SUBDIVISION includes the division or development of residential
and non-residential zoned land, whether by deed, metes and bounds description,
lease, map, plat or other recorded instrument.
   SUBDIVISION AGENT. Any person who represents, or acts on behalf of, a
subdivider or developer, in selling, leasing or developing, or offering to
sell, lease or develop any interest, lot, parcel, unit, site or plat in a
subdivision, except an attorney-at-law whose representation of another person
consists solely of rendering legal services.
   SUBDIVISION BY METES AND BOUNDS. Any subdivision containing not more than
three lots fronting on an existing street, not involving any new street or
road, or the extension of municipal facilities, or the creation of any public
improvements, and not adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel or
adjoining property, and not in conflict with any provision or portion of the
master plan, official map, Zoning Code or this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION PLAT. The final map or drawing, described in this chapter, on
which the subdivider’s plan of subdivision is presented to the Planning and
Zoning Commission and the Council for approval and which, if approved, may be
submitted to the County Recorder for filing.
   VARIANCE. Any departure from the requirements of this chapter that is
granted by the appropriate governmental agency.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The officer as appointed by the Council to administer
this chapter and to assist administratively other boards and commissions.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.014 IMPROVEMENTS, PAYMENT AND PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   (A)   The city may finance public works within the limits of sound fiscal
policy. A cash deposit equal to the estimated construction costs, determined by
the City Engineer, shall be made prior to the authorization of any public
works.
   (B)   In new subdivisions, the cost of all public works, including all
engineering and administrative costs, shall be assessed to the properties
benefitted. These costs shall be assessed as follows:
      (1)   All storm drainage costs will be paid by the city and assessed on a
per lot basis;
      (2)   All sanitary sewer and water main construction costs will be paid
by the city and will be assessed on a front foot basis;
      (3)   All service lines will be paid by the city and assessed on a unit
basis;
      (4)   All trunk line sewer and water main construction costs will be
assessed to the area to be developed on a per lot basis;
      (5)   All street construction costs including grading, base, curb and
gutter and surfacing will be paid by the city and will be assessed on a per
front foot basis;
      (6)   All assessments to the property shall be over a period as
determined by the control not to exceed 15 years, with a simple interest rate
of 1% over bond rate; and
      (7)   Assessment charges shall include all construction, engineering and
administrative costs.
   (C)   The subdivider, at his or her option, may install public improvements
in a new subdivision or resubdivision in accordance with the subdivision
application.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.015 FEES.
   (A)   A filing fee payable to the city shall accompany the application for
final review by the Council of each subdivision.
   (B)   The filing fees shall be as set forth and changed from time to time by
action of the Council.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
SUBMISSION OF PLATS
§ 151.030 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The subdivider shall prepare a general development plan and a
preliminary plat, which shall conform to the requirements of this chapter and
others, together with improvement plans and other supplemental material as may
be specified by the Planning and Zoning Commission and its reviewing agencies.
   (B)   An application shall be filed at least 15 days prior to the meeting of
the Planning and Zoning Commission, at which action is desired. After approval,
the City Administrator shall send copies of the preliminary plat to each of the
following agencies for their comments or recommendations:
      (1)   Public Utilities Commission;
      (2)   Street Department;
      (3)   Park and Recreation Board;
      (4)   Sewer Department;
      (5)   Fire Department;
      (6)   City Engineer;
      (7)   County Engineer, if the subdivision is adjacent to a county road;
      (8)   State Highway Commissioner, if the subdivision is adjacent to a
state highway;
      (9)   DNR Commissioner, if the subdivision is adjacent to the floodplain;
and
      (10)   County Commissioners, if the subdivision lies outside the
corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.031 PUBLIC HEARING ON PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission or City Council shall hold at least one
public hearing on the preliminary plat. Notice of the public hearing shall be
given at least ten days before the date of the hearing by publications in the
official newspaper and by written notice mailed to the applicant and to owners
of record listed in the office of the City Administrator of all land within 350
feet of the outer boundary of the preliminary plat. The failure to give mailed
notice to individual property owners or defects in the notice shall not affect
the validity of the proceedings or of any action taken by the Planning and
Zoning Commission or the Council. It shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider to furnish the city with names and addresses of all owners of
property within 350 feet of the development boundaries. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall give a recommendation on the plat to City Council. City
Council has final say regarding approval or disapproval of a preliminary plat.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.032 APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   Approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute approval of the final
plat. Unless earlier rescinded by the Council, approval of a preliminary plat
is limited to a period of one year after which time the applicant is required
to resubmit preliminary plat. Upon application filed with the City
Administrator, the Council may continue the approval for an additional period
of time. The application shall be filed at least 20 days prior to expiration of
the approval of the preliminary plat.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.033 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Following approval of a preliminary plat, the applicant may prepare a
final plat and shall file with the City Administrator an application for
approval of the final plat. The application shall be filed at least 15 days
prior to the meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission, at which action is
desired. The City Administrator shall send copies of the application and final
plat to each of the agencies which received a preliminary plat for their
comments and recommendations.
   (B)   No final plat shall be considered unless it is filed with the City
Administrator within the effective period of the approval of the preliminary
plat.
   (C)   A final plat shall conform to the requirements of this chapter and all
conditions set forth in the approval of the preliminary plat.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.034 REVIEW OF FINAL PLAT.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the final plat and the
comments and recommendations of the other agencies and shall submit its
findings and recommendations in writing to the Council and the applicant.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.035 COUNCIL ACTION; FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The Council shall, by resolution, approve or disapprove the final
plat.
   (B)   The reasons for disapproval shall be recorded in the minutes of the
Council and reported to the applicant and Planning and Zoning Commission by the
City Administrator.
   (C)   No final plat shall be approved by the Council unless satisfactory
evidence is filed with the city that all past taxes have been paid in full,
that the final plat is in a form acceptable for recording in the office of the
County Recorder and until there is deposited with the city the amount of the
filing fee to be charged for the recording.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.036 RECORDING FINAL PLAT.
   Upon approval by the Council, the City Administrator shall record the final
plat in the office of the County Recorder as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.037 DENIAL OF PLAN AND/OR PLAT.
   In the case of all subdivisions, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
recommend denial of, and the City Council may deny, approval of a preliminary
or final plat if it makes any of the following findings:
   (A)   The proposed subdivision, including the design, is in conflict with
any adopted component of the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Code or any other
provision of the city code;
   (B)   The physical characteristics of this site, including, but not limited
to, topography, vegetation, susceptibility to erosion and siltation,
susceptibility to flooding, water storage, drainage and retention, are such
that the site is not suitable for the type of development or use contemplated;
   (C)   The site is not physically suitable for the proposed density of
development;
   (D)   The design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements is likely
to cause substantial environmental damage;
   (E)   The design of the subdivision or the type of improvements is likely to
cause serious public health problems;
   (F)   The design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will
conflict with easements of record;
   (G)   The design will create a significantly higher density than the
surrounding areas; and
   (H)   The design will create an undue burden on the city’s traffic system or
water/wastewater infrastructure.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
APPLICATIONS AND PLATS
§ 151.050 APPLICATION FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   An application for approval of a preliminary plat shall include the
following:
   (A)   A copy of the completed and signed application;
   (B)   A cover letter describing the project including, but not limited to,
the number of lots and overall density. The cover letter should also include a
written request for any proposed variance and findings to support said
variance;
   (C)   Six copies of the preliminary plat on black or blue line prints;
   (D)   Six copies of the preliminary street and sidewalk profile map on black
or blue line prints with outside dimensions of 24 inches wide and 36 inches
long drawn to a horizontal scale of one-inch equals 100 feet and a vertical
scale of one-inch equals ten feet, showing the location of existing and
proposed streets and sidewalks, utility easements, depth to rock and ground
water along the streets and typical street cross-sections; and
   (E)   Six copies of a vicinity map drawn either on each preliminary plat or
on a separate sheet with a scale of one-inch equals 500 feet or more, but not
to exceed 1,000 feet, showing existing subdivisions, streets and tracts of land
adjoining the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.051 APPLICATION FOR FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   An application for approval of a final plat shall include the
following:
      (1)   Two copies of the completed and signed application;
      (2)   A cover letter describing the project including, but not limited
to, changes between the preliminary and final plat, if any conditions were
required in the approval of the final plat, and how the final plat meets all
applicable conditions and code requirements;
      (3)   Ten copies of the final plat on black or blue line prints;
      (4)   One reproducible Mylar of the final plat, each of which shall
contain all of the certifications, signatures (except that of the City
Administrator and County Recorder) and acknowledgment required to file and
record the same in the office of the County Recorder;
      (5)   Two copies of a title opinion prepared by an attorney and approved
by the City Attorney identifying the owners and persons of record having an
interest in the properties being subdivided;
      (6)   A copy of boundary closure calculations; and
      (7)   Two copies of existing or proposed private deed restrictions, if
any.
   (B)   Except for the signature of the City Administrator, the final plat
shall be in recordable form and shall include the fee to be charged for filing
and recording of the plat in the office of the County Recorder indicating the
amount of the fee.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.052 FORMAT.
   Each preliminary plat shall be prepared by a State Engineer or State
Registered Land Surveyor. When more than one sheet, it shall be numbered
consecutively and shall contain a notation of the total number of sheets (i.e.,
two of three). Each plat shall be drawn to scale of one-inch equals 100 feet.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.053 FORM OF PLATS.
   Preliminary plats and final plats shall be prepared in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and the laws of the state and shall contain the
following information:
Preliminary Plat Final Plat
(All measurements and information shall be accurate)
Preliminary     Final Plat
Plat
(All measurements and information shall be accurate)
Boundaries:
length and
bearing of the
exterior        Boundaries: same
boundaries of
the land being
subdivided
Certificates:   Certificates
omit
               City Administrator: a certificate by the City Administrator that the plat has
                been approved by the Council
               County Surveyor: a certificate that the plat has been checked for surveying
                accuracy and compliance with applicable state platting laws
                Owner: a certificate of the owners in substantially the form as follows: “As
               owners, we hereby certify that we caused the land described on this plat to be
                surveyed, divided, mapped, dedicated as represented on the plat”; this
                certificate shall be signed
                Surveyor: a certificate of the surveyor that the plat was made in accordance
                with this chapter and the laws of the state, that the plat is a correct
               representative of the survey, that all distances are correctly shown on the
                plat, that all monuments have been correctly placed in the ground as shown and
                that the outside boundary lines are correctly designated on the plat
               Taxes: a certificate by the County Auditor that all prior taxes have been paid;
                acknowledged and witnessed as required by law for recording conveyances
                Dedication: a statement of dedication signed, acknowledged and witnessed as
                required by law for recording conveyances; the dedication shall read
                substantially as follows: “We, the undersigned, certify that we are the sole
Dedication:     interested parties in the tract of land described in the foregoing Surveyor’s
omit            Certificate, which is written on the plat on which this instrument is written,
                that we have caused the same to be surveyed and platted as ... subdivision as
                shown on said plat and that we do hereby grant and dedicate to the public for
                public use forever the streets, alleys, avenues, park sites, walks, easements,
                school facilities and limited accesses as shown thereon”.
Deed            Deed restrictions: copies of proposed deed restrictions, if any, shall be
restrictions:   attached to the final plat
omit
Existing
streets and
public uses:
layout, width
and
identification
of existing
public streets,
easements,      Existing streets and public uses: same
drainage
ditches, parks
and other
public property
within and
adjacent to the
proposed
subdivision
Existing
utilities:
location of
existing
sanitary and
storm sewer
lines, water
mains and
culverts        Existing utilities: omit
adjacent to the
proposed
subdivision
with pipe
sizes, cross-
sectional
areas, grades
and capacities
indicated
Identification:
date, scale,
north point and
proposed name
of the
subdivision;
the name shall  Identification: same
not duplicate
or closely
approximate the
name of any
other
subdivision in
the city
Legal
description:
legal           Legal description; same
description of
the land to be
subdivided
Lots and
blocks: layouts
and approximate
dimensions of
lots and
blocks; lots
shall be        Lots and blocks: layout and exact dimensions of lots and blocks; lots shall be
numbered        numbered progressively through each block and blocks shall be numbered
progressively   progressively through each plat
through each
block, and
blocks shall be
numbered
progressively
through each
plat
Monuments and
lot corners:
the approximate Monuments and lot corners: the exact location and material of all permanent lot
location of all corners and monuments
permanent
monuments and
lot corners
Other existing
features:
location of
existing
buildings and
structures,
railroad right-
of-way,
municipal
lines, township
lines and
lakes, rivers
and streams,    Other existing features: same, except buildings and structures shall be omitted
and their known
high and low
water
elevations;
water elevation
references
shall be the
United States
Geological
Survey Datum;
flood hazard
areas shall be
clearly labeled
Principals:
names of the
owners of       Principals: same
record and
registered land
surveyors
Proposed
features:
layout, width
and
identification
of proposed
streets,
easements,
drainage
ditches, parks
and other
property to be  Proposed features: layout, width and identification of proposed street rights-
dedicated to    of-way, easements, drainage ditches, parks and other property to be dedicated
the public or   to the public or reserved by covenants for the common use of property owners
reserved by     within the subdivision
covenants for
the common use
of property
owners within
the
subdivision;
location of
proposed sewer
lines, water
mains, culverts
and drainage
facilities
Radii and
tangents:
approximate
radii of all    Radii and tangents: exact radii of all curves and lengths of tangents
curves and
lengths of all
tangents
Topography:
topographic map
of the area
showing
contours as
follows: 2-foot
intervals where
slope is 7% or
less; 5-foot
intervals where
slope is from
7% to 15%; 20-  Topography: omit
foot intervals
where slope is
greater than
15%; all areas
of the
subdivision to
be platted with
a slope greater
than 25% must
be clearly
indicated
Zoning:
identification  Zoning: omit
of zoning
classification
 
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.054 CONVEYANCE OF UNPLATTED LAND OR PORTION OF PLATTED LOT.
   No conveyance involving a portion of a platted lot or involving unplatted
land the conveyance of which is prohibited by M.S. § 462.358, Subd. 9, as it
may be amended from time to time, shall be made unless approval is first
obtained as follows.
   (A)   Portion of platted lots. On application of the owner, the Planning and
Zoning Commission may approve a conveyance of a portion of a platted lot under
the following circumstances if, in each instance, the new and residual parcels
of land which would result from the conveyance meet the frontage and area
requirements of
Chapter 152:
      (1)   When it is desired to detach a portion of a plotted lot and add it
to an adjoining platted lot; and
      (2)   When it is desired to divide two platted lots into not more than
three parcels and the dedication of public utility or street easements is not
involved.
   (B)   Unplatted land. On application of the owner filed with the Zoning
Administrator, the Council, by resolution, may approve a conveyance by metes
and bounds if it is determined that the following conditions exists:
      (1)   The restriction against such conveyance will create an unnecessary
hardship;
      (2)   The conveyance will not interfere with the purposes of this
chapter;
      (3)   The dedication of the public utility or street easements’ is not
involved;
      (4)   The conveyance involves the division of a parcel into not more than
three separate parcels; and
      (5)   The new and residential parcels of land which would result from the
conveyance meet the frontage and area requirements of
Chapter 152.
   (C)   Applications. All applications under this section shall be filed with
the Zoning Administrator and shall have attached thereto a surveyor’s
certificate, legal description and map of the land to be surveyed.
   (D)   Violations. Any owner or agent of the owner of land who conveys a
portion of a platted lot or unplatted land in violation of the provisions of
this section shall be subject to the same violation provisions as set forth in
§
10.99.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 151.065 GENERAL.
   The design of each subdivision and resubdivision shall conform to the
Comprehensive Plan and shall comply with the design standards contained in this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.066 STREET DESIGN.
   (A)   The street system of a proposed subdivision shall be designed to
facilitate adequate traffic circulation within the subdivision and from the
subdivision to adjacent areas.
   (B)   Street arrangements, character, width, grade, location, sight distance
and surface material shall be related to existing or planned streets,
topography, convenience, safety and their intended ultimate function.
      (1)   The arrangement of major streets in a subdivision shall provide for
the continuation or projection of existing streets in adjacent areas or conform
to a plan approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission where topographic or
other conditions make continuance of conformance to existing streets
impracticable.
      (2)   Collector streets shall be properly related to major streets and
designed in a manner so as to supplement the major street system but not to
serve in lieu thereof.
      (3)   Local streets shall be designed to benefit from the topography, to
discourage through traffic and to provide the minimum amount of street
necessary for safe access to adjacent property. The use of curvilinear and cul-
de-sac streets is allowed where necessary.
      (4)   Where a subdivision abuts upon, or contains, an existing or
proposed highway, major thoroughfare or railroad right-of-way, the Planning and
Zoning Commission may require reverse frontage lots with appropriate screen
plantings in the non-access reservation strip; or the provision of suitable
access roads parallel to, and on either side of, the highway, major
thoroughfare or railroad right-of-way providing access to adjacent properties
and affording separation of through and local traffic.
      (5)   Streets are designed and laid out so as to have one end permanently
closed shall not exceed 600 feet in length, except where the Board of
Adjustment has approved additional length due to property limitation or large
lot size.
      (6)   Turnarounds shall be provided at the permanently closed ends of all
streets and shall have a minimum turnaround radius of 50 feet. The Planning and
Zoning Commission may approve a “T” or “Y” type turnaround in lieu of the
circular turnaround.
      (7)   All subdivisions abutting a public lake, river or stream shall
provide public access at least 80 feet wide to the low water elevation so that
there will be public access at not more than one-quarter mile interval as
measured along the false, river or stream shoreline.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.067 SIDEWALK DESIGN.
   All sidewalks should be constructed parallel with the street and shall be
located on the public right-of-way. Sidewalks shall be five feet in width and
constructed according to specifications on file at city hall.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.068 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   All streets shall intersect at right angles or as close thereto as
possible.
   (B)   No street shall intersect another at an angle of less than 70 degrees.
   (C)   More than two streets intersecting at the same location shall be
prohibited.
   (D)   Street jogs with centerline off-sets of less than 150 feet shall be
prohibited.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.069 UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   Easements for telephone service, electricity, gas lines and other public
utilities shall be provided and centered along the rear and side lot lines when
needed. The easements shall be ten feet in width and shall be aligned from
block to block.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.070 BLOCKS.
   Block lengths shall not exceed 1,200 feet and shall not be less than 300
feet. Block widths shall be sufficient to provide two tiers of lots of
appropriate depth.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.071 LOTS.
   (A)   The size, shape and orientation of lots shall be appropriate for the
location of the proposed subdivision and the type of use contemplated. All lots
shall comply with the minimum lot frontage and area requirements specified in
Chapter 152.
   (B)   Every lot shall abut on a public street a minimum of 40 feet to assure
access for fire protection, utilities and other services.
   (C)   Lot remnants which are less than the minimum lot size shall be added
to adjacent lots.
   (D)   Side lot lines shall be as near to perpendicular to straight streets
as possible. Side lot lines adjacent to curved streets shall be radial to the
curved.
   (E)   Residential lots fronting freeways, expressways and major streets,
where deemed appropriate by the Council, shall be separated therefrom by the
use of frontage roads, parallel streets, service drives or alleys in order to
eliminate direct access to the major street.
   (F)   Residential lots shall have sidewalks constructed parallel with
streets and shall be constructed in the public right-of-way.
   (G)   Residential lots fronting freeways, expressways and major streets,
where deemed appropriate by the Council, shall be separated therefrom by the
use of frontage roads, parallel streets, service drives or alleys in order to
eliminate direct access to the major street.
   (H)   Residential lots shall have sidewalks constructed parallel with
streets and shall be constructed in the public right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.072 PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS, RECREATION AREAS AND SCHOOL FACILITIES.
   In a subdivision, a developer is not required to contribute land for
recreational or school facility use, but must contribute money in lieu of land,
in the amount equal to 1.5% of the selling price of the total developed
subdivision. However, the Council, with recommendation of the Planning and
Zoning Commission, reserves the right to purchase a minimum of one-half acre of
the development at the current value for city use.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.085 GENERAL.
   The following improvements will be required for all new subdivisions and
resubdivisions within the jurisdiction of this chapter and to the
specifications as adopted by the Council:
   (A)   Water and sanitary sewer mains and laterals to the lot lines, water
hydrants and water main shut-off;
   (B)   Storm sewer, where required, to provide surface water drainage; and
   (C)   Rough grading for roadway and drainage.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.086 MONUMENTS.
   Durable iron monuments shall be placed at all block and lot corners, all
intermediate points on blocks where there is a change in the direction of the
block line, at points of curves in streets, at each angle and curve point on
the exterior boundary lines of the plat and at such other points as may be
required by the Planning and Zoning Commission. All monuments shall be a
minimum of one-half inch in diameter and 15 inches in length.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.087 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All public works shall be constructed in accordance with all
applicable state laws and regulations.
   (B)   All public works shall be constructed under the general supervision of
the City Engineer as directed by the Council.
   (C)   No individual wells or disposal systems may be constructed, except in
areas where the construction of city sewer and water is not feasible.
   (D)   In lands where city sewer and water are deemed by the Council to be
not feasible, development may take place if the following requirements are met:
      (1)   All land must be platted;
      (2)   All lots must have the capabilities of being served by city sewer
and water in the future;
      (3)   To meet the requirements for a building permit, each home site
shall consist of at least three city-sized lots or one lot of equivalent size;
      (4)   An individual well may serve up to four homes;
      (5)   Each home must have an individual disposal system;
      (6)   All wells and disposal systems must be built to all recommended
state standards; and
      (7)   In the event one home is to be built on three or more acres,
divisions (D)(2), (D)(3) and (D)(4) above shall not apply.
   (E)   The City Engineer shall be a duly registered civil engineer according
to the laws of the state.
   (F)   Plans for all public works shall be prepared by a registered civil
engineer. The plans shall be approved by the Council and the City Engineer.
   (G)   All level datum used within the city shall be referenced to mean sea
level datum, 1929 adjustment, as determined by the United States and the state.
   (H)   Public works shall be constructed to the current general
specifications of the State Department of Transportation, the standard
utilities specifications of the City Engineers Association of Minnesota and in
accordance with the city’s current standard specification and details.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.088 STREETS.
   (A)   All streets constructed to a minimum width of 36 feet and in
accordance with the city’s current standard specification and details.
   (B)   All street construction shall be done in at least two stages. Stage
one shall consist of utility construction, grading and base construction, and
all drainage construction. Stage two shall consist of curb and gutter and
surfacing. No more than one stage will be done in any one year.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.089 SIDEWALKS.
   All sidewalks shall be a minimum width of five feet, located in the public
right-of-way and constructed in accordance with the city’s current standard
specification and details.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.090 SERVICE LINES.
   Sewer service lines must conform with the state code and the city’s current
standard specification.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
§ 151.091 WATER.
   All water mains and services shall be constructed in accordance with the
city’s current standard specification and details.
(Ord. passed 10-13-2021)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Purpose
   
152.002   Definitions
   
152.003   Zoning Administrator
   
152.004   Compliance required
   
152.005   Zoning certificate
   
152.006   Violations
   
152.007   Board of Adjustment
Non-Conformities
   
152.020   Definitions
   
152.021   Restrictions on continuation of non-conformities
Zoning Procedures
   
152.035   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
152.036   Zoning amendments
   
152.037   Conditional use permits
   
152.038   Variances
   
152.039   Enforcement
Planned Unit Developments
   
152.050   Purpose
   
152.051   Permitted uses
   
152.052   General requirements
   
152.053   Coordination with subdivision regulations
   
152.054   Pre-application meeting
   
152.055   Preliminary development plan
   
152.056   Final development plan
   
152.057   Enforcing development schedule
   
152.058   Conveyance and maintenance of common open space
   
152.059   Standards for common or public open spaces
   
152.060   Planned unit development review and amendments
R-A Agriculture-Residence District
   
152.075   Purpose
   
152.076   Permitted uses
   
152.077   Conditional uses
   
152.078   Height, yard and lot regulations
   
152.079   Parking regulations
   
152.080   Sign regulations
R-1 One- and Two-Family Residence Districts
   
152.095   Permitted uses
   
152.096   Conditional uses
   
152.097   Performance standards for conditional uses in general
   
152.098   General performance standards for conditional uses
   
152.099   Performance standards for specific conditional uses
   
152.100   Height, yard and lot regulations
   
152.101   Parking regulations
   
152.102   Sign regulations
R-2 Multi-Family Residential District
   
152.115   Permitted uses
   
152.116   Accessory uses for one- and two-family homes
   
152.117   Conditional uses
   
152.118   Performance standards for conditional uses in general
   
152.119   General performance standards for conditional uses
   
152.120   Performance standards for specific conditional uses
   
152.121   Height, yard and area regulations
   
152.122   Parking regulations
   
152.123   Sign regulations
B-1 Service Business District
   
152.135   Permitted uses
   
152.136   Conditional uses
   
152.137   Height, yard and area regulations
   
152.138   Parking regulations
   
152.139   Permitted signs requiring a permit
B-2 General Business District
   
152.150   Permitted uses
   
152.151   Conditional uses
   
152.152   Height, yard and area regulations
   
152.153   General regulations
   
152.154   Parking regulations
   
152.155   Permitted signs requiring a permit
   
152.156   Performance standards for conditional uses
I-1 Limited Industrial District
   
152.175   Permitted uses
   
152.176   Conditional uses
   
152.177   Height, yard and area regulations
   
152.178   Performance standards
I-2 General Industrial District
   
152.190   Permitted uses
   
152.191   Conditional uses
   
152.192   Height, yard and area regulations
   
152.193   Performance standards
General Regulation of Signs
   
152.205   Definitions
   
152.206   Prohibited signs
   
152.207   Performance standards for permitted signs
   
152.208   Permitted signs not requiring a permit
   
152.209   Sign permits
   
152.210   Enforcement
Mobile Home Parks
   
152.225   Definitions
   
152.226   Location outside mobile home park
   
152.227   Application for permit
   
152.228   Building permit for mobile home park
   
152.229   Lot development standards
   
152.230   Restriction
   
152.231   Administration
   
152.232   Right to modify
Temporary Dwellings
   
152.245   Opt-out of M.S. § 462.3593
   
152.246   Sexually oriented businesses location regulation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as the Zoning Ordinance of Lewiston and is
referred to herein as this chapter.
   (B)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, the use of all land
and every building and the erection or structural alteration of any building or
portion of a building in the city shall be in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter. Any structure or use lawfully existing at the passage of this
chapter but not in conformity with the regulations of the appropriate zoning
district may be continued subject to the regulations this chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted as the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals,
convenience and general welfare. Where the provisions of any statute, other
ordinance or regulations impose greater restriction than this chapter, such
restrictions shall apply.
(Prior Code, Ch. 9, Part 1)
§ 152.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
BUILDINGS shall include the word “structure”; the word LOT shall include the
word “plot”.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure, or portion of a structure,
subordinate to and serving the principal use of structure on the same lot and
customarily incidental thereto.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Any building or structure existing or
erected which is used principally for an agricultural purpose, with the
exception of dwelling units.
   AGRICULTURE. The growing of soil crops in the customary manner on open
tracts of land, the raising of animals or poultry, includes incidental retail
selling by the produces or the products raised on the premises providing
customer parking space is furnished off the public right-of-way.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way less than 30 feet in width which
affords secondary means of access to abutting property.
   APARTMENTS. A room or suite of rooms designed for, intended for or used as a
residence for one family or individual and equipped with cooking facilities.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. Three or more apartments grouped in one building.
   AUTO OR MOTOR VEHICLE REDUCTION YARD. A lot or yard where one or more
unlicensed motor vehicles, or the remains thereof, are kept for the purpose of
dismantling, wrecking, crushing, repairing, rebuilding, sale of parts, sales as
scrap, storage or abandonment. (See also JUNK YARD.)
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A building designed primarily for the supplying
of motor fuel, oil, lubrication and accessories to motor vehicles or any
portion thereof.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground but having one-
half or more of its floor to ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A building of residential design wherein lodging is
provided to tourists and wherein breakfast may also be provided to said
tourists. The term TOURIST shall mean persons renting such accommodations for a
total period of time not to exceed 14 days during any consecutive 90-day
period.
   BLOCK. A track of land bounded by streets or a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines, unsubdivided
acreage or boundary line of the corporate limits of the city.
   BOARDING HOUSE. Any dwelling other than a hotel or a motel where meals or
lodging and meals for compensation are provided for two or more persons
pursuant to previous arrangements and not to anyone who may apply.
   BUILDING. Any structure for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattel or property of any kind; and when separated by party walls
without openings, each portion of such BUILDINGS so separated shall be deemed a
separate building.
   BUILDING ACCESSORY. A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental
to that of the main building on the same lot.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average of the lowest and
the highest point of that portion of the lot covered by the building to the
ceiling of the top most story.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to the street right-of-way line at any story
level of a building and representing the minimum distance which all or any part
of the building is set back from said right-of-way line.
   BUILDING SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the building at
its furthest protrusion and a lot line, or the normal high water mark of a
stream or river.
   BUSINESS. Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold, or where services are offered for compensation.
   CELLAR. The portion of a building having more than one-half of the floor-to-
ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining ground. The CELLAR
shall not be counted as a story for purposes of height limitations.
   CHURCH. A building, where persons regularly assemble for religious worship
and which building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, is
maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain public
worship.
   CLUSTERING/CLUSTER HOUSING. A development pattern and technique whereby
structures are arranged in closely related groups to make the most efficient
use of the natural amenities of the land.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A compilation of goals, policy statements, standards,
programs and maps for guiding the physical, social and economic development of
the city and its environs and includes any unit or part of such plan separately
adopted and any amendment to such plan or parts thereof.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use classified as conditional generally may be
appropriate or desirable in a specified zone, but requires special approval
because if not carefully located or designed it may create special problems
such as excessive height or bulk or traffic congestion.
   CONDOMINIUM. A form of individual ownership within a multi-family building
with joint responsibility for maintenance and repairs of the common property.
In a CONDOMINIUM, each apartment or townhouse is owned outright by its occupant
and each occupant also owns a share of the land and other common property.
   COOPERATIVE. A multi-unit development operated for and owned by its
occupants. Individual occupants do not own their specific housing unit outright
as in a condominium, but they own shares in the total enterprise.
   CURB LEVEL. The grade elevation established by the Council of the curb in
front of the center of the building. Where no CURB LEVEL has been established,
the city shall determine a CURB LEVEL or its equivalent for the purpose of this
chapter.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operation.
   DRIVE-IN. Any use where products and/or services are provided to the
customer under conditions where the customer does not have to leave the car or
where service to the automobile occupant is offered regardless of whether
service is also provided within a building.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED. One which is joined to another dwelling or building at
one or more sides by a party wall or walls.
   DWELLING, DETACHED. One which is entirely surrounded by open space on the
same lot with no common party walls.
   DWELLING UNIT. A residential building or portion thereof intended for
occupancy by a single family but not including hotels, motels, boarding or
rooming houses or tourist homes. There are three principal types:
      (1)   SINGLE/FAMILY DETACHED. A freestanding residence structure designed
for or occupied by one family only.
      (2)   SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED. A residential building containing two or
more dwelling units with one common wall.
         (a)   DUPLEX. A residence designed for or occupied by two families
only, with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for each.
         (b)   TOWNHOUSE. A residential building containing two or more
dwelling units with at least one common wall, each unit so oriented as to have
all exits open to the outside.
      (3)   MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A residence designed for or occupied by three or
more families, either wholly (attached) or partially a part of a large
structure (detached), with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for
each.
   EARTH SHELTERED BERM. An earth covering on the above grade portions of
building walls.
   EARTH SHELTERED BUILDING. A building constructed so that 50% or more of the
exterior surface is covered or in contact with earth. Exterior surface includes
all walls and roof, but excludes garages and other accessory buildings. Earth
covering walls are measured from the floor of the structure’s lowest level.
Earth covering on the roof must be at least 12 inches deep to be included in
calculations of earth covering. Partially completed buildings shall not be
considered EARTH SHELTERED.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land for the
purpose of constructing and maintaining walkways, roadways and utilities,
including, but not limited to, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines,
telephone lines, storm sewer or storm drainage ways and gas lines.
   EFFICIENCY UNIT. A dwelling unit with one primary room which doubles as a
living room, kitchen and bedroom.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Overhead or underground electrical, gas, steam or water
transmission or distribution systems and structure or collection,
communication, supply of disposal systems and structures used by public
utilities or governmental departments or commissions or as are required for the
protection of the public health, safety or general welfare, including towers,
poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes,
police call boxes and accessories in connection therewith but not including
buildings.
   EXTERIOR STORAGE (INCLUDES OPEN STORAGE). The storage of goods, materials,
equipment, manufactured products and similar items not fully enclosed by a
building.
   EXTRACTION AREA. Any non-agricultural artificial excavation of earth
exceeding 50 square feet of surface area of two feet in depth, other than
activity involved in preparing land for earth sheltered or conventional
construction of residential, commercial and industrial buildings, excavated or
made by the removal from gravel, stone or other natural matter, or made by
turning, or breaking or undermining the surface of the earth, except that
public improvement projects shall not be considered EXTRACTION AREAS.
   FAMILY. Any number of individuals living together on the premises as a
single non-profit housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a
boarding house, lodging house, hotel, club, fraternity or sorority house.
   FARM. A tract of land which is principally used for agricultural activities
such as the production of cash crops, livestock or poultry farming. Such FARMS
may include agricultural dwelling and accessory buildings and structures
necessary to the operation of the FARM.
   FENCE. Any partition, structure, wall or gate erected as a divider marker,
barrier or enclosure and located along the boundary, or within the required
yard.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building, measured from the exterior walls, including basements and attached
accessories.
   FRONTAGE. That boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated public
street.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building for storage only of self-propelled
vehicles and tools and equipment maintained incidental to a conforming use of
the premises.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any premises except those defined as a private garage used
for storage or care of self-propelled vehicles and/or where any such vehicles
are equipped for operation, repaired or kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. Any building or premises used for housing motor driven
vehicles and at which automobile fuels are not sold or motor vehicles are not
equipped, repaired, hired or sold.
   GRADE. The average of the finished level at the center of the exterior walls
of the building. For an earth sheltered building, GRADE means the average of
the finished level at the center of the lot. For a building with earth berm but
less than 50% earth covering, GRADE means the average of the finished level at
the center of the building at the beginning of the earth berm.
   HOME OCCUPATIONS. Any gainful occupation or profession engaged in by an
occupant of a dwelling unit as a use which is clearly incidental to the use of
the dwelling unit for residential purposes and subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   No retail business other than that conducted by mail shall be
permitted;
      (2)   No manufacturing business shall be allowed;
      (3)   No repair shall be allowed;
      (4)   No stock in trade shall be displayed for sale on the premises;
      (5)   Only members of the family occupying the premises as their personal
residence shall carry on the home occupation;
      (6)   No mechanical or electrical equipment which may cause noise or
interference with television, radio or other entertainment or communication
devices usually found in a residence shall be employed, installed or
maintained;
      (7)   No interior or exterior alterations shall be permitted and no
construction features shall be permitted which are not customarily found in a
dwelling;
      (8)   There shall be no exterior displays, no exterior signs except as
permitted for a dwelling unit in the district and no other exterior indication
of the home occupation;
      (9)   There shall be no exterior storage of equipment or materials used
in the occupation;
      (10)   The home occupation must be conducted entirely within a building;
      (11)   Clinics, doctor’s or dentist’s offices, hospitals, tea rooms,
restaurants, animal hospitals and kennels, motor vehicle repairing for hire and
welding, among others, shall not be deemed home occupations;
      (12)   Such occupations as architects, artists, writers, decorative craft
makers, designers, computer programmers, piecework mail, phone sales, licensed
day care (provided improved playground equipment areas are properly screened to
prevent unreasonable noise upon adjacent residential areas), dressmaking, and
millinery and similar domestic crafts shall be permitted; and
      (13)   No more than one-third of the area of any one level of a dwelling
may be used in a home occupation.
   HORTICULTURE. Uses and structures designed for the storage of products and
machinery pertaining and necessary thereto.
   HOTEL. Any building or portion thereof where lodging is offered to transient
guests for compensation and in which there are more than five sleeping rooms,
with no cooking facilities in individual dwelling units.
   JUNK YARD. Land or buildings where waste, discarded or salvaged materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, cleaned, packed, disassembled or handled,
including, but not limited to, scrap metal, rags, paper, rubber products, glass
products, lumber products and products resulting from the wrecking of
automobiles or other machinery.
   KENNEL. Any structure or premises on which four or more dogs over six months
of age are kept for sale, breeding, profit, training and the like.
   LANDSCAPING. Planting, including trees, grass, ground cover and shrubs.
   LODGING ROOM. A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities. In a suite of rooms without cooking facilities, each room
which provides sleeping accommodation shall be counted as one LODGING ROOM.
   LOT. One unit of a recorded plat or subdivision, which unit has frontage on
a street or proposed street, and is occupied, or to be occupied, by a building
and accessory buildings, and include as a minimum, such open spaces as are
required under this chapter.
   LOT AREA. The land area within the lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two or more streets.
   LOT COVERAGE. The area of the zoning lot occupied by the principal buildings
and accessory buildings. Earth berms are not to be included in calculating LOT
COVERAGE. Only the above-grade portions of an earth sheltered building should
be included in LOT COVERAGE calculations.
   LOT, DEPTH. The average distance between the front and rear lot line (the
greater frontage of a corner lot shall be deemed its depth and the lesser
frontage its width).
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. An interior lot having frontage on two streets.
   LOT INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT, KEY. The first lot to the rear of a corner lot, the front line of which
is a continuation of the side line of the corner lot, exclusive of the width of
any alley, and fronting on the street which intersects or intercepts the street
on which the corner lot fronts.
   LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot except that where any portion of
a lot extends into the public right-of-way shall be the LOT LINE for purposes
of this chapter.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public street and in the case of a corner lot, it shall be the shortest
dimension on a public street. If the dimensions of a corner lot are equal, the
FRONT LOT LINE shall be designated by the owner and filed with the County
Recorder.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line.
If the REAR LOT LINE is less than ten feet in length, or if the lot forms a
point at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE shall be a line ten feet in length within
the lot, parallel to, and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. Any lot which is one unit of a plat heretofore duly approved
and filed, or one unit of an auditor’s subdivision or a registered land survey
that has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder, prior to the
effective date of this chapter.
   LOT, SUBSTANDARD. A lot or parcel of land for which a deed has been recorded
in the office of the County Recorder upon or prior to the effective date of
this chapter which does not meet the minimum lot area, structure setbacks or
other dimensional standards of this chapter.
   LOT, WIDTH. The horizontal straight line distance between the side lot lines
of the setback line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or
more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and including
the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained
therein, except that the term includes any structure which meets all the
requirements, and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the Commissioner of Administration and complies with
the standards established under this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK. Any site, lot, field or tract of land under
single ownership, designated, maintained or intended for the placement of two
or more occupied homes. It shall include any buildings, structure, vehicle or
enclosure intended for use as part of the equipment of such MOBILE/MANUFACTURED
HOME PARK.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A method of property description by means of their
direction and distance from an easily identifiable point.
   MINING. The extraction of sand, gravel, rock, soil or other material from
the land in the amount of 1,000 cubic yards or more and the removing thereof
from the site. The only exclusion from this definition shall be removal of
materials associated with construction of a building; provided such removal is
an approved item in the building permit.
   MODULAR HOME. A non-mobile housing unit that is basically fabricated at a
central factory and transported to a building site where final installations
are made, permanently affixing the module to the site.
   MOTEL (TOURIST COURT). A building or group of detached, semi-detached or
attached buildings containing guest rooms or dwellings, with garage or parking
space conveniently located to each unit and which is designed, used or intended
to be used primarily for the accommodation of automobile transients.
   MOTOR HOME or RECREATION VEHICLE. Any vehicle mounted on wheels and for
which a license would be required if used on highway, roads or streets, and so
constructed and designed as to permit occupancy thereof for dwelling or
sleeping purposes and used for recreational purposes.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use lawfully in existence on the effective date of
this chapter and not conforming to the regulations for the district in which it
is situated, except that such a use is not non-conforming if it would be
authorized under a special use permit where located.
   NURSERY, LANDSCAPING. A business growing and selling trees, flowering and
decorative plants and shrubs and which may be conducted within a building or
without, for the purpose of landscape construction.
   NURSING HOME. A building with facilities for the care of children, the aged,
infirm or place of rest for those suffering bodily disorder. The NURSING HOME
shall be licensed by the Department of Health as provided for in M.S. § 144.50,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projections, excavation, channel, modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill structure or matter in, along, across or projecting
into any channel, watercourse or regulatory floodplain which may impede, retard
or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching
or collecting debris carried by such water.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK. A mark delineating the highest water level which
has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape. The ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK is commonly that point where the
natural vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly
terrestrial.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A residential development whereby buildings are
grouped or clustered in and around common open space areas in accordance with a
prearranged site plan and where the common open space is owned by the
homeowners and usually maintained by a homeowner’s association.
   PREMISES. A lot or plot with the required front, side and rear yards for a
dwelling or other use as allowed under this chapter.
   SETBACK. The shortest distance between the front lot line and the foundation
wall of a building or the allowable building line as defined by the front yard
regulations of this chapter.
   SIGN. A name, identification, display, illustration or device which is
affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure or
land in view of the general public and which directs attention to a product,
place, activity, purpose, institution or business.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service activity or entertainment not necessarily conducted, sold or offered
upon the premises where such a sign is located.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
or a commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the premises
where such sign is located.
   SIGN, FLASHING. Any illuminated sign on which such illumination is not kept
stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times when such sign is in
use.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs
or outlines illuminated by electric light or luminous tubes as a part of the
design.
   SIGN, NAMEPLATE. Any sign which states the name or address of both the
business or occupant on the lot where the sign is placed.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign, other than a wall sign, which projects from and is
supported by a wall of a building or structure.
   SIGN, PYLON. A freestanding sign erected upon a single pylon or post which
is in excess of ten feet in height with a sign mounted on top thereof.
   SIGN, ROTATING. A sign which revolves or rotates on its axis by mechanical
means.
   SIGN, SURFACE AREA OF. The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of the actual sign surface, not including any
structural elements outside the limits of such sign and not forming an integral
part of the display. (Only one side of a double-face or V-type sign structure
shall be used in computing total surface area.)
   SIGN, WALL (FLAT). A sign affixed directly to the exterior wall and confined
within the limits thereof of any building and which projects from that surface
less than 18 inches at all points.
   SOLAR ACCESS SPACE. The airspace above all lots within the district
necessary to prevent any improvements, vegetation or tree located on said lots
from casting a shadow upon any solar device located within said zone greater
than the shadow cast by a hypothetical vertical wall ten feet high located
along the property lines of said lots between the hours of 9:30 a.m. and 3:30
p.m., Central Standard Time on December 21; provided, however, this chapter
shall not apply to any improvements or tree which casts a shadow upon a solar
device at the time of the installation of said device or to vegetation existing
at the time of installation of said solar device.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device, or combination of devices, structure or part of a
device or structure that transforms direct solar energy into thermal, chemical
or electrical energy and that contributes significantly to a structure’s energy
and supply.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A complete design or assembly consisting of a solar
energy collector, an energy storage facility (where used) and components to the
distribution of transformed energy (to the extent they cannot be used jointly
with a conventional energy system). To qualify as a SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, the
system must be permanently located for not less than 90 days in any calendar
year beginning with the first calendar year after completion of construction.
Passive SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS are included in this definition but not to the
extent that they fulfill other functions such as structural and recreational.
   SOLAR SKYSPACE. The space between a solar energy collector and the sum which
must be free of obstructions that shade the collector to an extent which
precludes its cost-effective operation.
   SOLAR SKYSPACE EASEMENT. A right, expressed as an easement, covenant,
condition or other property interest in any deed or other instrument executed
by or on behalf of any landowner, which protects the solar skyspace of an
actual, proposed or designated solar energy collector at a described location
by forbidding or limiting activities or land uses that interfere with access to
solar energy. The SOLAR SKYSPACE must be described as the three-dimensional
space in which obstruction is prohibited or limited, or as the times of day
during which direct sunlight to the solar collector may not be obstructed, or
as a combination of the two methods.
   SOLAR STRUCTURE. A structure designed to utilize solar energy as an
alternate for, or supplement to, a conventional energy system.
   STORY. The portion of the building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the next floor above it, or, if there is no floor above it,
the space between the floor and the ceiling above it.
   STORY, HALF. A story with at least two opposite exterior sides meeting a
sloping roof not more than two feet above the floor of such story.
   STREET. A public right-of-way which affords primary means of access to
abutting property, and shall also include avenue, highway, road or way.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which serves or is designed to serve as a
traffic way for a neighborhood or as a feeder to a major street.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street intended to serve primarily as an access to abutting
properties.
   STREET, MAJOR OR THOROUGHFARE. A street which serves, or is designed to
serve, heavy flows of traffic and which is used primarily as a route for
traffic between communities and/or other heavy traffic generating areas.
   STREET PAVEMENT. The wearing or exposed surface of the roadway used by
vehicular traffic.
   STREET WIDTH. The width of the right-of-way, measured at right angles to the
centerline of the street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change or addition to the supporting members of a
building such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having a location on the
ground.
   USE. The purpose for which land or premises of the building thereon is
designated, arranged or intended, or for which it may be occupied or
maintained.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use incidental or accessory to the principal use of a lot
or building located on the same lot as the accessory use.
   WETLAND. Land which is annually subject to periodic or continual inundation
by water and commonly referred to as bog, swamp or marsh.
   YARD. An open space other than a court on the same lot with a building,
which open space is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the front lot line and the front building line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the width of the lot and lying between
the rear lot line and the nearest line of the principal building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line
and lying between the side lot line and the nearest line of a building.
   ZERO LOT LINE BUILDINGS. A building which either shares a common wall with a
building on an adjacent lot or which has an outside separate wall immediately
adjacent to a similar wall on an adjacent parcel.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The duly appointed person charged with enforcement of
this chapter.
   ZONING AMENDMENT. A change authorized by the city either in the allowed use
with a district or in the boundaries of a district.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area or areas within the limits of the city for which
the regulations and requirements governing use are uniform as defined by this
chapter.
(Prior Code, §§ 901.01, 903.03)
§ 152.003 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Generally. The Zoning Administrator shall be appointed or hired by the
City Council and shall have the power and duty to enforce this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 903.01)
   (B)   Specific powers and duties. The Zoning Administrator shall enforce
this chapter and shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Issue occupancy, building and other permits, and make and maintain
record thereof;
      (2)   Conduct inspections of buildings and use of land to determine
compliance with the terms of this chapter;
      (3)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including,
but not limited to, all maps, amendments, conditional uses, variances, appeals
and applications therefore;
      (4)   Review, file and forward all applications for appeals, variances,
conditional use or other matters to the designated official bodies; and
      (5)   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits
have been received from those governmental agencies from which approval is
required by federal or state law.
(Prior Code, § 903.02)
§ 152.004 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of all property owners, architects, contractors,
subcontractors, builders and other persons involved in the use of property, the
erecting, altering, changing or remodeling of any building or structure,
including tents and mobile homes, before beginning or undertaking any such use
or work, to see that such work does not conflict with and is not in violation
of the provisions of this chapter, and any such property owner, architect,
builder, contractor or other person using property, or doing or performing any
such work and in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be held
accountable for such violation.
(Prior Code, § 903.03)
§ 152.005 ZONING CERTIFICATE.
   It shall be unlawful to use, occupy or permit the use of occupancy of any
building or premises or part thereof hereafter created, erected, changed,
converted, altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a zoning
certificate has been issued by the Zoning Administrator stating that the use of
the building or land conforms to the requirements of this chapter. Where a non-
conforming use or structure is extended or substantially altered, the zoning
certificate shall specifically state the manner in which the non-conforming
structure or use differs from the provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 903.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.006 VIOLATIONS.
   Any property, building or structure being used, erected, constructed or
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained in a manner not
permitted by this chapter, shall be prohibited. The City Council or the Zoning
Administrator may institute appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate such violations or threatened violations.
(Prior Code, § 903.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.007 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   A Board of Zoning Adjustment is hereby established which shall consist
of the entire City Council and shall be vested with such administrative
authority as hereinafter provided. The members may be paid their necessary
expenses, in the conduct of the business of the Board, which exceeds usual
expenses as regular Council members.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be the chairperson of the Board. The City
Administrator shall act as secretary, but will not be a member of the Board. It
shall adopt rules from the transaction of its business and shall keep a public
record of its transaction, findings and determinations.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall act upon all questions as they may arise
in the administration of this chapter, including the interpretation of zoning
maps, and it shall hear and decide appeals from and review any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by such an administrative official
charged with enforcing this chapter. Such appeal may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the city. The Board
of Adjustment shall also have the power to grant variances to the provisions of
this chapter under certain conditions. The conditions for the issuance of a
variance are as indicated in §
152.038. No use variances (uses different than those allowed in the district)
shall be issued by the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
   (D)   Hearings by the Board of Adjustment shall be held within such time and
upon such notice to interested parties as is provided in this chapter and its
adopted rules for the transaction of this business. The Board shall, within a
reasonable time, make its order deciding the matter and shall serve a copy of
such order upon the appellant or petitioner by mail. Any party may appear at
the hearing in person or by agent or attorney.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment may reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or may
modify the order, requirement, decision or determination as in its opinion
ought to be made in each case. The reasons for the Board’s decision shall be
stated in the Board’s minutes and communication to applicants.
(Prior Code, § 903.07)
NON-CONFORMITIES
§ 152.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GENERAL DESCRIPTION. A use, structure or lot that does not conform to this
chapter.
   NON-CONFORMING LOT. Any single lot of record existing on the effective date
of a zoning ordinance or amendment thereto that fails to meet the requirements
for area, shape, width or depth established for the district in which the lot
is located.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. Any building or structure lawfully existing on the
effective date of a zoning ordinance or amendment thereto that fails to meet
the requirements for location, height, bulk, number of stories, building
materials, percentage of lot that may be occupied, set back from lot lines,
side yards and other open space, distances from other use district and any
other requirements relating to the physical makeup and location of structures
and buildings in the district in which it is located.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any use of a structure or land lawfully existing on the
effective date of a zoning ordinance or amendment thereto that is not permitted
or does not comply with the performance standards for the use district in which
it is located.
(Prior Code, § 902.01)
§ 152.021 RESTRICTIONS ON CONTINUATION OF NON-CONFORMITIES.
   (A)   All non-conforming uses shall be required to obtain a permit from the
Zoning Administrator within 12 months from the date of enactment of this
chapter or code. The Zoning Administrator may require from the applicant for a
non-conforming use permit the following information:
      (1)   Specific type of use including the type of manufacturing process,
storage, service or other method of operation of the business enterprise,
including the type of products manufactured, processed or sold;
      (2)   The area of the lot used by the non-conforming use;
      (3)   The amount of interior floor space involved in the non-conforming
use of any structure;
      (4)   The volume of business in terms of units, transportation units per
day and hours of operation; and
      (5)   The investment in and current value of the non-conforming use
including the estimated market value on tax statements for any real property
improvements, including structure and fixtures, as well as significant
improvement involved in the non-conforming use.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, any non-conformity, including the
lawful use or occupation of land or premises existing at the time of the
enactment of this code or chapter, may be continued, including through repair,
replacement, restoration, maintenance or improvement, but not including
expansion, unless:
      (1)   The occupancy or non-conforming use is discontinued for a period of
12 months. Any further use of the structures or property shall thenceforth
conform to this chapter or code. Discontinuance of a non-conforming use shall
include voluntary destruction of non-conforming buildings, voluntary change
from a non-conforming use to a conforming use or a voluntary change from one
non-conforming use to another non-conforming use; or
      (2)   The non-conforming use is destroyed by fire or other peril to the
extent of greater than 50% of its market value, and no building permit for
repair or replacement of the structure has been applied for within 180 days of
when the property was damaged; reconstruction, rehabilitation or rebuilding of
the structures or replacement of the equipment on the site shall conform to
this Zoning Code. In the event no building permit has been applied for within
180 days of when the property is damaged, the city may impose upon a zoning or
building permit in order to mitigate any newly created impact on adjacent
property or water body.
   (C)   In the event that any non-conforming use is destroyed by fire or other
peril to the extent of greater than 50% of its market value, and no building
permit for repair or replacement of the structure has been applied for within
180 days of when the property was damaged; reconstruction, rehabilitation or
rebuilding of the structures or replacement of the equipment on the site shall
conform to this Zoning Code. In the event that the building permit has been
applied for within 180 days of when the property was damaged, the city may
impose reasonable conditions upon a building permit in order to mitigate any
newly-created impact on adjacent property.
   (D)   All non-conforming junkyards, open storage areas of waste or building
materials, or any other accumulation of materials or other use that constitutes
a nuisance under any sections of this city code shall be removed, altered or
otherwise made to conform to this chapter, and shall not have any vested right
to continue, even if the use existed prior to adoption of this code.
   (E)   Routine maintenance of a building or other structure, fixtures or
equipment, related to a lawful non-conforming use shall be permitted; provided
such maintenance is non-structural and the maintenance does not extend the
useful life or intensify the non-conforming use.
   (F)   The provisions of this division (F) do not prohibit the city from
enforcing any other ordinance or portion of the code that applies to adults-
only bookstores, adults-only theaters or similar adult-businesses, as defined
in this code.
(Prior Code, § 902.03)
ZONING PROCEDURES
§ 152.035 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby established which shall
consist of not less than five members and not more than 11, one of which may be
a member of the City Council. The members of the Commission shall be appointed
by the City Council and shall serve staggered four-year terms.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall elect a chairperson from
among its members and may create and fill such other offices as it may
determine is necessary to conduct business. The City Administrator’s office
shall provide a secretary for the purpose of taking minutes.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a regular meeting each
month and adopt rules for the transaction of business along with keeping public
records of any resolutions, transactions, findings and recommendations of the
Commission.
   (D)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall provide assistance to the
City Council and Zoning Administrator in the administration of this chapter and
the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be advisory in
nature. Specifically, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall review, hold
public hearings and make recommendations to the City Council on all
applications for zoning amendments and conditional use permit using the
criteria in §§
152.036 and
152.037.
   (E)   In the event that the members of the Planning and Zoning Commission
are less than five members, any requirement for Commission review under this
chapter shall not be required. The Zoning Administrator shall transmit the
complete application and required exhibits to the City Council for their
consideration and review at their next regularly scheduled meeting. The Mayor
may elect to call a special meeting for consideration and review. The Zoning
Administrator shall have notice of such hearing published at least once in the
legal newspaper, not less than ten days and not more than 30 days prior to said
hearing. The City Council shall take appropriate action on the request within
60 days of the Zoning Administrator’s receipt of the complete application. Any
other provisions of the applicable paragraph that is not inconsistent with
these terms shall continue to be effective.
(Prior Code, § 904.01)
§ 152.036 ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Council may adopt amendments to this chapter and the zoning map in
relation both to land uses within a particular district or to the locations of
a district line.
   (B)   Such amendments shall not be issued indiscriminately, but shall only
be used as a means to reflect changes in the goals and policies of the city as
reflected in the Comprehensive Plan or changes in conditions in the city.
      (1)   Types of amendments. The types of amendments shall be as follows:
         (a)   A change in a district’s boundary (rezoning);
         (b)   A change in a district’s regulations; or
         (c)   A change in any other provision of this chapter.
      (2)   Initiation of proceedings. Proceedings for amending this chapter
shall be initiated by at least one of the following three methods:
         (a)   By petition of an owner or owners of property which is proposed
to be rezoned, or for which district regulation changes are proposed;
         (b)   By recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission; or
         (c)   By action of the Council.
      (3)   Required exhibits to application for rezoning or district
regulation changes initiated by property owners. The required exhibits shall be
as follows:
         (a)   A preliminary building and site development plan. The Council
may also require a boundary survey of the property; or
         (b)   Evidence of ownership or enforceable option on the property if
joined in the application by the present owners.
      (4)   Procedure. The procedure for a property owner to initiate a
rezoning or district regulation change applying to this property is as follows.
         (a)   The property owner or his or her agent shall meet with the
Zoning Administrator to explain his or her situation, learn the procedures and
obtain an application form.
         (b)   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with required exhibits with the Zoning Administrator and shall pay a filing fee
as established by the Council.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall transmit the application and
required exhibits to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its consideration
and review at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
         (d)   The Zoning Administrator shall set the date for a public
hearing; provided it can be accomplished at the next regularly scheduled
Planning and Zoning Commission meeting, and shall have notices of such hearing
published in the legal newspaper at least once not less than ten days and not
more than 30 days prior to said hearing. In the event that the zoning change
affects a parcel containing five acres or less, the Zoning Administrator shall
also send written notice to all property owners within the affected zone and
within 350 feet of the outer boundaries of the property to be rezoned. The
Zoning Administrator shall use the last real estate tax role or city services
billing records to determine the names and addresses of affected property
owners. However, failure of any property owner to receive such written
notification shall not invalidate the proceedings. The City Council may waive
the mailed notice requirements for a city-wide amendment to this chapter
initiated by the Planning and Zoning Commission or the Council.
         (e)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold the public hearing
and then shall recommend to the Council within 30 days, one of three actions:
approval, denial or conditional approval.
         (f)   The Council shall act upon the application within 30 days after
receiving the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
         (g)   No application of a property owner for an amendment to the text
of this chapter or the zoning map shall be considered by the Planning and
Zoning Commission within the one year period following a denial of such
request, except the Planning and Zoning Commission may permit a new
application, if in the opinion of the Planning and Zoning Commission, new
evidence or a change in circumstances warrant it.
(Prior Code, § 904.02)
§ 152.037 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   The purpose of a conditional use is to permit a use that would not be
appropriate generally but may be allowed with appropriate restrictions upon a
finding that certain conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist, and
the use or development conforms to the Comprehensive Plan, and is compatible
with the existing area.
   (A)   General criteria for granting conditional use permits. In granting a
conditional use permit, the Council shall consider the advice and
recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Commission and the effect of the
proposed use on the Comprehensive Plan and upon the health, safety and general
welfare of occupants of surrounding lands. Among other things, the Council
shall make the following findings where applicable:
      (1)   The use will not create an excessive burden on existing parks,
schools, streets and other public facilities which serve or are proposed to
serve the area;
      (2)   The use will be sufficiently compatible or separated by distance or
screening from adjacent residentially zoned or used land so that existing homes
will not be depreciated in value and there will be no deterrence to development
of vacant land;
      (3)   The structure and site shall have an appearance that will not have
an adverse effect upon adjacent residential properties;
      (4)   The use, in the opinion of the Council, is reasonably related to
the overall needs of the city and to the existing land use;
      (5)   The use is consistent with the purposes of this chapter and the
purposes of the zoning district in which the applicant intends to locate the
proposed use;
      (6)   The use is not in conflict with the Comprehensive Plan of the city;
and
      (7)   The use will not cause traffic hazard or congestion.
   (B)   Additional conditions.
      (1)   In permitting a new conditional use or the alteration of an
existing conditional use, the Council may impose, in addition to these
standards and requirements expressly specified by this chapter, additional
conditions which the Council considers necessary to protect the best interest
of the surrounding area or the community as a whole. These conditions may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Increasing the required lot size or yard dimension;
         (b)   Limiting the height, size or location of buildings;
         (c)   Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points;
         (d)   Increasing the street width;
         (e)   Increasing the number of required off-street parking spaces;
         (f)   Limiting the number, size, location or lighting of signs;
         (g)   Requiring diking, fencing, screening, landscaping or other
facilities to protect adjacent or nearby property;
         (h)   Designating sites for open space; and
         (i)   Establishing time limits for the permit or periodic compliance
reviews.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all conditional
use permits issued including information on the use, location and conditions
imposed by the Council; time limits, review dates and such other information as
may be appropriate.
   (C)   Required exhibits for conditional use permit applications. The
following exhibits shall be required:
      (1)   A preliminary building and site development plan. The Council may
also require a boundary survey of the property; and
      (2)   Evidence of ownership or enforceable option on the property if
joined in the application by the present owners.
   (D)   Procedure. The procedure for obtaining a conditional use permit is as
follows.
      (1)   The property owner or his or her agent shall meet with the Zoning
Administrator to explain his situation, learn the procedures and obtain an
application form.
      (2)   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with required exhibits with the Zoning Administrator and shall pay a filing fee
as established by the Council.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall transmit the application and
required exhibits to the Planning and Zoning Commission for their consideration
and review at their next regularly scheduled meeting.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall set the date for a public hearing
and shall have notice of such hearing published at least once in the legal
newspaper, not less than ten days and not more than 30 days prior to said
hearing.
      (5)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold the public hearing
and then shall study the application to determine possible adverse effects of
the proposed conditional use and to determine what additional requirements may
be necessary to reduce such adverse effects and recommend one of three actions
to the Council within 30 days after holding the public hearing: approval,
denial or conditional approval.
      (6)   The Council shall take appropriate action on the request for a
conditional use permit within 30 days of receiving the recommendations by the
Planning and Zoning Commission. If it grants the conditional use permit, the
Council may impose conditions (including time limits) it considers necessary to
protect the public health, safety and welfare and such conditions may include a
time limit for the use to exist or operate.
      (7)   Where a conditional use permit has been issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, such permit shall become null and void without
further action by the Planning and Zoning Commission or the Council unless work
thereon commences within six months of the date granting such conditional use.
The conditional use permit shall not be assignable. A conditional use permit
shall be deemed to authorize only one particular use and shall expire if that
use shall cease for more than six consecutive months.
      (8)   In the event that the applicant violates any of the conditions set
forth in this chapter, the Council shall have the authority to revoke the
conditional use permit.
      (9)   No application of a property owner for a conditional use shall be
considered by the Planning and Zoning Commission within a one-year period
following a denial for such a request, except the Planning and Zoning
Commission may permit a new application if in its opinion new evidence or a
change in circumstances warrant it.
(Prior Code, § 904.03)
§ 152.038 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Criteria for granting variances. A variance to the provisions of this
chapter may be issued by the City Council acting as the Board of Adjustment to
provide relief to the landowner in those cases where this chapter imposes undue
hardship or practical difficulties to the property owner in the use of this
land. No use variances may be issued. A variance may be granted only in the
event that all the following circumstances exist:
      (1)   Exceptional or extraordinary circumstances apply to the properties
which do not apply generally to other properties in the same zone or vicinity
and result from lot size or shape, topography or other circumstances over which
the owners of property, since the effective date of this chapter, have had no
control;
      (2)   The literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this chapter;
      (3)   The special conditions or circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant;
      (4)   The granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to owners of
other lands, structures or buildings in the same district;
      (5)   The variance requested is the minimum variance which would
alleviate the hardship. Economic conditions alone shall not be considered a
hardship; and
      (6)   The City Council, acting as the Board of Adjustment, may impose
such restrictions and conditions upon the premises benefited by a variance as
may be necessary to comply with the standards established by this chapter, or
to reduce or minimize the effects of such variance upon other properties in the
neighborhood, and to better carry out the intent of the variance. No variance
shall permit a lower degree of flood protection than the regulatory flood
protection elevation for the particular area or permit standards lower than
those required by federal, state or local law.
   (B)   Required exhibits for variance applications. The following exhibits
shall be required:
      (1)   A preliminary building and site development plan. The Planning and
Zoning Commission or the City Council may also require a boundary survey of the
property; and
      (2)   Evidence of ownership or enforceable option on the property.
   (C)   Procedures. The procedures for obtaining a variance from the
regulations of this chapter are as follows.
      (1)   The property owner or his or her agent shall meet with the Zoning
Administrator to explain his or her situation, learn the procedures and obtain
an application.
      (2)   The applicant shall file the completed application form, together
with required exhibits, with the Zoning Administrator and shall pay a filing
fee as established by the City Council.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall transmit the application to the City
Council, acting as the Board of Adjustment and Planning and Zoning Commission
for review and shall notify all property owners within 350 feet of the outer
boundaries of the property in question; provided however, failure of any
property owner to receive such notification shall not invalidate the
proceedings.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall set the date for a public hearing
and shall have notice of such hearing published at least once in the legal
newspaper, not less than ten days and not more than 30 days prior to the
hearing.
      (5)   The City Council, acting as the Board of Adjustment, and Planning
and Zoning Commission shall hold a public hearing, jointly, on the proposed
variance and shall make a recommendation of one of three actions: approval,
denial or conditional approval.
      (6)   The City Council, acting as the Board of Adjustment, within 60 days
of the city’s receipt of a complete application shall render a decision
(approval, denial or conditional approval) and notify the applicant.
      (7)   No application by a property owner for a variance shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator within a six-month period following a
denial of such a request, except the Board may permit a new application, if in
the opinion of the Commission, new evidence or change of circumstances warrants
it.
      (8)   All appeals from the decision relating to variance shall be
presented to the City Council, acting as the Board of adjustments within 30
days of the action.
(Prior Code, § 904.04)
§ 152.039 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcing officer. It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to
cause the provisions of this chapter to be enforced through the proper legal
channels.
      (1)   Hereinafter, it is unlawful for any person to construct or move any
kind of structure or building or part thereof including decks without first
securing a zoning permit therefore.
      (2)   Applications for zoning permits shall be accompanied by the
following exhibits unless waived by the Zoning Administrator:
         (a)   Evidence of ownership of the property by applicant;
         (b)   The exact legal description of the property (from abstract or
deed);
         (c)   A drawing or sketch of an area including the property in
question up to 100 feet beyond its outer boundaries or adjacent building,
whichever is closer, showing existing utilities, lot boundaries and dimension,
buildings, easements, foliage, and topography and waterways if pertinent; and
         (d)   County, state or federal permits, if required.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Persons requesting a zoning permit shall fill out a building permit
form available from the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Completed zoning permit forms and a fee as may be established by
resolution of the Council shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator. If
the proposed development conforms in all respects to this chapter, a zoning
permit shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator within a period of 30 days.
      (3)   If the proposed development involves a zoning amendment, variance
or conditional use permit, the application shall be submitted to the Planning
and Zoning Commission or Board of Adjustment (City Council) for review and
appropriate action according to the procedures set forth in this code.
(Prior Code, § 904.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 152.050 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this section are to:
   (A)   Encourage a more creative and efficient development of land and its
improvements than is possible under the more restrictive application of zoning
requirements such as lot sizes and building setbacks, while at the same time
meeting the standards and purposes of the Comprehensive Plan and preserving the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens;
   (B)   Allow for a mixture of residential units in an integrated and well-
planned area; and
   (C)   Ensure concentration of open space into more useable areas, and the
preservation of the natural resources of the site including wetlands, woodland,
steep slopes and scenic areas.
(Prior Code, § 905.01)
§ 152.051 PERMITTED USES.
   Dwelling units in detached, clustered, semi-detached, attached or multi-
storied structures or combination thereof shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 905.02)
§ 152.052 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   A conditional use permit shall be required of all planned unit developments.
The city may approve the planned unit development only if it finds that the
development satisfies all the following standards in addition to meeting the
general use requirements for the district in which it is located:
   (A)   The planned unit development is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan
of the city;
   (B)   The planned unit development is an effective and unified treatment of
the development possibilities in the project site and the development plan
provides for the preservation of unique natural amenities such as streams,
stream banks, wooded cover, rough terrain and similar areas;
   (C)   The planned unit development can be planned and developed to harmonize
with any existing or proposed development in the areas surrounding the project
site;’
   (D)   Financing is available to the applicant on conditions and in an amount
which is sufficient to assure completion of the planned unit development;
   (E)   A minimum of five or more principal structures are proposed;
   (F)   The tract under consideration is under single control; and
   (G)   The tract is at least two acres in size.
(Prior Code, § 905.03)
§ 152.053 COORDINATION WITH SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter that subdivision review under the
subdivision regulations be carried out simultaneously with the review of a
planned development under this section.
   (B)   The plans required under this section must be submitted in a form
which will satisfy the requirements of the subdivision regulations for the
preliminary and final plans required under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 905.04)
§ 152.054 PRE-APPLICATION MEETING.
   Prior to the submission of any plan to the Planning and Zoning Commission,
the applicant shall meet with the Zoning Administrator, and if necessary, with
the Planning and Zoning Commission to discuss the contemplated project relative
to community development objectives for the area in question and to learn the
procedural steps for a conditional use permit and a preliminary plat. The
applicant may submit a simple sketch plan at this stage for informal review and
discussion. The applicant is urged to avail himself or herself of the advice
and assistance of the planning staff to facilitate the review of the outline
plan and preliminary plat.
(Prior Code, § 905.05)
§ 152.055 PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   An applicant shall make an application for a conditional use permit
following the procedural steps as set forth in §
152.037.
   (B)   In addition to the criteria and standards set forth in §
152.037 for granting of the conditional use permits, the following additional
findings shall be made before the approval of the outline development plan:
      (1)   The proposed planned unit development is in conformance with the
Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   The uses proposed will not have an undue and adverse impact on the
reasonable enjoyment of neighboring property and will not be detrimental to
potential surrounding uses;
      (3)   Each phase of the proposed development, as it is proposed to be
completed, is of sufficient size, composition and arrangement that its
construction, marketing and operation of dwelling units and common open space
are balanced and coordinated;
      (4)   The planned unit development will not create an excessive burden on
parks, schools, streets and other public facilities and utilities which are
proposed to serve the district; and
      (5)   The proposed total development is designed in such a manner as to
form a desirable and unified environment within its own boundaries.
   (C)   Preliminary development plan documentation. The following exhibits
shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator by the proposed developer as
part of the application of a conditional use permit:
      (1)   An explanation of the character and need for the planned
development and the manner in which it has been planned to take advantage of
the planned development regulations;
      (2)   A statement of proposed financing of the planned unit development;
      (3)   A statement of the present ownership of all the land included
within the planned development and a list of property owners within 350 feet of
the outer boundaries of the property;
      (4)   A general indication of the expected schedule of development
including sequential phasing and time schedules;
      (5)   A map giving the legal description of the property including
approximate total acreage and also indicating existing property lines and
dimensions, ownership of all parcels, platting, easement, street rights-of-way,
utilities and buildings for the property, and for the area 350 feet beyond;
      (6)   Natural features map or maps of the property and area 350 feet
beyond showing contour lines at no more than two-foot intervals, drainage
patterns, wetlands, vegetation, soil and subsoil condition;
      (7)   A map indicating proposed land uses including housing units and
types, vehicular and pedestrian circulation, and open space uses; and
      (8)   Full description as to how all necessary governmental services will
be provided to the development including sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water
system, streets and other public utilities.
   (D)   Preliminary plat. The applicant shall also submit a preliminary plat
and all the necessary documentation as required under the subdivision
regulations of all or that portion of the project to be platted. For purposes
of administrative simplification, the public hearings required for the
conditional use permit and preliminary plat may be combined into one hearing or
may be held concurrently.
(Prior Code, § 905.06)
§ 152.056 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Within 90 days following the approval of the preliminary development
plan with recommended modifications, if any, and the preliminary plat, the
applicant shall file with the Zoning Administrator a final development plan
containing in final form the information required in the preliminary
development plan plus any changes recommended by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the Council as a result of the public hearing. The applicant
shall also submit a final plat for all or that portion to be platted.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall submit a final development plan and the
final plat to the Planning and Zoning Commission and other applicable agencies
for review.
   (C)   The final development plan and the final plat shall conform to the
preliminary development plan and preliminary plat plus any recommended changes
by the Planning and Zoning Commission or the Council to the general development
plan and preliminary plat.
   (D)   If the final development plan is approved by the Council, the Zoning
Administrator shall issue a conditional use permit to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 905.07)
§ 152.057 ENFORCING DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE.
   The construction and provisions of all of the common open spaces and public
and recreational facilities which are shown on the final development plan must
proceed at the same rate as the construction of dwelling units. At least once
every six months following the approval of the final development plan, the
Zoning Administrator shall review all of the building permits issued for the
planned development and examine the construction which has taken place on the
site. If he or she shall find that the rate of construction of dwelling units
is faster than the rate at which common open spaces and public and recreational
facilities have been constructed and provided, he or she shall forward this
information to the Council, which may revoke the conditional use permit. If the
developer or landowners fail to complete the open spaces and recreation areas
within 60 days after the completion of the reminder of the project, the city
may finish the open space areas and assess the cost back to the developer or
landowner.
(Prior Code, § 905.08)
§ 152.058 CONVEYANCE AND MAINTENANCE OF COMMON OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   All land shown on the final development plan as common open space must
be conveyed under one of the following methods at the option of the city:
      (1)   It may be conveyed to a public agency which will agree to maintain
the common open space and any buildings, structures or improvements which have
been placed on it; or
      (2)   It may be conveyed to trustees provided in an indenture
establishing an association or similar organization for the maintenance of the
planned development. The common open spaces must be conveyed to the trustees
subject to covenants to be approved by the Council which restrict common open
space to the uses specified on the final development plan, and which provide
for the maintenance of the common open space in a manner which assures its
continuing use for its intended purpose.
   (B)   If the common open space is conveyed to a homeowner’s association, and
the common open space is not maintained properly to standards established by
the city, the city shall have the authority to maintain the property and assess
the costs back to the homeowner’s association.
(Prior Code, § 905.09)
§ 152.059 STANDARDS FOR COMMON OR PUBLIC OPEN SPACES.
   No open area may be accepted as common open space under the provisions of
this chapter unless it meets the following standard.
   (A)   The location, shape, size and character of the common open space must
be suitable for the planned development.
   (B)   Common open space must be used for amenity or recreational purposes.
The uses authorized for the common open space must be appropriate to the scale
and character of the planned development, considering its size, density,
expected population, topography and the number and type of dwellings to be
provided.
   (C)   Common open space must be suitably improved for its intended use, but
common open space containing natural features worthy of preservation may be
left unimproved. The buildings, structures and improvements which are permitted
in the common open spaces must be appropriate to the uses which are authorized
for the common open spaces and must converse and enhance the amenities of the
common open space having regarding to its topography and unimproved condition.
(Prior Code, § 905.10)
§ 152.060 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT REVIEW AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Annual review. The Zoning Administrator and Planning and Zoning
Commission shall review all planned unit development ’s within the city at
least once each year and shall make a report to the Council on the status of
the development in each of the planned unit development districts. If the
Council finds that the development has not occurred within a reasonable time
after the original approval of the conditional use for the planned unit
development, the Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend that the city
revoke the conditional use permit as set forth in §
152.037.
   (B)   Revision to the planned unit development.
      (1)   Minor changes in the location, placement and heights of buildings
or structures may be authorized by the Zoning Administrator if required by
engineering or other circumstances not foreseen at the time the final plan was
approved.
      (2)   Approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Council
shall be required for other minor changes such as rearrangement of lots, blocks
and building tracts. These changes shall be consistent with the purpose and
intent of the approved final development plan.
   (C)   Amendments to the planned unit development. Any amendment to the
planned unit development shall require the same procedures as an application
for a conditional use permit as set forth in §
152.037.
(Prior Code, § 905.11)
R-A AGRICULTURE-RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 152.075 PURPOSE.
   R-A Agriculture-Residence District is intended for transition from previous
agricultural uses to residential uses; provided the development is compatible
with the Comprehensive Plan and capital improvements plan to ensure that
municipal utilities are available at a reasonable cost.
(Prior Code, § 906.01)
§ 152.076 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses in the R-A Agriculture-Residence District:
   (A)   Single-family residences which are either a part of the previous
agricultural use or as a part of a residential development following minimum
plat approval requirements by the city but only if they are reasonably
accessible by existing public utilities or the extension of public utilities
and streets are paid for by the developer prior to plot approval or pursuant to
developers agreement approved by the city;
   (B)   Agricultural farming and truck gardening operations; provided no new
feed lots, or confinement buildings for either animals or poultry are included;
   (C)   Churches, libraries, museums, schools, public buildings, water supply
facilities and cemeteries; provided that no building shall be located closer
than 50 feet from the nearest lot line of any lot in an R-1 Residence District;
   (D)   Parks and recreational areas;
   (E)   Public or private golf courses, miniature golf courses and driving
ranges (all buildings shall be conditional uses, including, but not limited to,
pump houses, club houses, parking lots for golf course use and the like);
   (F)   Nurseries and greenhouses for growing plants;
   (G)   Hospitals, clinics, sanatoriums, group homes, nursing and convalescent
homes; and
   (H)   Public or private orchards, forest or wildlife preservations or
conservation project areas; provided any wildlife reservation not include a new
feed lot area or confinement building.
(Prior Code, § 906.02)
§ 152.077 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses in the R-A Agriculture-Residence
District:
   (A)   Municipal service buildings such as pump houses, reservoirs, elevated
water storage tanks, wells or similar essential public utility and service
structures;
   (B)   Golf course club houses, public swimming pools, police and fire
stations, administration buildings, forest offices or other public buildings;
provided that no such building shall be located within 50 feet of any lot in a
residential district;
   (C)   Duplexes or multi-family housing; provided they are consistent with
the Comprehensive Plan and are adjacent to existing residential areas and have
access to existing utilities;
   (D)   Planned unit developments, town houses, cluster developments,
condominiums or other multiple-family housing; provided they are in conformity
with the Comprehensive Plan and can be completed at no additional cost to the
city for essential utilities such as street extensions, extensions of storm
sewer, sanitary sewer and water; such uses must also be adjacent to either
existing residential development or recreational use areas; and
   (E)   Parking lots to be used for uses otherwise permitted in the R-
A District; provided they provide adequate protection to adjacent residential
districts by providing screening by trees or shrubbery; that all lighting
either be restricted in residential areas to hours no later than 10:00 p.m. or
have such protective screening and direction of lighting so as not to interfere
with nighttime enjoyment of adjoining residential areas, provide for reasonable
noise reduction, have a dust free surface, have adequate provision for deposit
and removal of litter, and are designed for both ingress and egress in a manner
not to increase traffic safety hazards at already sensitive traffic areas.
(Prior Code, § 906.03)
§ 152.078 HEIGHT, YARD AND LOT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. No structure shall exceed two and one-half stories
or 30 feet in height, except that church spires, belfries, domes which do not
contain useable space and chimneys may be of any height which does not conflict
with airport requirements.
   (B)   Front yard regulations.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet, except that in a block where two or more residences have been erected
facing the same street, the setback for remaining lots in that block fronting
on the same street shall be determined by the average setback of existing
buildings.
      (2)   There shall be a front yard on each street side of each corner lot
except that for corner lots of record at the date of this chapter, the front
yard on the side street side may be reduced to a depth of not less than 15
feet.
   (C)   Side yard regulations. Each lot shall have two side yards, each such
yard having a width of not less than 10% of lot width.
   (D)   Rear yard regulations. Each lot shall have an unoccupied rear yard
having a depth of not less than 40 feet, except that accessory buildings and
uses as stipulated are allowed but shall be set back at least five feet from
side or rear yard lines:
      (1)   Private garages and carports; and
      (2)   Private swimming pools when completely enclosed within a chain-link
or similar fence five feet high, measured from the level of deck or top of pool
sides and equipped with locking gates.
   (E)   General yard regulations.
      (1)   Cornices, canopies and eaves may extend into a required yard at a
distance not exceeding two feet, six inches. Fire escapes may extend into a
required front or rear yard a distance of not exceeding four feet, six inches.
      (2)   A landing place or uncovered porch may extend into a required front
yard a distance not exceeding six feet if the landing place or porch has its
floor no higher than the entrance floor of the building. An open railing no
higher than three feet, six inches may be placed around such structure.
      (3)   A wall, fence or hedge may occupy part of a required yard; provided
they are set back at least 15 feet from the street curb, and on corner lots,
there shall be a triangular area formed by the property lines of intersecting
streets, intersecting alleys and streets, and a line joining points on said
lines 25 feet distant from said intersection, in which area there shall be no
wall, fence or hedge, and trees shall be trimmed to prevent blind
intersections.
      (4)   On double frontage lots, the required front yard shall be provided
on both streets.
   (F)   Lot size regulations.
      (1)   Every lot on which a one-family dwelling is erected shall contain
an area of not less than two and one-half acres.
      (2)   The lot area, width and depth regulations of this division (F),
shall not apply to lots recorded prior to the adoption of this chapter.
However, such lots shall not be altered in any way which would further reduce
their dimensions below the minimum requirements of this division (F), and no
lot in conformance with the provisions of this section shall be reduced or
resubdivided to produce a lot not in full conformance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 906.04)
§ 152.079 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   One off-street parking space shall be provided for each dwelling unit
on the premises, exclusive of required yards.
   (B)   Off-street parking shall be provided on the premises, exclusive of
required yards, for uses as follows:
      (1)   Churches: one parking space for each four seated occupants, based
on the design capacity of the main seating area, existing churches excluded;
      (2)   Elementary school: two parking spaces for each classroom;
      (3)   Junior and senior high school: one parking space for each classroom
plus one parking space for each ten students, based on design capacity;
      (4)   Offices of professional persons: one parking space for each
professional person;
      (5)   Hospitals: one parking space for each three beds; convalescent or
nursing home: one parking space for each four beds; and
      (6)   Mobile home: two parking spaces for each mobile home unit.
(Prior Code, § 906.05)
§ 152.080 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No sign shall be allowed except homeowner family name identification
signs, real estate sale or lease signs, rummage sale signs, temporary signs
which are removed within seven days of original placement, political signs,
traffic regulatory or safety signs, emergency signs, signs denoting government
or municipal facilities or establishments, or multiple-family or religious
facility signs as regulated in this section.
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings may have one wall sign per building not to
exceed ten square feet in area, or one freestanding sign, not to exceed 20
square feet in area or ten feet in height from the landscaped ground level.
   (C)   Churches, synagogues and temples may have one freestanding sign with
the sign area not to exceed 36 square feet. The sign shall not extend more than
ten feet above ground level. Each facility may also have wall lettering
identifying the denomination or type of public facility over an area not to
exceed 25% of the surface area of the wall on which the lettering is placed.
Crosses or other religious symbols shall not be included in calculating the
maximum area of the lettering.
(Prior Code, § 906.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Signs generally, see §§
152.205 through
152.210
R-1 ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
§ 152.095 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses in the R-1 One- and Two-Family Residence
Districts:
   (A)   Single-family homes;
   (B)   Duplexes;
   (C)   Public parks, playgrounds, swimming pools and bike or jogging paths or
trails;
   (D)   Public utility buildings serving residential area (i.e., water towers,
pump houses, lift stations, telephone, switching buildings and the like); and
   (E)   Accessory non-residing secondary structure uses necessary to conduct
above-described permitted uses, including garages, swimming pools, yard (see
rear yard regulations) and playground equipment, and storage buildings. All
accessory use improvements must be compatible with adjacent residential
development and must be rodent-proof. All garages must be of a frame structure,
have a cement floor with a permanent foundation and must be compatible with the
existing adjacent residential development. Pole-type buildings shall be sided
in a manner consistent with the primary structure. Pole-type structures must be
constructed of new material (no recycled, old or previous building materials)
consisting of vinyl or steel siding and shingles or steel roofing in a manner
consistent with the primary structure with a height no taller than the primary
structure.
(Prior Code, § 907.01)
§ 152.096 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses in the R-1 One- and Two-Family Residence
Districts:
   (A)   Apartment buildings (multi-family);
   (B)   Cemeteries and funeral homes;
   (C)   Home occupations subject to specific performance standards;
   (D)   City buildings;
   (E)   Nursing homes and clinics;
   (F)   Planned unit developments;
   (G)   Bed and breakfasts;
   (H)   Churches and schools;
   (I)   Zero lot line homes with either detached or common walls; and
   (J)   Licensed day care facilities.
(Prior Code, § 907.02)
§ 152.097 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR CONDITIONAL USES IN GENERAL.
   (A)   All conditional uses shall meet specific performance standards found
by the City Council to be necessary to adequately protect adjacent residential
areas from noise, odor, glare of exterior lighting, vibration, smoke, dust,
fumes and gases without odor.
   (B)   All uses shall make adequate provision for increased storm water
diversion using natural drainage areas pursuant to ten-year flood capacity.
   (C)   Conditions of each permit shall address traffic burdens and access
points on adjacent streets.
   (D)   No conditional use shall unduly contribute to additional litter or
garbage which may blow or wash on to adjacent residential areas.
   (E)   All pets must conform to other ordinance regulations for cats, dogs
and the like. No sheep, cattle, hogs, goats, poultry or llamas shall be
considered household pets. No exotic animals such as tigers, lions and the
like, regardless of age shall be considered as pets. Poultry, reptiles and foul
in general must be housed indoors only to be considered household pets.
(Prior Code, § 907.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.098 GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR CONDITIONAL USES.
   All conditional uses may be subject to specific time periods which are
renewable annually or at the end of the specific period stated in the permit to
ensure compliance with the performance standards.
(Prior Code, § 907.04)
§ 152.099 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Home occupations. All home occupants shall avoid the above-described
general nuisance problems prohibited by the general performance standards. In
addition, all home occupations shall be undetectable outside of the home from
adjacent residential areas, and in addition, shall not create any electrical
interference with radio, television or other transmissions ordinarily enjoyed
in a single-family home. The home occupation may provide for a separate outside
entrance; provided it is compatible with entrances for a single-family home in
the area. No trucks delivering or parked on the premises shall be greater than
five-ton capacity unless such parked vehicles are stored completely within a
garage compatible with the adjacent residential development.
   (B)   Bed and breakfasts. There shall be no lighted signs visible after 10:
00 p.m. from areas off of the sidewall immediately in front of the residence
and no lighted signs in general outside of the principal residence itself.
There shall be no parking lot greater than usual off-street parking
requirements for residential areas. The design of the structure and any
improvements thereto to accommodate the bed and breakfast use shall be
compatible with existing adjacent residential buildings. Any general
advertising sign to be placed on the front lawn or side of the residence itself
shall be a conditional use permit in and of itself and shall be determined
under the circumstances in character of the area at the time of application for
the conditional use permit.
   (C)   Earth-sheltered homes. All earth-sheltered homes shall be reasonably
compatible in design and structure to existing adjacent residential
development.
(Prior Code, § 907.05)
§ 152.100 HEIGHT, YARD AND LOT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. No structure shall exceed two and one-half stories
or 30 feet in height, except that church spires, belfries and domes which do
not contain useable space, and chimneys may be of any height which does not
conflict with airport requirements.
   (B)   Front yard regulations.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet, except that in a block where two or more residences have been erected
facing the same street, the setback for remaining lots in that block, fronting
on the same street, shall be determined by the average setback of existing
buildings.
      (2)   There shall be a front yard on each street side of each corner lot,
except that the buildable width of such lot shall not be reduced below 60% of
the total lot width.
   (C)   Side yard regulations. Each lot shall have two side yards of not less
than ten feet.
   (D)   Rear yard regulations. Each lot shall have an unoccupied rear yard
having a depth of not less than 40 feet, except that accessory buildings and
uses as stipulated are allowed but shall be set back at least five feet from
side or rear lines:
      (1)   Private garages and carports; and
      (2)   Private swimming pools when completely enclosed within a chain link
or similar fence five feet high, measured from the level of deck or top of pool
sides and equipped with locking gates.
   (E)   General yard regulations.
      (1)   Cornices, canopies and eaves cannot extend more than two feet, six
inches into a required yard.
      (2)   Fire escapes may extend into a required front or rear yard a
distance of not exceeding four feet, six inches.
      (3)   A landing place or uncovered porch may extend into a required front
yard a distance not exceeding six feet if the landing place or porch has its
floor no higher than the entrance floor of the building. An open railing no
higher than three feet, six inches may be placed around such structure.
      (4)   A wall, fence or hedge may occupy part of a required yard; provided
they are set back at least 15 feet from the street curb, and on corner lots,
there shall be a triangular area formed by the property lines of intersecting
streets, intersecting alleys and streets, and a line joining points on said
lines 25 feet distant from said intersection, in which area there shall be no
wall, fence or hedge and trees shall be trimmed to prevent blind intersections.
      (5)   No fences are allowed in front yards. No fences over six feet tall
are allowed in back and side yards.
      (6)   On double frontage lots, the required front yard shall be provided
on both streets.
   (F)   Lot size regulations.
      (1)   Every lot on which a one- or two-family dwelling is erected shall
have a minimum area of 8,000 square feet. For lots on which three or four
family dwellings are erected, 2,000 additional square feet shall be provided
for each dwelling unit in excess of two.
      (2)   Every lot on which a one- or two-family dwelling erected shall have
a minimum width of 80 feet except on irregular lots, line of construction to
start at 80-foot width. All corner lots shall have a minimum width of 100 feet.
      (3)   Every lot on which a one- or two-family dwelling is erected shall
have a minimum depth of 100 feet.
(Prior Code, § 907.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.101 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit
on the premises, exclusive of required yards.
   (B)   Off-street parking shall be provided on the premises, exclusive of
required yards, for uses as follows:
      (1)   Churches: one parking space for each four seated occupants, based
on the design capacity of the main seating area, existing churches excluded;
      (2)   Elementary school: two parking spaces for each classroom;
      (3)   Junior and senior high school: one parking space for each classroom
plus one parking space for each ten students, based on design capacity;
      (4)   Offices of professional persons: one parking space for each
professional person;
      (5)   Hospitals: one parking space for each three beds; convalescent or
nursing home: one parking space for each four beds; and
      (6)   Mobile home: two parking spaces for each mobile home unit.
(Prior Code, § 907.07)
§ 152.102 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No sign shall be allowed except homeowner family name identification
signs, real estate sale or lease signs, rummage sale signs, temporary signs
which are removed within seven days of original placement, political signs,
traffic regulatory or safety signs, emergency signs, signs denoting government
or municipal facilities or establishments, or multiple-family or religious
facility signs as regulated below herein.
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings may have one wall sign per building not to
exceed ten square feet in area, or one freestanding sign, not to exceed 20
square feet in area or ten feet in height from the landscaped ground level.
   (C)   Churches, synagogues and temples may have one freestanding sign with
the sign area not to exceed 36 square feet. The sign shall not extend more than
ten feet above ground level. Each facility may also have wall lettering
identifying the denomination or type of public facility over an area not to
exceed 25% of the surface area of the wall on which the lettering is placed.
Crosses or other religious symbols shall not be included in calculating the
maximum area of the lettering.
(Prior Code, § 907.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Signs generally, see §§
152.205 through
152.210
R-2 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.115 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses in the R-2 Multi-Family Residential
District:
   (A)   Duplexes;
   (B)   Townhouses;
   (C)   Apartments;
   (D)   Condominiums;
   (E)   Public recreation including parks and playgrounds; and
   (F)   Essential services, including telephone, telegraph and power lines and
necessary appurtenant equipment and structures.
(Prior Code, § 908.01)
§ 152.116 ACCESSORY USES FOR ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY HOMES.
   Accessory uses are necessary to conduct above-described permitted uses,
including garages, swimming pools, yards, playground equipment, storage
buildings and facilities for housing pets outside of the principal residence.
(All accessory use improvements must be compatible with adjacent residential
development and must be rodent-proof.) All garages must be of a frame
structure, have a cement floor with a permanent foundation and must be
compatible with the existing adjacent residential development. Pole-type
buildings shall be sided in a manner consistent with the primary structure.
Pole-type structures must be constructed of new material (no recycled, old or
previous building materials) consisting of vinyl or steel siding and shingles
or steel roofing in a manner consistent with the primary structure with a
height no taller than the primary structure.
(Prior Code, § 908.02)
§ 152.117 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses in the R-2 Multi-Family Residential
District:
   (A)   Single-family residential units;
   (B)   Cemeteries, memorial gardens and funeral homes;
   (C)   Boarding or rental of rooms with a maximum of one roomer per unit;
   (D)   Group homes (as defined in the state statutes); provided sufficient
supervision and other safeguards are provided to prevent danger to neighboring
persons and property and occupants themselves from traffic hazards and the
like;
   (E)   Funeral homes;
   (F)   Planned unit developments;
   (G)   Nursing homes, hospitals and sanitarium;
   (H)   Manufactured/mobile home parks (subject to all of the criteria
specifically addressed in the mobile home section of this chapter);
   (I)   Zero lot line homes with either detached or common walls;
   (J)   Churches;
   (K)   Public and parochial schools;
   (L)   Day care facilities;
   (M)   Home occupations;
   (N)   Bed and breakfasts;
   (O)   Earth-sheltered homes (as defined in the state statutes); and
   (P)   Accessory uses for multiple-family buildings, including, but not
limited to, private garages, swimming pools and storage buildings for use of
the occupants of the multi-family structure.
(Prior Code, § 908.03)
§ 152.118 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR CONDITIONAL USES IN GENERAL.
   (A)   All conditional uses shall meet specific performance standards found
by the City Council to be necessary to adequately protect adjacent residential
areas from noise, odor, glare of exterior lighting, vibration, smoke, dust,
fumes and gases without odor.
   (B)   All uses shall make adequate provision for increased storm water
diversion using natural drainage areas pursuant to ten-year flood capacity.
   (C)   Conditions of each permit shall address traffic burdens and access
points on adjacent streets.
   (D)   No conditional use shall unduly contribute to additional litter or
garbage which may blow or wash on to adjacent residential areas.
   (E)   All pets must conform to other ordinance regulations for cats, dogs
and the like. No sheep, cattle, hogs, goats, poultry or llamas shall be
considered household pets. No exotic animals such as tigers, lions and the
like, regardless of age shall be considered as pets. Poultry, reptiles and foul
in general must be housed indoors only to be considered household pets.
(Prior Code, § 908.04)
§ 152.119 GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR CONDITIONAL USES.
   All conditional uses may be subject to specific time periods which are
renewable annually or at the end of the specific period stated in the permit to
ensure compliance with the performance standards.
(Prior Code, § 908.05)
§ 152.120 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Home occupations. All home occupants shall avoid the general nuisance
problems prohibited in §
152.119 by the general performance standards. In addition, all home occupations
shall be undetectable outside of the home from adjacent residential areas, and
in addition shall not create any electrical interference with radio, television
or other transmissions ordinarily enjoyed in a single-family home. The home
occupation may provide for a separate outside entrance; provided it is
compatible with entrances for a single-family home in the area. No trucks
delivering or parked on the premises shall be greater than a five-ton capacity
unless such parked vehicles are stored completely within a garage compatible
with the adjacent residential development.
   (B)   Bed and breakfast. There shall be no lighted signs visible after 10:00
p.m. from areas off of the sidewall immediately in front of the residence and
no lighted signs in general outside of the principal residence itself. There
shall be no parking lot greater than usual off-street parking requirements for
residential areas. The design of the structure and any improvements thereto to
accommodate the bed and breakfast use shall be compatible with existing
adjacent residential buildings. Any general advertising sign to be placed on
the front lawn or side of the residence itself shall be a conditional use
permit in and of itself and shall be determined under the circumstances in
character of the area at the time of application for the conditional use
permit.
   (C)   Earth-sheltered homes. All earth-sheltered homes shall be reasonably
compatible in design and structure to existing adjacent residential
development.
(Prior Code, § 908.06)
§ 152.121 HEIGHT, YARD AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. Structures shall not exceed four stories or 45
feet in height, except that church spires, belfries, domes which do not contain
useable space, water towers, chimneys or smoke stacks, cooling towers and
elevated penthouses may be erected with no height limitations except airport
requirements.
   (B)   Front yard regulations.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet, except that for any building exceeding three stories in height, there
shall be an additional front yard setback one foot for each foot the building
exceeds the height of 30 feet.
      (2)   There shall be a front yard on each street side of a corner lot.
   (C)   Side yard regulations.
      (1)   For one- and two-family dwellings and their accessory buildings,
each lot shall have two side yards, each such yard having a width of not less
than 15 feet or 10% of lot width, whichever is less.
      (2)   For other buildings not exceeding three stories in height, there
shall be two side yards, each such yard having a width of not less than 15
feet.
      (3)   For buildings exceeding three stories in height, there shall be two
side yards and a back yard, each having a width of 15 feet, plus one foot for
each one foot of building height over 30 feet.
   (D)   Rear yard regulations. Each lot shall have an unoccupied rear yard
having a depth of not less than 40 feet, except that accessory buildings and
uses as stipulated are allowed but shall be set back at least five feet from
rear lot lines:
      (1)   Private garages and carports; and
      (2)   Private swimming pools when completely enclosed within a chain-link
or similar fence five feet high, measured from the level of deck or top of pool
sides, and equipped with locking gates.
   (E)   General yard regulations.
      (1)   Cornices, canopies and eaves cannot extend more than two feet, six
inches into a required yard.
      (2)   Fire escapes may extend into a required front or rear yard a
distance of not exceeding four feet, six inches.
      (3)   A landing place or uncovered porch may extend into a required front
yard a distance not exceeding six feet if the landing place or porch has its
floor no higher than the entrance floor of the building. An open railing no
higher than three, feet six inches may be placed around such structure.
      (4)   No fences are allowed in front yards. No fences over six feet tall
are allowed in back and side yards.
      (5)   On double frontage lots, the required front yard shall be provided
on both streets.
   (F)   Lot size regulations.
      (1)   The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall not be less than 2,000
square feet, except the public housing for the elderly projects and privately-
sponsored private housing for the elderly projects built and occupied to the
same standards, require only 1,000 square feet per dwelling unit.
      (2)   The minimum total lot area for a multiple dwelling structure shall
not be less than 10,000 square feet.
      (3)   A lot for a multiple dwelling structure shall have a width of not
less than 80 feet and a depth of not less than 125 feet. All corner lots shall
have a minimum width of 100 feet.
      (4)   Not more than 35% of a lot or plot shall be occupied by buildings.
(Prior Code, § 908.07)
§ 152.122 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   Off-street parking shall be provided on the premises, exclusive of required
yards, for uses as follows:
   (A)   Apartments: one and one-half parking spaces for each apartment, except
housing for the elderly projects, which shall provide three-tenths parking
space for each dwelling unit; and
   (B)   Off-street parking shall be provided on the premises, exclusive of
required yards, for uses as follows:
      (1)   Churches: one parking space for each four seated occupants, based
on the design capacity of the main seating area; existing churches excluded;
      (2)   Elementary school: two parking spaces for each classroom;
      (3)   Junior and senior high school: one parking space for each classroom
plus one parking space for each ten students, based on design capacity;
      (4)   Offices of professional persons: one parking space for each
professional person;
      (5)   Hospitals: one parking space for each three beds; convalescent or
nursing home: one parking space for each four beds; and
      (6)   Mobile home: two parking spaces for each mobile home unit.
(Prior Code, § 908.08)
§ 152.123 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No sign shall be allowed except homeowner family name identification
signs, real estate sale or lease signs, rummage sale signs, temporary signs
which are removed within seven days of original placement, political signs,
traffic regulatory or safety signs, emergency signs, signs denoting government
or municipal facilities or establishments, or multiple-family or religious
facility signs as regulated in this section.
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings may have one wall sign per building not to
exceed ten square feet in area, or one freestanding sign, not to exceed 20
square feet in area or ten feet in height from the landscaped ground level.
   (C)   Churches, synagogues and temples may have one freestanding sign with
the sign area not to exceed 36 square feet. The sign shall not extend more than
ten feet above ground level. Each facility may also have wall lettering
identifying the denomination or type of public facility over an area not to
exceed 25% of the surface area of the wall on which the lettering is placed.
Crosses or other religious symbols shall not be included in calculating the
maximum area of the lettering.
(Prior Code, § 908.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Signs generally, see §§
152.205 through
152.210
B-1 SERVICE BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 152.135 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses in the B-1 Service Business District:
   (A)   Armories, convention halls or exhibition halls;
   (B)   Bowling alleys, billiard or pool halls;
   (C)   Bakeries employing not more than four persons in the baking process;
   (D)   Bus station;
   (E)   Cabinet, carpenter, upholstering or furniture repair shops employing
not more than four persons in the construction or repair process;
   (F)   Dry cleaning establishments, laundries, laundromats, self-servicing or
employing not more than four persons in the laundering, cleaning and pressing
process;
   (G)   Frozen food lockers for individuals or family;
   (H)   Grocery, fruit, vegetable and meat stores;
   (I)   Greenhouses, nurseries and garden stores;
   (J)   Laboratories, medical and dental;
   (K)   Marine and boat sales and servicing establishments;
   (L)   Miniature golf courses, par three golf courses or archery or golf
driving ranges operated for commercial purposes;
   (M)   Monument sales, not including processing;
   (N)   Mortuaries or funeral homes;
   (O)   Motels, hotels or apartment hotels;
   (P)   Newspaper distribution agencies;
   (Q)   Orthopedic and medical appliance stored, but not including the
assembly or manufacture of such articles;
   (R)   Pet and animal hospitals;
   (S)   Plumbing, heating and air conditioning shops and showrooms;
   (T)   Photographic studio and processing;
   (U)   Printing and publishing shops;
   (V)   Public utility structures;
   (W)   Municipal and government buildings;
   (X)   Radio and television service and repair shops;
   (Y)   Recording studios;
   (Z)   Restaurants;
   (AA)   Skating rinks;
   (BB)   Taverns;
   (CC)   Telephone booths (outside);
   (DD)   Theaters; and
   (EE)   Vending machines for water, ice, milk or soda pop sales.
(Prior Code, § 909.01)
§ 152.136 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses in the B-1 Service Business District:
   (A)   New or used automobile sales or storage lots, new or used implement
sales or storage lots, automobile laundries or car washes, automobile service
stations or repair shops; provided:
      (1)   The parking lot shall be surfaced with a dust-free material, and
plans for the arrangement of entrances, exits, screening of exterior storage
lots and parking stalls shall accompany the request for a special use permit;
and
      (2)   Artificial lighting shall be directed away from any public right-
of-way and any residential district.
   (B)   Drive-in restaurants, car washes or similar uses that provide goods
and services to patrons in automobiles, provided:
      (1)   A screen of acceptable design shall be constructed along the
property line when said use is abutting any residential property;
      (2)   The parking area shall be surfaced with a dust-free material, and
plans for the arrangement of entrances, exits and parking stalls shall
accompany the request for a special use permit; and
      (3)   Lighting shall be directed away from any public right-of-way and
any residential district.
   (C)   Parking in required yards; and
   (D)   Other business activities of the same general character as those
permitted, but not specifically listed.
(Prior Code, § 909.02)
§ 152.137 HEIGHT, YARD AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations.
      (1)   Structures shall not exceed four stories or 45 feet in height,
except that church spires, belfries, domes which do not contain useable space,
water towers, chimneys or smoke stacks, cooling towers and elevated penthouses
may be erected with no height limitations except airport requirements.
      (2)   On any lot abutting an R-1 District, no structure shall exceed two
and one half stories or 30 feet in height, except that church spires, belfries,
domes which do not contain usable space and chimneys may be of any height which
does not conflict with airport requirements.
   (B)   Front yard regulations. There shall be a front yard or dust-free
surfaced parking lot having a depth of not less than 30 feet.
   (C)   Side yard regulations.
      (1)   No specific side yard width shall be required, except that
reasonable access for firefighting equipment and setbacks for traffic safety
(if adjacent to street, alley or driveway) may be required.
      (2)   On every lot having common lot line with a lot located in any
residential district, the side yard regulation of that residential district
shall be observed.
   (D)   Rear yard regulations. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of
not less than 20 feet, except that on any lot which abuts any other district in
which a rear yard of less than 20 feet is allowed, the rear yard regulations of
that district may be used.
   (E)   Lot coverage regulations. Not more than 50% of a lot shall be occupied
by buildings.
   (F)   Screening requirements. Prior to issuance of any zoning or building
permit for any commercial, business or industrial use, an applicant shall agree
to provide adequate screening to reduce or eliminate possible nuisance-like
effects of the proposed use, such as noise, glare, dust and the view of parking
or storage areas and signs, if the use would share a common lost line with any
residential district (R-1 or R-2). Such screening shall include a fence, not
less than six feet nor more than eight feet in height, which is designed in a
manner compatible with both the proposed building and any fences or the
immediately adjacent outside covering of homes or other buildings in the
residential district. The fence shall be located within the five-foot strip
immediately adjoining the common lot line. The screening may also, in the
discretion of the City Council upon recommendation of the Planning and Zoning
Commission, include required planting of trees, bushes and other plant
materials designed to provide a minimum year-round opaque barrier of 80% at the
time of maturity. Nothing herein shall prevent the use of existing trees, walls
of the proposed building or sodded and maintained earthen berms from being used
as a substitute for fencing; provided they offer the same buffer and sight
relief from parking lots and nuisance-like effects of the proposed use and are
approved by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 909.03)
§ 152.138 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The required parking and loading spaces shall be provided on the premises of
each use. No parking shall be allowed in any required yard except as a
conditional use. Each parking space shall contain a minimum area of not less
than 300 square feet including access drives, and a width of not less than nine
feet, and a depth of not less than 20 feet. The minimum number of required off-
street parking spaces for various uses shall be as follows:
   (A)   Automobile service station: four parking spaces plus two parking
spaces for each service stall. Such parking spaces shall be in addition to gas
pump service areas;
   (B)   Sales establishments for autos, trailers, boats and marine equipment,
farm implements, garden supplies, building materials and auto repair services:
six parking spaces plus one additional parking space for each 500 square feet
of floor area over 1,000 square feet;
   (C)   Bowling alley: five parking spaces for each bowling lane;
   (D)   Drive-in restaurant: 20 parking spaces or one space for each twenty
square feet of floor area whichever is greater;
   (E)   Motel: one parking space for each rental room or suite;
   (F)   Miniature golf course, archery range or golf driving range: ten
parking spaces;
   (G)   Assembly or exhibition hall, auditorium, theater or sports arena: one
parking space for each four seats, based on design capacity;
   (H)   Restaurant, café, night club, tavern or bar: one parking space for
each 100 square feet of floor area;
   (I)   Skating rink or dance hall: one parking space for each 200 square feet
of floor area;
   (J)   Other retail stores and service establishments: one parking space for
each 100 square feet of floor area plus one space for each employee on the
major shift or one space for each 350 feet of gross floor area within the
building, whichever is greater; and
   (K)   Professional offices, medical and dental clinics, and animal
hospitals: four parking spaces plus one parking space for each 500 square feet
of floor area over 1,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 909.04)
§ 152.139 PERMITTED SIGNS REQUIRING A PERMIT.
   (A)   Wall signs and projecting signs.
      (1)   Individual establishments. Individual detached establishments or
enterprises not clustered in a shopping center complex or in a multi-tenant
office or industrial building may have wall signs and projecting signs on each
wall; provided the aggregate area of such signs does not exceed 20% of the area
of the wall supporting the signs.
      (2)   Clustered establishment. Attached establishments or enterprises
clustered in a shopping center complex or in a multi-tenant office or
industrial building may have wall signs and projecting signs subject to the
following.
         (a)   Each establishment or enterprise may have such signs on each of
its exterior walls; provided the aggregate area of such sign does not exceed
20% of the wall supporting the signs.
         (b)   In lieu of the division (A)(2)(a) above, the aggregate of the
establishments or enterprises may have a wall or projecting sign on each wall
identifying the tenants collectively, or identifying the complex or building;
provided the area of each sign does not exceed 30% of the area of the wall
supporting it, or 100 square feet, whichever is less.
   (B)   Freestanding signs.
      (1)   The gross surface area of any freestanding sign shall not exceed 80
square feet.
      (2)   Freestanding signs shall be limited to one for a lot of 100-foot
frontage or less, and to only one for each additional 100 feet for lot frontage
(i.e., lots with frontage of 150 feet shall only be allowed one freestanding
sign; lots with 200 feet of frontage shall be allowed two signs). Corner lots
or pie-shaped lots shall be assigned frontage pursuant to the section of the
city code relating to special assessment of curb and gutter and street
assessments.
      (3)   No freestanding sign shall project higher than ten feet above the
highest point of any building on the lot.
   (C)   Roof signs. Each lot eligible for a freestanding sign may instead
elect to have a roof sign for identification (in lieu of a freestanding
identification sign); provided that the sign does not extend more than six feet
above the roof line or exceed respective area limits.
   (D)   Canopy signs. Individual and clustered establishments may have canopy
signs, to be considered a type of wall sign; provided the sign in all other
respects is consistent with the provisions of this chapter for wall signs.
(Prior Code, § 909.05)
B-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 152.150 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses in the B-2 General Business District:
   (A)   Animal or pet shops;
   (B)   Antiques, gift or jewelry stores;
   (C)   Apparel, dry goods or department stores;
   (D)   Appliances, sewing machine sales and service, hardware, paint and
wallpaper stores, and bicycle sales and repair;
   (E)   Art and school supply, book and stationery stores;
   (F)   Art, photographic, music and dance studios;
   (G)   Bakeries employing not more than four persons in the baking process;
   (H)   Banks, savings and loan associations, and loan and finance companies;
   (I)   Barber and beauty shops;
   (J)   Business, commercial or trade schools;
   (K)   Camera or photographic supply stores, hobby, toy or record stores,
sporting goods stores or musical instrument stores;
   (L)   Clinics, for people only;
   (M)   Radio or television broadcasting or transmitting stations or studios,
radio and television repair, when operated as an accessory to a retail sales
establishment;
   (N)   Drug, variety and five and ten cent stores;
   (O)   Dry cleaning and laundry collection stations;
   (P)   Professional and other business offices; employment agencies;
   (Q)   Furniture store; carpet and rug stores;
   (R)   Grocery, fruit, vegetable, floral or meat stores, candy, ice cream,
soft drink or confectionery stores, excluding drive-in type service;
   (S)   Leather goods and luggage, shoe stores and shoe repair service;
   (T)   Liquor stores and taverns;
   (U)   Medical supply stores;
   (V)   Newsstands;
   (W)   Laboratories;
   (X)   Physical culture and health clubs and gyms;
   (Y)   Pipe and tobacco shops;
   (Z)   Post offices;
   (AA)   Restaurants, tea rooms, delicatessens and cafés, excluding drive-in
type service;
   (BB)   Self-service storage facilities;
   (CC)   Tailor shops;
   (DD)   Telephone booths (outside);
   (EE)   Theaters; and
   (FF)   Auto and farm implement dealership.
(Prior Code, § 910.01)
§ 152.151 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses in the B-2 General Business District:
   (A)   Any business activity of the same general character as those listed in
§
152.150 but not specifically permitted;
   (B)   Multiple dwellings, but only if a part of a planned concept in
accordance with the Comprehensive Plan;
   (C)   Auto service stations;
   (D)   Farm supply stores;
   (E)   Veterinarian clinics;
   (F)   Residential apartment units; provided that the permit may only be
granted for conversion of existing buildings. Also, in regard to renovation of
street or ground floor areas, at least 50% or 1,000 square feet, whichever is
smaller, must remain available for other business uses permitted in this
District. The area remaining available for business use must be located at the
street/store front area of the ground floor. Renovation plans must conform to
all applicable state and local regulations for such use and must provide for
adequate off-street parking; and
   (G)   Any manufacturing, production, processing, cleaning, storage,
servicing, repair and testing of materials, goods or products similar to those
listed in §
152.150 but not specifically permitted, which comply with the performance
standards of this District.
(Prior Code, § 910.02)
§ 152.152 HEIGHT, YARD AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. Structures shall not exceed four stories or 45
feet in height, except that church spires, belfries, domes which do not contain
useable space, water towers, chimneys or smoke stacks, cooling towers and
elevated penthouses may be erected with no height limitations except airport
requirements.
   (B)   Yard regulations and lot coverage regulations. None required except to
provide off-street parking and loading, if required.
   (C)   Screening requirements. The screening requirements shown in §
152.137(F), regarding uses adjacent to residential areas, shall also apply to
all B-2 users.
(Prior Code, § 910.03)
§ 152.153 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Lighting shall be directed away from public rights-of-way and
residential districts.
   (B)   Any awning, canopy or marquee suspended from a building may extend
over the public right-of-way ten feet and not closer than one foot to the curb
line extended. Such structure shall be not less than seven feet from the
sidewalk or ground grade level, and the owner of such structure shall be
responsible for its structural safety.
   (C)   Signs protruding or extending over sidewalks or public rights-of-way
shall be not less than seven feet above the sidewalk or ground level.
   (D)   No individual mailboxes may be erected or maintained within or
adjacent to the right-of-way of Main Street or Fremont Street in the Downtown
Business District defined as Main Street from its intersection on the west with
Fremont Street, easterly to its intersection with Rice Street; and Fremont
Street from its intersection with Harrison Street on the north to city alley
south of First Street South.
(Prior Code, § 910.04)
§ 152.154 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The required parking and loading spaces shall be provided on the premises of
each use. No parking shall be allowed in any required yard except as a
conditional use. Each parking space shall contain a minimum area of not less
than 300 square feet including access drives, and a width of not less than nine
feet, and a depth of not less than 20 feet. The minimum number of required off-
street parking spaces for various uses shall be as follows:
   (A)   Automobile service station: four parking spaces plus two parking
spaces for each service stall. Such parking spaces shall be in addition to gas
pump service areas;
   (B)   Sales establishments for autos, trailers, boats and marine equipment,
farm implements, garden supplies, building materials and auto repair services:
six parking spaces plus one additional parking space for each 500 square feet
of floor area over 1,000 square feet;
   (C)   Bowling alley: five parking spaces for each bowling lane;
   (D)   Drive-in restaurant: 20 parking spaces or one space for each 20 square
feet of floor area whichever is greater;
   (E)   Motel: one parking space for each rental room or suite;
   (F)   Miniature golf course, archery range or golf driving range: ten
parking spaces;
   (G)   Assembly or exhibition hall, auditorium, theater or sports arena: one
parking space for each four seats, based on design capacity;
   (H)   Restaurant, café, night club, tavern or bar: one parking space for
each 100 square feet of floor area;
   (I)   Skating rink or dance hall: one parking space for each 200 square feet
of floor area;
   (J)   Other retail stores and service establishments: one parking space for
each 100 square feet of floor area plus one space for each employee on the
major shift or one space for each 350 feet of gross floor area within the
building, whichever is greater; and
   (K)   Professional offices, medical and dental clinics, and animal
hospitals: four parking spaces plus one parking space for each 500 square feet
of floor area over 1,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 910.05)
§ 152.155 PERMITTED SIGNS REQUIRING A PERMIT.
   (A)   Wall signs and projecting signs.
      (1)   Individual establishments. Individual detached establishments or
enterprises not clustered in a shopping center complex or in a multi-tenant
office or industrial building may have wall signs and projecting signs on each
wall; provided the aggregate area of such signs does not exceed 20% of the area
of the wall supporting the signs.
      (2)   Clustered establishment. Attached establishments or enterprises
clustered in a shopping center complex or in a multi-tenant office or
industrial building may have wall signs and projecting signs subject to the
following:
         (a)   Each establishment or enterprise may have such signs on each of
its exterior walls; provided the aggregate area of such sign does not exceed
20% of the wall supporting the signs; and
         (b)   In lieu of division (A)(2)(a) above, the aggregate of the
establishments or enterprises may have a wall or projecting sign on each wall
identifying the tenants collectively, or identifying the complex or building;
provided the area of each sign does not exceed 30% of the area of the wall
supporting it, or 100 square feet, whichever is less.
   (B)   Freestanding signs.
      (1)   The gross surface area of any freestanding sign shall not exceed 80
square feet.
      (2)   Freestanding signs shall be limited to one for a lot of 100-foot
frontage or less, and to only one for each additional 100 feet for lot frontage
(i.e., lots with frontage of 150 feet shall only be allowed one freestanding
sign; lots with 200 feet of frontage shall be allowed two signs). Corner lots
or pie-shaped lots shall be assigned frontage pursuant to the section of the
city code relating to special assessment of curb and gutter and street
assessments.
      (3)   No freestanding sign shall project higher than ten feet above the
highest point of any building on the lot.
   (C)   Roof signs. Each lot eligible for a freestanding sign may instead
elect to have a roof sign for identification (in lieu of a freestanding
identification sign); provided that the sign does not extend more than six feet
above the roof line or exceed respective area limits.
   (D)   Canopy signs. Individual and clustered establishments may have canopy
signs, to be considered a type of wall sign; provided the sign in all other
respects is consistent with the provisions of this chapter for wall signs.
(Prior Code, § 910.06)
§ 152.156 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR CONDITIONAL USES.
   In order to ensure compliance with the performance standards set forth
below, the City Council may require the owner or operator to show adherence to
the performance standards. Such investigations or tests as are required shall
be carried out by an independent testing organization selected by the city.
Such investigations or testing shall be ordered by the owner or operator. The
cost of same shall be shared equally by the owner or operator and the city,
unless the investigation or tests disclose non-compliance with the performance
standards, in which situation the entire costs shall be paid by the owner or
operator.
   (A)   Noise. At any property line, the sound pressure level of noise
radiated from an industrial operation shall not exceed the values given in
Table 1 herein. The sound pressure level shall be measured with a sound meter
and an associated octave-band analyzer, both of which are manufactured to
specifications published by the American Standard Specifications for an Octave-
Band Filter Set for the Analysis of Noise and Other Sounds, 224, 10-1953,
American Standards Association, Inc., New York, New York. Measurements shall be
made using the flat network of the sound level meter.
Table 1
Frequency Band Cycles Per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Level (Decibels)
Table 1
Frequency Band Cycles Per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Level (Decibels)
20 - 75                          72
76 - 150                         67
151 - 300                        59
301 - 600                        52
601 - 1,200                      46
1,201 - 2,400                    40
2,401 - 4,800                    34
Over 4,800                       32
 
   (B)   Odors. No odors shall be detectable beyond the limits of the property.
   (C)   Exterior lighting. Any lights used for exterior illumination shall
direct light away from adjoining property. Glare, whether direct or deflected,
such as from floodlights, spotlights or high temperature processing, and as
differentiated from general illumination, shall not be visible beyond the
limits of the property.
   (D)   Vibration. No vibration shall be discernible at any property line to
the human sense of feeling for an accumulated total of three or more minutes
during any hour.
   (E)   Smoke. The Ringelman Smoke Chart, published by the United States
Bureau of Mines, shall be used for measuring smoke at the point of emission.
Smoke not darker than or more opaque than No. 4 on said chart may be emitted,
except that smoke darker than or more opaque then No. 2 on said chart may not
be emitted for periods longer than four minutes in any 30 minutes. These
provisions, applicable to visible gray smoke, shall also apply to visible smoke
of a different color but an equivalent apparent opacity.
   (F)   Dust. Solid or liquid particles shall not be emitted at any point in
concentrations exceeding 0.2 grains per cubic foot of the conveying gas or air.
For measurement of the amount of particles in gases resulting from combustion,
standard corrections shall be applied to a stack temperature of 500ºF and 50%
excess air.
   (G)   Fumes and gases. Fumes or gases shall not be emitted at any point in
concentrations of amounts that are noxious, toxic or corrosive. The values
given in Table 1 (industrial hygiene standards - maximum allowable
concentration for eight-hour day, five days per week), Table III (odor
thresholds), Table IV (exposure to substances causing pain in the eyes) and
Table I (exposure to substances causing injury to vegetation) in the latest
revision of Chapter 5, “Physiological Effects”, that contains such tables, in
the Air Pollution Abatement Manual, by the Manufacturing Chemists’ Association,
Inc., Washington, D.C., are hereby established as guides for the determination
of permissible concentrations or amounts. Detailed plans for the elimination of
fumes or gases may be required before the issuance of a building permit.
   (H)   Sewer and water. The design and construction of water supply
facilities and treatment of all industrial sewage and waste shall comply with
city and state health standards and requirements.
(Prior Code, § 910.07)
I-1 LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.175 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses in the I-1 Limited Industrial District:
   (A)   Airports, heliports, cartage and express facilities, and railroad
rights-of-way;
   (B)   Storage and warehousing facilities, wholesale business and office
establishments;
   (C)   Bottling establishments;
   (D)   Building materials sales and storage establishments;
   (E)   Radio and television towers and stations, and electric light or power
generating stations;
   (F)   Engraving, printing, publishing, cartographic and bookbinding
establishments;
   (G)   Dry cleaning, dyeing and laundering establishments;
   (H)   Electrical and electronic manufacturing establishments, and electrical
service shops;
   (I)   Medical, dental and optical laboratories;
   (J)   Public utility structures and governmental buildings;
   (K)   Jewelry, camera and photographic manufacturing establishments; and
   (L)   Accessory uses customarily incident to the above permitted uses in
this section.
(Prior Code, § 911.01)
§ 152.176 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses in the I-1 Limited Industrial District:
   (A)   Any manufacturing, production, processing, cleaning, storage,
servicing, repair and testing of materials, goods or products similar to those
listed in §
152.175, which comply with the performance standards of this District; and
   (B)   Retail and service establishments essential to a Planned Industrial
District and providing goods and services which are primarily for the use of
persons employed in this District.
(Prior Code, § 911.02)
§ 152.177 HEIGHT, YARD AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. No structure shall exceed four stories or 45 feet
in height, except that cooling towers, elevator penthouses, domes which do not
contain usable space, water towers and smokestacks may be of any height which
does not conflict with airport requirements.
   (B)   Front yard regulations. There shall be a front yard having a depth of
not less than 30 feet, except where the District is adjacent to or across the
street from a residential district, there shall be a front yard having a depth
of not less than 50 feet.
   (C)   Side yard regulations. There shall be a side yard on each side of a
building, each yard having a width of not less than 15 feet, except where the
District abuts a residential district, the side yard shall have a width of not
less than 25 feet and shall be bordered by fence and/or shrubbery screening at
least eight feet in height.
   (D)   Rear yard regulations. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of
not less than 30 feet, except where the District abuts a residential district,
there shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than 50 feet and shall be
bordered by fence and/or shrubbery screening at least eight feet in height.
   (E)   Lot area regulations. Every individual lot, site or tract shall have
an area of not less than 20,000 square feet.
   (F)   Minimum district area regulations. No I-1 District shall be
established on any tract containing less than ten acres in single ownership or
other unified control. This requirement shall not apply where the tract abuts
an existing industrial district.
   (G)   Lot coverage regulations. Not more than 50% of the total area of a lot
shall be covered by buildings.
(Prior Code, § 911.03)
§ 152.178 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   In order to ensure compliance with the performance standards set forth
below, the City Council may require the owner or operator to show adherence to
the performance standards. Such investigations or tests as are required shall
be carried out by an independent testing organization selected by the city.
Such investigations or testing shall be ordered by the owner or operator. The
cost of same shall be shared equally by the owner or operator and the city,
unless the investigation or tests disclose non-compliance with the performance
standards, in which situation the entire costs shall be paid by the owner or
operator.
   (A)   Noise. At any property line, the sound pressure level of noise
radiated from an industrial operation shall not exceed the values given in
Table 1 herein. The sound pressure level shall be measured with a sound meter
and an associated octave-band analyzer, both of which are manufactured to
specifications published by the American Standard Specifications for an Octave-
Band Filter Set for the Analysis of Noise and Other Sounds, 224, 10-1953,
American Standards Association, Inc., New York, New York. Measurements shall be
made using the flat network of the sound level meter.
Table 1
Frequency Band Cycles Per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Level (Decibels)
Table 1
Frequency Band Cycles Per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Level (Decibels)
20 - 75                          72
76 - 150                         67
151 - 300                        59
301 - 600                        52
601 - 1,200                      46
1,201 - 2,400                    40
2,401 - 4,800                    34
Over 4,800                       32
 
   (B)   Odors. No odors shall be detectable beyond the limits of the property.
   (C)   Exterior lighting. Any lights used for exterior illumination shall
direct light away from adjoining property. Glare, whether direct or deflected,
such as from floodlights, spotlights or high temperature processing, and as
differentiated from general illumination, shall not be visible beyond the
limits of the property.
   (D)   Vibration. No vibration shall be discernible at any property line to
the human sense of feeling for an accumulated total of three or more minutes
during any hour.
   (E)   Smoke. The Ringelman Smoke Chart, published by the United States
Bureau of Mines, shall be used for measuring smoke at the point of emission.
Smoke not darker than or more opaque than No. 4 on said chart may be emitted,
except that smoke darker than or more opaque than No. 2 on said chart may not
be emitted for periods longer than four minutes in any 30 minutes. These
provisions, applicable to visible gray smoke, shall also apply to visible smoke
of a different color but an equivalent apparent opacity.
   (F)   Dust. Solid or liquid particles shall not be emitted at any point in
concentrations exceeding 0.2 grains per cubic foot of the conveying gas or air.
For measurement of the amount of particles in gases resulting from combustion,
standard corrections shall be applied to a stack temperature of 500ºF and 50%
excess air.
   (G)   Fumes and gases. Fumes or gases shall not be emitted at any point in
concentrations of amounts that are noxious, toxic or corrosive. The values
given in Table 1 (industrial hygiene standards - maximum allowable
concentration for eight-hour day, five days per week), Table III (odor
thresholds), Table IV (exposure to substances causing pain in the eyes) and
Table I (exposure to substances causing injury to vegetation) in the latest
revision of Chapter 5, “Physiological Effects”, that contains such tables, in
the Air Pollution Abatement Manual, by the Manufacturing Chemists’ Association,
Inc., Washington, D.C., are hereby established as guides for the determination
of permissible concentrations or amounts. Detailed plans for the elimination of
fumes or gases may be required before the issuance of a building permit.
   (H)   Sewer and water. The design and construction of water supply
facilities and treatment of all industrial sewage and waste shall comply with
city and state health standards and requirements.
(Prior Code, § 911.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
I-2 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.190 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses in the I-2 General Industrial District:
   (A)   Airports, heliports, cartage and express facilities, and railroad
rights-of-way;
   (B)   Storage and warehousing facilities, and wholesale business and office
establishments;
   (C)   Bottling establishments;
   (D)   Building materials sales and storage establishments;
   (E)   Radio and television towers and stations, and electric light or power
generating stations;
   (F)   Engraving, printing, publishing, cartographic and bookbinding
establishments;
   (G)   Dry cleaning, dyeing and laundering establishments;
   (H)   Electrical and electronic manufacturing establishments, and electrical
service shops;
   (I)   Medical, dental and optical laboratories;
   (J)   Public utility structures and governmental buildings;
   (K)   Jewelry, camera and photographic manufacturing establishments;
   (L)   Accessory uses customarily incident to the above permitted uses;
   (M)   Blacksmith shop;
   (N)   Canning factories and creameries;
   (O)   Contractors’ offices, shops, yards and storage facilities for
plumbing, heating, glazing, painting, paperhanging, roofing, ventilating, air
conditioning, lumber, masonry, electrical and refrigeration industries;
   (P)   Freight terminals;
   (Q)   Fuel and ice sales and storage facilities;
   (R)   Garages for storage, repair and servicing of motor vehicles and farm
implements;
   (S)   Gasoline and oil bulk stations and distributing plants;
   (T)   Highway maintenance shops and yards;
   (U)   Monument works;
   (V)   Public service structures, including power substations, gas regulator
stations, sewage disposal plants, telephone exchanges, police or fire stations,
elevated tanks and waterworks; and
   (W)   Manufacturing, processing, storage, servicing and testing
establishments.
(Prior Code, § 912.01)
§ 152.191 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses in the I-2 General Industrial District:
   (A)   Any manufacturing, production, processing, cleaning, storage,
servicing, repair and testing of materials, goods or products similar to those
listed in §
152.190, which comply with the performance standards of this District;
   (B)   Extraction, processing or storage of sand and gravel, stone or other
raw materials; and
   (C)   Retail and service establishments essential to the operation of a
General Industrial District.
(Prior Code, § 912.02)
§ 152.192 HEIGHT, YARD AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. No structure shall exceed 200 feet in height.
   (B)   Yard regulations.
      (1)   No building shall be located within 20 feet of any non-residential
district.
      (2)   No building shall be located within 200 feet of any R-1 or R-
2 District or within 100 feet from an R-A District.
      (3)   No parking or loading space shall be located within 100 feet of any
residential district.
      (4)   Any open storage of materials shall be located or screened so as
not to be visible from any residential district.
(Prior Code, § 912.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.193 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   In order to ensure compliance with the performance standards set forth
below, the City Council may require the owner or operator of any permitted use
to have made such investigations or tests as may be required to show adherence
to the performance standards. Such investigations or tests as are required
shall be carried out by an independent testing organization selected by the
city. Such investigations or testing shall be ordered by the owner or operator.
The cost of same shall be shared equally by the owner or operator and the city,
unless the investigation or tests disclose non-compliance with the performance
standards, in which situation the entire costs shall be paid by the owner or
operator. Except that measurement or determination of noise, odor and vibration
shall be made at the boundary of the I-2 District.
   (A)   Noise. At any property line, the sound pressure level of noise
radiated from an industrial operation shall not exceed the values given in
Table 1 herein. The sound pressure level shall be measured with a sound meter
and an associated octave-band analyzer, both of which are manufactured to
specifications published by the American Standard Specifications for an Octave-
Band Filter Set for the Analysis of Noise and Other Sounds, 224, 10-1953,
American Standards Association, Inc., New York, New York. Measurements shall be
made using the flat network of the sound level meter.
Table 1
Frequency Band Cycles Per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Level (Decibels)
Table 1
Frequency Band Cycles Per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Level (Decibels)
20 - 75                          72
76 - 150                         67
151 - 300                        59
301 - 600                        52
601 - 1,200                      46
1,201 - 2,400                    40
2,401 - 4,800                    34
Over 4,800                       32
 
   (B)   Odors. No odors shall be detectable beyond the limits of the property.
   (C)   Exterior lighting. Any lights used for exterior illumination shall
direct light away from adjoining property. Glare, whether direct or deflected,
such as from floodlights, spotlights or high temperature processing, and as
differentiated from general illumination, shall not be visible beyond the
limits of the property.
   (D)   Vibration. No vibration shall be discernible at any property line to
the human sense of feeling for an accumulated total of three or more minutes
during any hour.
   (E)   Smoke. The Ringelman Smoke Chart, published by the United States
Bureau of Mines, shall be used for measuring smoke at the point of emission.
Smoke not darker than or more opaque than No. 4 on said chart may be emitted,
except that smoke darker than or more opaque then No. 2 on said chart may not
be emitted for periods longer than four minutes in any 30 minutes. These
provisions, applicable to visible gray smoke, shall also apply to visible smoke
of a different color but an equivalent apparent opacity.
   (F)   Dust. Solid or liquid particles shall not be emitted at any point in
concentrations exceeding 0.2 grains per cubic foot of the conveying gas or air.
For measurement of the amount of particles in gases resulting from combustion,
standard corrections shall be applied to a stack temperature of 500ºF and 50%
excess air.
   (G)   Fumes and gases. Fumes or gases shall not be emitted at any point in
concentrations of amounts that are noxious, toxic or corrosive. The values
given in Table 1 (industrial hygiene standards - maximum allowable
concentration for eight-hour day, five days per week), Table III (odor
thresholds), Table IV (exposure to substances causing pain in the eyes) and
Table I (exposure to substances causing injury to vegetation) in the latest
revision of Chapter 5, “Physiological Effects”, that contains such tables, in
the Air Pollution Abatement Manual, by the Manufacturing Chemists’ Association,
Inc., Washington, D.C., are hereby established as guides for the determination
of permissible concentrations or amounts. Detailed plans for the elimination of
fumes or gases may be required before the issuance of a building permit.
   (H)   Sewer and water. The design and construction of water supply
facilities and treatment of all industrial sewage and waste shall comply with
city and state health standards and requirements.
   (I)   Mailboxes. No individual mailboxes may be erected or maintained within
or adjacent to the right-of-way of Main Street or Fremont Street in the
Downtown Business District defined as Main Street from its intersection on the
west with Fremont Street, easterly to its intersection with Rice Street; and
Fremont Street from its intersection with Harrison Street on the north to city
alley south of First Street South.
(Prior Code, § 912.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
GENERAL REGULATION OF SIGNS
§ 152.205 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOT. A parcel or portion of land in a subdivision or plat of land, separated
from other parcels or portions by description, as on a subdivision or record of
survey map; or by metes and bounds if existing prior to or in accordance with
exemptions from the city’s subdivision regulations.
   NON-CONFORMING SIGNS. Any sign legally existing on the effective date of
this chapter which does not conform to the requirements set forth in this
chapter shall become a non-conforming use. Non-conforming, permanent signs
shall be allowed to continue but shall not be rebuilt, materially altered or
relocated without being brought into compliance with the requirements of this
chapter, except that any flashing portion shall be discontinued within 30 days
after the effective date of this chapter (see also § 152.020).
   SIGN. Any publicly displayed message-bearing device for visual communication
or any attention attracting device that is used primarily for the purpose of
bringing the subject thereof to the attention of the public including any
banner, pennant, symbol, valance or similar display.
   SIGN, BUSINESS I.D. Any sign painted on, or letters attached to, a building
wall which only states the name and/or nature of the business occupying the
building, or the identity of the owner of the building, rather than advertising
a particular product.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign which is not affixed to any part of any building
and which is rather supported by upright braces or posts placed in the ground,
or by a structure which is not attached to any building.
   SIGN, GROSS SURFACE AREA OF. The maximum projected area as viewed from any
point, calculated as follows: a polygon with a single continuous perimeter
whose sides are made up of straight lines (which in no case pass through or
between any adjacent elements of the sign and whose interior angles are each
less than 180 degrees). However, such perimeter shall not include any
structural elements (forms, braces, posts and the like) lying outside the
limits of such sign surface and not forming an integral part of the display.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. A sign so designed as to be movable from one location to
another and not permanently attached to the ground or to any immobile
structure. PORTABLE SIGN may consist of a mobile structure such as a semi-truck
trailer or other device whose primary function during a specific time period is
to serve as a sign.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign which is attached to a surface of a building
which extends more than 18 inches from the wall or building surface.
   SIGN, ROOF. Any sign which is extended above any portion of a roof, or is
attached to or embedded within a roof.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign which is erected or displayed for a limited period
of time.
   SIGN, WALL. Any sign which is attached flat against, or does not project
more than 18 inches beyond, the wall or face of the building to which it is
attached.
(Prior Code, § 913.01)
§ 152.206 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited:
   (A)   Signs that, by reason of position, shape or color would interfere with
the proper function of a traffic sign or signal;
   (B)   Signs within the public right-of-way or easement, except for
government installed signs;
   (C)   Signs that resemble any official marker erected by a governmental
agency or that display such words as “stop” or “danger”;
   (D)   Flashing signs including indoor signs which are visible from the
public streets;
   (E)   With the exception of search lights which may be approved in
conjunction with city-wide celebrations, no strobe, rotating beam, beacon or
flashing illumination shall be used in connection with any display;
   (F)   Signs or sign structures that obstruct any window, door, fire escape,
stairway or opening intended to provide ingress or egress for any building
structure. With reference to commercial and industrial districts, signs painted
on the inside glass portion of windows or doors are permitted;
   (G)   Banners, pennants, streamers, balloons, stringers or similar
attention-attracting devices, unless approved in conjunction with a city-wide
celebration or activity, such as the Fools Five race, Lewiston Heartland Days
and the like;
   (H)   Sign posters that are tacked or posted on trees, fences, utility poles
or other such supports;
   (I)   Portable signs, except as a conditional use in B-1 or B-2 District and
subject to annual review;
   (J)   No sign shall restrict the line of sight from streets, highways or
access roads adjacent to the premises on which it is located, for purposes of
public safety patrol, and observation;
   (K)   No sign shall restrict or otherwise interfere with the line of sight
from street, highways or access roads to existing business signs on adjacent
properties; provided such existing signs are otherwise in compliance with this
chapter;
   (L)   No sign shall be allowed which would create a traffic hazard at roads,
streets or intersections adjacent to the lot on which the sign is located; or
which attracts attention of drivers approaching busy or dangerous
intersections;
   (M)   All other signs not expressly permitted by this chapter; and
   (N)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, nothing contained in
this or any other provisions regulating signs shall discriminate between
different message content alone. All sign regulations shall be enforced equally
regardless of content of the message upon the sign. Nothing herein shall
prohibit enforcement of performance standards intended to prevent nuisances
caused by signs, including lighting visible in residential areas, traffic
distraction or interference with access to solar energy.
(Prior Code, § 913.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.207 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR PERMITTED SIGNS.
   (A)   Where a sign is illuminated, the beam of light shall not shine
directly upon any part of a residence or into the street.
   (B)   No projecting sign shall project more than 96 inches out from the wall
to which it is attached, extend above the roof line or exceed 20 square feet in
area on any side.
   (C)   Owners of signs shall keep all signs in reasonable repair and conduct
periodic maintenance. Any sign or sign structure which may be, or may hereafter
become rotted, unsafe or unsightly shall be repaired or removed by the
licensee, owner or agent of the owner of the property upon which the sign
stands, upon 30 days written notice from the city or its agent.
   (D)   No part of any permanent freestanding sign shall be closer than ten
feet to the side lot line.
   (E)   No part of any sign shall project over or beyond the property line of
the property upon which the sign is located.
   (F)   Unless set back 20 or more feet from the street right-of-way line, the
supporting column(s) of a freestanding sign exceeding 16 square feet in area
shall not materially impede vision between a height of two and one-half and
seven and one-half feet above the centerline grade of the street.
   (G)   Wall signs on office buildings shall be of a uniform design compatible
with the exterior appearance of the building.
   (H)   Freestanding signs shall be able to withstand a wind load of 30 pounds
per square foot of surface area.
   (I)   All electric signs shall meet minimum standards of State Electrical
Code hereby adopted by reference for the purpose of this regulation.
(Prior Code, § 913.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.208 PERMITTED SIGNS NOT REQUIRING A PERMIT.
   The following permitted signs do not require a permit:
   (A)   Name identification signs for one- and two-family dwellings; provided
that such signs are less than two square feet in area (note: this does not
include home occupation signs);
   (B)   Traffic-control signs, non-commercial governmental signs, legal
notices, railroad crossing signs and temporary non-advertising safety or
emergency signs;
   (C)   Signs denoting the architect, engineer, contractor or owner when
placed upon a respective worksite and not exceeding an aggregate of 48 square
feet in area, to be removed ten days following completion of construction;
   (D)   Copy or message changing on a printed or painted sign which is
permitted by this chapter;
   (E)   Portable and freestanding political signs for a period of not more
than 60 days before and ten days after an election; provided no one sign is
greater than 16 square feet in area. Freestanding political signs may be
installed only upon private property with the permission of the property owner
who shall be responsible for removal thereof. The candidate whose candidacy is
promoted by an improperly placed or otherwise illegal political sign shall be
held responsible therefor;
   (F)   Signs or posters painted on or attached to the inside of a display
window (this shall not include illuminated signs or flashing signs in R-A, R-
1 or R-2 Districts);
   (G)   Flags, badges or insignia of any government of governmental agency, or
of any civic, religious, fraternal or professional organization. Commercial and
industrial establishments may display a single flag consisting of the official
corporate seal or insignia as identification of the individual establishment.
Advertising or promotion of specific product or service is prohibited;
   (H)   Temporary displays which are erected to celebrate, commemorate or
observe a civil or religious holiday;
   (I)   Business I.D. signs; provided the name or designation does not cover
more than 35% of the surface of the building on which it is located;
   (J)   Real estate signs as follows:
      (1)   Temporary freestanding or wall signs for the purpose of selling or
leasing individual lots or entire buildings; provided that such signs shall not
exceed six square feet in area for residential property and 32 square feet for
other property, and that there shall be only one such freestanding or wall sign
permitted for each property. The sign must be removed within ten days following
the lease or sale;
      (2)   Temporary freestanding off-site real estate signs announcing an
open house or similar activity for the purpose of showing or displaying a home
for sale are permitted; provided:
         (a)   The off-site sign is located on privately-owned residential
property and there is no objection to the display of the sign on the part of
that property owner;
         (b)   The off-site sign is displayed only during the time of the open
house or showing; and
         (c)   The size of the off-site sign shall not exceed three square feet
in area.
      (3)   A temporary freestanding sign for the purpose of announcing or
promoting a new residential, commercial or industrial project development;
provided that each residential project contains at least six dwellings or lots.
Further provisions are that one such sign is permitted for each major
thoroughfare the project abuts; the signs shall be located at least 130 feet
from any pre-existing home; the signs are removed within two years of issuance
of the first building permit in the project or when the particular project is
90% sold out or rented, whichever is sooner; and each sign shall not exceed 48
square feet.
   (K)   Rummage sale signs as follows: a temporary on-site rummage-sale sign
not exceeding six square feet in area, identifying the location of and/or
information relating to a rummage sale shall be permitted; provided they are
erected not more than 24 hours before the sale and are removed within 24 hours
after the end of the sale.
(Prior Code, § 913.04)
§ 152.209 SIGN PERMITS.
   (A)   No sign shall be erected, re-erected or altered unless a zoning permit
for each such sign has been obtained from the city. Such permits shall be
obtained by application in writing upon such forms as required for any other
zoning permit.
   (B)   Administrative fees reasonably calculated to reflect costs of meetings
by staff, elected or appointed officials and any other administrative costs for
investigation of the site or applicant may be charged as permit application
fees which shall be set from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 913.05)
§ 152.210 ENFORCEMENT.
   Each section or division of this chapter shall be considered separately in
the event of any test of its validity. It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation, to erect, alter, repair, move, equip or maintain any sign
or sign structure in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter. Any
such failure to comply with this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor for
each day the person, firm or corporation fails to comply or to remove a non-
complying sign. The city shall also have the right to sue for damages or seek
any equitable or injunctive relief to remove a non-complying sign and, if
successful, and the court deems just, the city shall also be awarded its
reasonable costs and disbursements for any legal action necessary to recover
damages or obtain injunctive relief, including reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Prior Code, § 913.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 152.225 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME, TRAILER COACH or TRAILER OR AUTOMOBILE TRAILER. Any vehicles or
structures so designed and constructed in such manner as will permit occupancy
thereof as a dwelling, or sleeping quarters for one or more persons, or the
conduct of any business or profession, occupation or trade (or use as a selling
or advertising device), and so designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels
and used as a conveyance on highways or city streets, propelled or drawn by its
own or other motive power, or any such structure designed and constructed in
such manner that it can be transported in one or more segments by some other
means than its own power, but excepting a device used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any park, trailer park, trailer court, trailer camp,
court, camp, site, lot, parcel or tract of land designed, maintained or
intended for the purpose of supplying a location or accommodations for any
mobile home and upon which any mobile home is parked and shall include all
buildings used or intended for use as part of the equipment thereof whether or
not a charge is made for the use of the MOBILE HOME PARK and its facilities.
MOBILE HOME PARK shall not include automobile or mobile home sales lot on which
unoccupied mobile homes are parked for purposes of inspection and sale and
where the person using or owning such lot is a duly authorized or franchised
dealer in mobile homes.
   UNIT. A section or plot of ground within the boundaries of any mobile home
park including off-street parking space for one automobile and other uses
considered pertinent to the establishment and use of a mobile home residence.
(Prior Code, § 914.01)
§ 152.226 LOCATION OUTSIDE MOBILE HOME PARK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any mobile home on any
street, alley or highway or other public place or on any tract, lot, piece or
parcel of land and whether the same is occupied or unoccupied within the city
limits, except as provided by this chapter.
   (B)   Emergency or temporary stopping or parking is permitted on any street,
alley, highway or lot for not longer than 48 hours subject to any other and
further prohibitions, regulations or limitations imposed by the traffic and
parking regulations or ordinances for that street, alley or highway.
   (C)   No persons shall park or occupy any mobile home on the premises of any
occupied dwelling or upon any lot which is not a part of the premises of any
occupied dwelling either of which is situated outside of an approved mobile
home park except, the parking of only one mobile home, unoccupied, in a private
garage building, or upon the rear of a yard or any occupied dwelling
constructed of conventional wood frame or masonry material is permitted
providing no living quarters shall be maintained or any business practiced in,
or advertising displayed upon said mobile home while such mobile home is so
parked or stored.
   (D)   Temporary special permits may be issued by the City Council for the
temporary use of a mobile home as a dwelling, office or for temporary
advertising or display purposes when said mobile home is located outside of an
authorized mobile home park. Such temporary special permit shall be limited to
periods of not more than 90 days and must be removed at the end of said period.
Not more than two such temporary permits shall be issued consecutively to one
person except upon a showing by such person that a residential building permit
has been applied for, approved and issued on such other special circumstances
as the Council may, in its discretion, deem to be good cause.
(Prior Code, § 914.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.227 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Applications for a permit to establish, construct and maintain a
mobile home park under the provisions of this chapter shall be made to the City
Council.
   (B)   The application for a permit shall be accompanied by five copies of
the mobile home park plan showing the following either existing or proposed:
      (1)   The extent of area proposed for home park purposes;
      (2)   Existing city roads, streets and alleyways adjacent to or abutting
upon the proposed park;
      (3)   The location of sites or units for mobile homes;
      (4)   The location and number of sanitary conveniences proposed to be
placed within the park;
      (5)   Roads, driveways, alleyways and off-street automobile parking
facilities within the boundaries of the proposed park;
      (6)   Proposed street surfacing and lighting; and
      (7)   Such other information as may be requested by the Council.
   (C)   Each application for such permit shall be accompanied by a certificate
of ownership prepared by the owner or operator of such trailer coach park or
all of the property within 300 feet of any boundary line of the proposed home
park site.
   (D)   Each applicant shall be required to pay a fee in an amount set by
Council resolution from time to time at such time such application is filed
with the City Administrator. This money shall be used by the city to defray the
expense of processing such application and of conducting and providing notice
for a public hearing as herein provided.
   (E)   No permit for any mobile home park shall be issued by the City Council
until after a public hearing has been held on the matter by the Council. Such
hearing shall be advertised in the official newspaper of the city for at least
ten days prior to the public hearing. The Council shall mail a notice of said
hearing to each of the property owners shown on the certificate at their last
known address so that they might appear and be heard.
(Prior Code, § 914.03)
§ 152.228 BUILDING PERMIT FOR MOBILE HOME PARK.
   (A)   In addition to an application for a permit to establish a mobile home
park as provided in §
152.227, an application for a zoning permit for the construction of the park
shall conform to the requirements of this chapter generally.
   (B)   Every application for a building permit to construct a mobile home
park or to expand an existing mobile home park shall be accompanied by plans
approved by the State Department of Health showing that the applicant is
complying with all recommendations, suggestions, regulations and laws under the
jurisdiction of that department.
   (C)   The City Council may refer any applications for mobile home park
building permit to the Planning and Zoning Commission of the city for
recommendation.
   (D)   The building permit shall be issued by the City Administrator or his
or her deputy upon approval by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 914.04)
§ 152.229 LOT DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lot size: for homes less than 61 feet in length, the minimum lot size
is 4,400 square feet; for homes greater than 61 feet in length, the minimum lot
size is 5,100 square feet.
   (B)   Lot width: for homes less than 61 feet in length the minimum lot width
is 47 feet; for homes more than 61 feet in length, the minimum lot width is 50
feet.
   (C)   Minimum front yard setbacks: 15 feet for dwellings and 20 feet for
accessory structures.
   (D)   Minimum rear yard setback, dwelling: ten feet.
   (E)   Location of garages: garages shall be separated from structures on the
same lot as is required by the Building Code, and shall be set back from
property lines six feet if facing a home window on the adjacent lot or three
feet in all other cases.
   (F)   Accessory buildings and structures other than garages: these uses are
subject to the same setbacks as garages, 5% of the lot area.
   (G)   Total lot coverage, all buildings and structures: 45%.
   (H)   The recreation space required by the Council for any subdivision shall
be provided in a single consolidated area with a minimum dimension of 150
square feet for every five home lots, with an additional 30 square feet for
each additional lot in the contiguous (no required street crossings) area.
   (I)   All dwellings shall be equipped with an anchoring and support system
as defined and approved by the Minnesota Department of Administration Building
Code Division rules for mobile home support and tie-down systems. All homes
shall bear a seal or label as defined in M.S. § 327.31, Subd. 8 and 13, as they
may be amended from time to time. Dwellings placed on foundations shall have a
minimum width of 20 feet, measured between non-intersecting exterior walls.
   (J)   Each manufactured home lot shall have a mobile home stand with a
surface graded for proper drainage and covered by a paved slab or compacted
earth, gravel or crushed stone. Skirting shall be installed around all sides of
each manufactured home within a manufactured home subdivision. SKIRTING means a
rigid waterproof material designed and installed so as to provide a solid or
visual barrier between the underside of a manufactured home and its stand.
   (K)   Lot sizes smaller than those required in division (A) above may be
permitted if requested during the initial land subdivision review upon finding
that:
      (1)   The developer has demonstrated that the natural or dimensional
characteristics of the tract are such that strict adherence to the minimum lot
size requirement would prevent or interfere with the design of a plan more
appropriate to the land; and
      (2)   The amount of area by which any and all spaces are reduced shall be
consolidated into common open or recreational areas according to a
comprehensive plan for the manufactured home subdivision. The combined area of
manufactured home lots and the common open or recreational areas shall maintain
an average lot area density equal to or greater than the minimum required lot
size.
   (L)   A storm shelter meeting the requirements adopted by the state pursuant
to M.S. § 327.20, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be provided. In
addition, the storm shelter must be constructed to accommodate the following
number of people: the shelter space (no. of people) = 0.75 x no. of dwelling
units x 2.5 people per dwelling unit.
   (M)   A concrete slab or surface patio shall be constructed in either one or
more segments on the ground beside each mobile home parking space; this slab or
patio or slabs or patios shall be not less than 160 square feet and shall be a
minimum of two inches thick.
   (N)   At least one shade tree (minimum diameter of two inches at time of
planting) shall be placed and maintained on each unit.
   (O)   Except for the area used for the mobile home, patio, sidewalk and any
off-street parking space, the entire unit shall be sodded or seeded and
maintained with grass.
   (P)   Each unit shall abut on and have access to a street within the
boundaries of the trailer coach park, which shall be at least 37 feet wide
between gutters. The construction of said street shall conform to the standards
established by the city and specified as a five-ton street. The streets are to
be built and maintained by the owner of the mobile home park. All streets and
ways established by such mobile home park are hereby declared public to the
extent that they shall be under the supervision and control of the police
enforcement powers of the city with respect to traffic laws and such other laws
as shall be applicable to public ways and places.
   (Q)   A curb shall be constructed on each side of the street according to
the specifications required by the City Council.
   (R)   A cement sidewalk, not less than 30 inches wide shall be constructed
adjacent to the concrete curb and on the unit side thereof. This sidewalk shall
be connected to the unit patio by a cement walk of not less than 24 inches in
width.
   (S)   There shall be an unused area of not less than three feet in depth
along each public street or way and this area shall be sodded or planted in
grass.
   (T)   The parking of more than one mobile home on any single unit shall not
be permitted.
   (U)   No mobile home may be inhabited by a greater number of occupants than
that for which it was designed.
   (V)   Water facilities, sewage disposal and street lighting shall be
installed and maintained by the owner of the mobile home park site and shall be
constructed in accordance with the laws of the state, the recommendations of
the State Health Department and the ordinances and requirements of the city.
   (W)   Fire hydrants shall be placed throughout the area in such a way as to
satisfy the district Fire Marshal that adequate fire protection is achieved.
   (X)   All boats, boat trailers, hauling trailers and all other equipment not
stored within the mobile homes or the utility enclosure that may have been
provided shall be stored in a separate place provided by the park owner and not
upon the plots occupied by mobile homes nor upon the streets within the mobile
home park.
(Prior Code, § 914.05)
§ 152.230 RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Where natural gas or other central fuel supply system is not provided
by the mobile home park owner for use by each mobile home within the park,
individual fuel containers shall be firmly fixed to metal stands.
   (B)   The owner of the trailer coach park shall cause the rear inside
boundary lines thereof to be planted with shrubbery or trees so as to
effectively delineate the boundaries of the trailer coach park and to create a
buffer zone between such park and any adjacent or abutting residential homes
except that such landscaping shall not be required where interference with the
free and unobstructed ingress and egress to said trailer home park or where
such landscaping is in conflict with existing city ordinances.
   (C)   The owner or occupant of any mobile home parked upon or within an
approved mobile home park shall cause such mobile home to be skirted around the
bottom thereof with a non-combustible or fire resistant material so as to
enclose the space between the floor or bottom of such mobile home and the
ground.
   (D)   No construction of any foyer, vestibule or other accessory structure
constructed, placed or erected outside of the mobile home and placed upon the
unit shall be permitted except upon the approval of the City Council being
first obtained.
   (E)   The removal of running gear or wheels from any mobile home placed
within any approved mobile home park shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 914.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.231 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Mayor who may
institute in the name of the city any appropriate actions or proceedings
against a violator as provided by law.
   (B)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to
comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this
chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day a violation continues to
exist will constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable and
any section, division, clause or provision which may be declared by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid shall not render any other section,
division, clause or provision or the whole of this chapter invalid or
unconstitutional.
   (D)   The City Council shall have the power to revoke any mobile home park
permit which as heretofore or hereafter shall be issued to any person failing
to conform to the requirements of this chapter or to any other municipal or
state law applicable.
(Prior Code, § 914.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.232 RIGHT TO MODIFY.
   The City Council shall have the right to vary or modify the strict
application of any of the regulations or provisions contained in this chapter,
in cases in which there is practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in
the way of strict application.
(Prior Code, § 914.08)
TEMPORARY DWELLINGS
§ 152.245 OPT-OUT OF M.S. § 462.3593.
   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, Subd. 9, as it may be
amended from time to time, the city opts out of the requirements of M.S. §
462.3593, as it may be amended from time to time, which defines and regulates
temporary family health care dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 915.00)
§ 152.246 SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES LOCATION REGULATION.
   (A)   Defined. A sexually-oriented business under this section shall be
defined as provided for in the code of ordinances, and specifically the
sexually-oriented business licensing ordinance (Chapter 113).
   (B)   Conditional use permits.
      (1)   Sexually-oriented businesses shall be considered conditional uses
and may be permitted only within qualifying areas of B-1 Service District, B-
2 General District, I-1 Limited Industrial District or I-2 General Industrial
District.
      (2)   No sexually-oriented business may be granted a conditional use
permit under this section unless it has applied for and received a license
under the sexually-oriented business ordinance (
Chapter 113). Application for the sexually-oriented business license and a
conditional use permit may happen concurrently or a conditional use permit may
be granted under this section subject to the applicant receiving a license
pursuant to the sexually-oriented business ordinance (
Chapter 113). An applicant for a conditional use permit under this section
shall also include a copy of the application for the license under the
sexually-oriented business ordinance (
Chapter 113) with the application under this subchapter.
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   No sexually-oriented business may be located or operated within
1,500 feet of:
         (a)   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related activities;
         (b)   A public or private educational facility, including, but not
limited to, child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges and universities; school includes the school grounds, but does not
include facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as
a school;
         (c)   A boundary of a residential district as defined in the Zoning
Code;
         (d)   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but limited to, a park, playground,
nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball or tennis
courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness areas or other similar public land
within the city which is under the control, operation or management of the city
park and recreation authorities;
         (e)   A public theater;
         (f)   A shopping center;
         (g)   An airport;
         (h)   A senior housing facility;
         (i)   A hospital;
         (j)   A medical clinic; or
         (k)   A care center.
      (2)   Measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to the
intervening structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building of
structure used as the part of the premises where a sexually-oriented business
is conducted, to the nearest property line of the premises of a use listed
above. Presence of a city, county or other political subdivision boundary shall
be irrelevant for purposes of calculating and applying the distance
requirements of this section. Such distance shall be measured across property
lines, regardless of ownership of the property.
   (D)   Location near other sexually-oriented businesses.
      (1)   The operation, establishment, substantial establishment or transfer
of ownership or control of a sexually-oriented business may not occur within
1,500 feet of another sexually-oriented business. In addition, there shall not
be more than one sexually-oriented business within a block front even if said
block is greater than 1,500 feet in length. The operation, establishment or
maintenance of more than one sexually-oriented business in the same building,
structure or portion thereof, or the increase of floor area of any sexually-
oriented business in any building, structure or portion thereof containing
another sexually-oriented business, is prohibited.
      (2)   The distance between any two sexually-oriented businesses shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or
objects or political boundaries, from the closest exterior wall of the
structure in which each business is located.
   (E)   Severability. In the event any section, division, clause, phrase or
portion of this chapter is for any reason held illegal, invalid or
unconstitutional by any court or competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be
deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall
not affect the validity of the remainder of this chapter. It is the legislative
intent of the City Council that this chapter would have been adopted if such
illegal provision had not been included or any illegal application had not been
made.
(Prior Code, § 915.01)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section              Code Section
Ch. 13                    30.12
13.02, Subd. 16           30.13
13.37(b)                  94.21
Ch. 13D                   30.01;
                          30.11
13D.04, Subd. 2           30.01
14.57 to 14.69            111.04
18.75 et seq.             93.35
18.77, Subd. 8            93.37
18.83, Subd. 2            93.37
18G.07                    93.02
65B.01 to 65B.12          71.32
65B.48, Subd. 5           71.32
84.86                     71.15
84.862                    71.15
Ch. 84D                   93.35
Ch. 88                    93.55
89.001                    93.02
89.01                     93.02
89.51 through 89.64       93.02
144.411 et seq.           111.20
144.50                    152.002
Ch. 152                   113.01
157.15, Subd. 9           114.02
160.22                    93.02
168B.011, Subd. 2         90.15
168B.011, Subd. 3         90.15;
                          93.20
168B.011, Subd. 4         90.15
168B.07                   90.15
168B.08                   90.15
Ch. 169                   71.33
169.01                    70.01
169.045                   71.30
169.222                   71.01
169.522                   71.33
169.70                    71.33
169.999                   10.98
216B.02, Subd. 4          94.02
216B.02, Subd. 6          94.02
216D.01 through 216D.09   94.14;
                          94.24
237.162                   94.46
Ch. 238                   94.02
301B.01                   94.02
326B.101 through 325B.194 150.02
326B.148                  150.05
327.20                    152.229
327.31, Subd. 8           152.229
327.31, Subd. 13          152.229
331.01                    94.05
Ch. 340A                  111.15
340A.101, Subd. 7         111.16
                          111.17;
340A.409                  111.36;
                          111.37
340A.409, Subd. 1         111.37
340A.412, Subd. 3         111.01
340A.504                  111.20;
                          111.40
340A.801                  111.37
340A.802                  111.37
343.22                    91.27
343.29                    91.27
429.061                   93.02;
                          93.24
429.101                   93.02;
                          93.24
462.354, Subd. 1          32.45
462.355, Subd. 3          151.004
462.358, Subd. 4          151.054
462.3593                  Ch. 152;
                          152.245
462.3593, Subd. 9         152.245
462C.16                   34.01
462C.16, Subd. 3          34.01;
                          34.03
462C.16, Subd. 4          34.03
463.15 through 463.26     93.01
463.17                    93.23
514.67                    93.01
609.293 to 609.365        113.01
617.23 to 617.296         113.01
626.862                   10.20
631.48                    10.99
                          
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rules Section Code Section
Minn. Rules Section Code Section
1205.1000           30.14
Ch. 1300            150.03
Ch. 1301            150.03
Ch. 1302            150.03
Ch. 1305            150.03
Ch. 1307            150.03
Ch. 1315            150.03
Ch. 1322            150.03
Ch. 1323            150.03
Ch. 1325            150.03
Ch. 1335            150.03
Ch. 1346            150.03
Ch. 1350            150.03
Ch. 1360            150.03
Ch. 1361            150.03
Ch. 1370            150.03
Ch. 4714            150.03
Ch. 7030            93.18
                    
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
201.01             30.01
201.02             30.02
201.03             30.03
201.04             30.04
201.05             30.05
201.06             30.06
201.07             30.07
201.08             30.08
201.09             30.09
201.10             30.10
202.01             31.15
202.02             31.16
202.03             31.17
202.04             31.18
202.05             31.19
202.06             31.20
202.07             31.21
203.01             32.01
203.02             32.02
203.03             32.03
203.04             32.04
203.05             32.05
203.06             32.06
204.01             32.20
204.02             32.21
204.03             32.22
204.04             32.23
204.05             32.24
204.06             32.25
204.07             32.26
204.08             32.27
204.09             32.28
204.10             32.29
204.11             32.30
205.01             32.45
205.02             32.46
205.03             32.47
205.04             32.48
Ch. 2, Part 6      31.01
207.01             31.02
301.01             94.01
301.02             94.02
301.03             94.03
301.04             94.04
301.05             94.05
301.06             94.06
301.07             94.07
301.08             94.08
301.09             94.09
301.10             94.10
301.11             94.11
301.12             94.12
301.13             94.13
301.14             94.14
301.15             94.15
301.16             94.16
301.17             94.17
301.18             94.18
301.19             94.19
301.20             94.20
301.21             94.21
301.22             94.22
301.23             94.23
301.24             94.24
301.25             94.25
301.26             94.26
301.27             94.27
301.28             94.28
301.29             94.29
301.30             94.30
301.31             94.31
301.32             94.45—
                   94.50
302.01             95.01
302.02             95.02
302.03             95.03
302.05             95.15
302.07             95.16
401.01             50.01
401.02             50.02
401.03             50.03
401.04             50.04
402.01             51.01
402.02             51.02
402.03             51.03
402.05             51.04;
                   51.05
403.01             52.01
403.02             52.02
403.03             52.03
403.04             52.04
403.05             52.05
501.01             110.01
501.02             110.02
501.03             110.03
501.04             110.04
501.05             110.05
501.06             110.06
501.07             110.07
502.01             53.01
502.02             53.02
502.03             53.03
502.04             53.04
502.05             53.05
503.01             91.20
503.02             91.21
503.03             91.22
503.04             91.23
503.05             91.24
503.06             91.25
503.07             91.26
503.08             91.27
504.01             91.01
504.02             91.02
504.03             91.03
504.04             91.04
504.05             91.05
504.06             91.06
504.07             91.07
504.08             91.08
505.01             150.01
505.02             150.02
505.03             150.03
505.04             150.04
505.05             150.05
505.06             150.06
505.07             150.07
507.01             92.01
507.02             92.02
507.03             92.03
507.04             92.04
507.05             92.05
507.06             92.06
507.07             92.07
507.08             92.08
507.09             92.09
507.10             92.10
508.01             113.01
508.02             113.02
508.03             113.03
508.04             113.04
508.05             113.05
508.06             113.06
508.07             113.07
508.08             113.08
509.01             112.01
509.02             112.02
509.03             112.03
509.04             112.04
509.05             112.05
509.06             112.06
509.07             112.07
509.08             112.08
509.09             112.09
509.10             112.10
509.11             112.11
509.13             112.12
601.01             111.15
601.02             111.16
601.03             111.17
601.04             111.18
601.05             111.19
601.06             111.20
601.07             111.21
602.01             111.35
602.02             111.36
602.03             111.37
602.04             111.38
602.05             111.39
602.06             111.40
602.07             111.41
603.01             111.01
603.02             111.02
603.03             111.03
603.04             111.04
701.01             70.01
701.02             70.02
701.03             70.03
701.04             70.04
701.05             70.05
701.06             70.06
701.07             70.07
701.08             70.08
701.09             70.09
701.10             70.99
701.11             70.10
701.12             70.11
702.01             71.15;
                   71.99
703.01             71.01
704.01             71.30
704.02             71.31
704.03             71.32;
                   71.99
704.04             71.33
704.05             71.34
704.06             71.35
704.07             71.36
802.01             130.01
803.01             130.02
804.01             90.02
805.01             90.01
805.02             90.01
805.03             90.01
808.01             90.15
808.02             90.16
Ch. 9, Part 1      152.001
901.01             152.002
902.01             152.020
902.03             152.021
903.01             152.003;
                   152.005
903.02             152.003
903.03             152.002;
                   152.004
903.05             152.006
903.07             152.007
904.01             152.035
904.02             152.036
904.03             152.037
904.04             152.038
904.05             152.039
905.01             152.050
905.02             152.051
905.03             152.052
905.04             152.053
905.05             152.054
905.06             152.055
905.07             152.056
905.08             152.057
905.09             152.058
905.10             152.059
905.11             152.060
906.01             152.075
906.02             152.076
906.03             152.077
906.04             152.078
906.05             152.079
906.06             152.080
907.01             152.095
907.02             152.096
907.03             152.097
907.04             152.098
907.05             152.099
907.06             152.100
907.07             152.101
907.08             152.102
908.01             152.115
908.02             152.116
908.03             152.117
908.04             152.118
908.05             152.119
908.06             152.120
908.07             152.121
908.08             152.122
908.09             152.123
909.01             152.135
909.02             152.136
909.03             152.137
909.04             152.138
909.05             152.139
910.01             152.150
910.02             152.151
910.03             152.152
910.04             152.153
910.05             152.154
910.06             152.155
910.07             152.156
911.01             152.175
911.02             152.176
911.03             152.177
911.04             152.178
912.01             152.190
912.02             152.191
912.03             152.192
912.04             152.193
913.01             152.205
913.02             152.206
913.03             152.207
913.04             152.208
913.05             152.209
913.06             152.210
914.01             152.225
914.02             152.226
914.03             152.227
914.04             152.228
914.05             152.229
914.06             152.230
914.07             152.231
914.08             152.232
915.00             152.245
915.01             152.246
Ch. 10             33.01
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
12-03    9-26-2012   50.04
12-04    10-10-2012  30.09
13-02    3-13-2013   30.01—
                     30.03
13-03    4-10-2013   32.22
13-04    4-10-2013   32.45—
                     32.48
13-05    10-23-2013  32.45—
                     32.48
01-09    12-11-2013  113.01—
                     113.08
                     71.30—
14-01    5-28-2014   71.36;
                     71.99
2018-02  8-22-2018   31.01
                     151.001—
                     151.015;
                     151.030—
                     151.037;
—      10-13-2021  151.050—
                     151.054;
                     151.065—
                     151.072;
                     151.085—
                     151.091
2022-02  10-12-2022  30.01
2023-03  12-27-2023  95.02
2023-04  12-27-2023  33.01
2025-02  6-11-2025   114.01—
                     114.05
2025-03  8-27-2025   34.01—
                     34.06
                    
 
 
