Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by the City
of Lino Lakes. The table includes links to the ordinances, as maintained in PDF
format. For other legislation, including ordinances passed prior to August
2024, please contact the City of Lino Lakes.
 
Ordinances that amend the Code and are not yet CODIFIED have their identifiying
information highlighted in yellow. Changes made by those ordinances are not
incorporated into the text of the Code until the amending ordinances are
effective. Ordinances that do not affect the code have been grayed out.
 
Jump to:
2024 Legislation
2025 Legislation
2024 LEGISLATION
Ord. No. Adopt.. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.   Adopt.. Date          Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                                 Creating moratorium on new lots for
Ord._11-24 7/18/24               residential purposes in certain parts of the
                                 City
                                 Vacating a drainage and utility easement
Ord._12-24 8/26/24                
                                 TSO IV
Res._12-24 8/26/24               Approving a summary of ord. 12-24 for
                                 publication
                                 Vacating a portion of 77th St.
Ord._14-24 11/25/24               
                                 TSO III
                                 Vacating a drainage and utility easement
Ord._15-24 11/25/24               
                                 TSO IV
                                 Repeal and Replace of Chapter 218 (Fee
Ord._16-24 11/12/24, eff. 1/1/25 Schedule)
                                  
                                 Ch. 218
                                 Rezoning certain property from NB to GB for
Ord._17-24 11/25/24              Line Ratail 2.0.
                                  
                                 TSO V
 
 
2025 LEGISLATION
Ord. No. Adopt.. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.   Adopt.. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                        Amending Ch. 617 regarding regulation of cannabis
Ord._01-25 2/4/25       businesses.
                         
                        Chapter 617
                        Amending Ch. 1007 regarding the regulation and zoning
                        of cannabis businesses.
Ord._02-25 3/10/25       
                        1007.001, 1007.100, 1007.130, 1007.131, 1007.132,
                        1007.140, 1007.141, 1007.142
                        Amending Ch. 218 regarding cannabis business
Ord._03-25 3/10/25      registration fees.
                         
                        218.01
                        Franchise extension agreement.
Ord._04-25 3/10/25       
                        TSO II
Res._25-33 3/10/25      Approving summary of Ord. 02-25 for publication.
                        Vacating, drainage, and utility easements 70th Street
Ord._05-25 4/28/25      and Otter Lake Service Road
                         
                        TSO IV
                        Repealing Ch. 208 regarding the Public Safety
Ord._06-25 5/27/25      Department.
                         
                        Chapter 208
Ord._07-25 5/27/25      Providing for a police department.
Ord._08-25 5/27/25      Providing for a fire department.
                        Rezoning certain real property from R-X to PUD.
Ord._09-25 5/27/25       
                        TSO V
                        Rezoning certain real property from R to PUD.
Ord._10-25 6/9/25        
                        TSO V
                        Vacating drainage and utility easement.
Ord._11-25 6/23/25       
                        TSO IV
                        Regulating pet stores.
Ord._12-25 7/14/25       
                        Ch. 503
                        Rezoning certain real property from R to R-2.
Ord._13-25 7/28/25       
                        TSO V
                        Amending Ch. 218.01(10)(E) relating to special
Ord._14-25 8/11/25      connection fees.
                         
                        218.01
                        Amending Ch. 203 adjusting the salaries of the Mayor
Ord._15-25 9/8/25       and Councilmembers.
                         
                        203.01
                       
 
 
CHARTER
LINO LAKES HOME RULE CHARTER
   ENACTED BY VOTE ON JANUARY 12, 1982
   UPDATED JANUARY 13, 2014
CHAPTER   CONTENTS
1.   Name, Boundaries, Powers, and General Provisions
   
1.01   Name and boundaries
   
1.02   Powers of the city
   
1.03   Charter a public act
2.   Form of Government
   
2.01   Form of government
   
2.02   Boards and commissions
   
2.03   Council composition and election
   
2.04   Incompatible offices
   
2.05   Vacancies
   
2.06   The Mayor
   
2.07   Salaries
   
2.08   Investigation of city affairs
3.   Council Procedure
   
3.01   Council meetings
   
3.02   Liaison function
   
3.03   Rules of procedure and quorum
   
3.04   Ordinances, resolutions and motions
   
3.05   Procedure on ordinances
   
3.06   Emergency ordinances
   
3.07   Signing and publication of ordinances
   
3.08   Procedure on resolutions
   
3.09   When ordinances and resolutions take effect
   
3.10   Amendment and repeal of ordinances and resolutions
   
3.11   Review and revision of ordinances and indexing of resolutions
   
3.12   Secretary of Council
4.   Nominations and Elections
   
4.01   The regular municipal election
   
4.02   Filing for office
   
4.03   Procedure at elections
   
4.04   Special and advisory elections except for elected office
   
4.05   Vacancy of municipal elected office
5.   Initiative, Referendum and Recall
   
5.01   Power reserved by the people
   
5.02   General provisions for petitions
   
5.03   Determination of sufficiency
   
5.04   Disposition of insufficient or irregular petition
   
5.05   Initiative
   
5.06   Initiative to amend the Charter
   
5.07   Referendum
   
5.08   Recall
6.   Administration of City Affairs
   
6.01   Administration responsibility
   
6.02   Administrative organization
   
6.03   City Administrator
   
6.04   City Clerk
   
6.05   City Treasurer
   
6.06   Basis for hiring and removal
7.   Taxation and Finances
   
7.01   Council to control finances
   
7.02   Fiscal year
   
7.03   System of taxation
   
7.04   Submission of budget
   
7.05   The five-year financial plan
   
7.06   Council action on budget
   
7.07   Enforcement of the budget
   
7.08   Alterations in the budget
   
7.09   Funds
   
7.10   City indebtedness
   
7.11   Anticipation certificates
   
7.12   Emergency debt certificates
8.   Public Improvements and Special Assessments
   
8.01   Power to make improvements and levy assessments
   
8.02   Effective Charter provisions, except as provided in Section 8.07
   
8.03   Local improvement ordinances and regulations
   
8.04   Special assessment procedure
   
8.05   Assessments for services
   
8.06   Improvement petition; waiting period waiver
   
8.07   Local improvement; special provisions
9.   Eminent Domain
   
9.01   Acquisition of property
10.   Franchises
   
10.01   Franchises generally
   
10.02   Term
   
10.03   Public hearing
   
10.04   Power of regulation reserved
   
10.05   Renewals or extensions
11.   Public Ownership and Operation of Utilities
   
11.01   Acquisition and operation of utilities
   
11.02   Rates and finances
   
11.03   Purchase in bulk
   
11.04   Lease of plant
   
11.05   Public utility; how sold
   
11.06   Notice of public hearing
12.   Miscellaneous and Transitory Provisions
   
12.01   Official publication
   
12.02   Oath of office
   
12.03   Code of conduct
   
12.04   Official bonds
   
12.05   Sales of real property
   
12.06   Vacation of streets
   
12.07   City to succeed to right and obligations of former city
   
12.08   Existing ordinances and resolutions continued
   
12.09   Officers to continue for present terms
   
12.10   Pending condemnations and assessments
   
12.11   Ordinance to make Charter effective
   
12.12   City communication
   
12.13   Effective date
   
12.14   Severability
CHAPTER 1.  NAME, BOUNDARIES, POWERS, AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 1.01.  NAME AND BOUNDARIES.
   The City of Lino Lakes, Anoka County, Minnesota shall continue to be a
municipal corporation under that name and with the same boundaries as now are
or hereafter may be established. The City Administrator shall maintain in each
copy of this Charter which he/she keeps in his/her office an accurate, up-to-
date description of the boundaries of the City. The City Council shall
establish by Ordinance (1) the number of copies of this Charter, with
amendments, that the City Administrator shall keep in his/her office and (2)
the policy by which requests for this Charter, with amendment shall be
processed. The copies of the Charter, amendments, and boundary descriptions
which the City Administrator has, as well as all official City documents,
unless restricted by law, shall be available for public inspection anytime
during regular office hours.
SECTION 1.02.  POWERS OF THE CITY.
   The City shall have all the powers which it may now or hereafter be possible
for a municipal corporation in this State to exercise in harmony with this
Charter and with the Constitution of this State and of the United States. It is
the intention of this Charter to confer upon the City every power which it
would have if it were specifically mentioned, unless provided in this Charter.
The Charter shall be construed liberally in favor of the City, and the specific
mention of particular municipal powers in other sections of this Charter does
not limit the powers of the City to those thus mentioned. Unless granted to
some other officer or body, all powers are vested in the City Council.
SECTION 1.03.  CHARTER A PUBLIC ACT.
   This Charter shall be a public act and need not be pleaded or proved in any
case and shall be effective immediately after its adoption.
CHAPTER 2.  FORM OF GOVERNMENT
SECTION 2.01.  FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of Government established by this Charter is the “Mayor-Council
Plan”. Except as otherwise provided by state law or this Charter, all powers of
the City are vested in the Council.
SECTION 2.02.  BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   There shall be no separate Administrative Board of Health, Library Board, or
any Administrative Board or Commission. The Council shall itself be and perform
the duties and exercise the powers of such boards and commissions provided for
by state law. The Council may, however establish by ordinance boards,
commissions, or committees to advise the Council with respect to any Municipal
function or activity, to investigate any subject of interest to the City, or to
perform quasijudicial functions.
SECTION 2.03.  COUNCIL COMPOSITION AND ELECTION.
   The Council shall be composed of a Mayor and four (4) Council Members who
shall be qualified electors and who shall be elected at large. Council Members
shall serve for a term of four (4) years and/or until a successor is elected
and qualifies. The Mayor shall serve for a term of two (2) years and/or until a
successor is elected and qualifies.
SECTION 2.04.  INCOMPATIBLE OFFICES.
   No member of the Council shall be a member of the City Charter Commission,
hold any paid municipal office or employment through the City other than that
to which elected. Further, until one (1) year after the expiration of his/her
term, no Mayor or Council Member shall be appointed or employed by the city in
a compensated position which was created, or the compensation for which was
increased, during his/her term as Mayor or Council Member.
(Amended 11-7-2006; Effective 12-7-2006)
SECTION 2.05.  VACANCIES.
   A vacancy in the Council, whether it be in the office of the Mayor or
Council Member, shall be deemed to exist in case of the failure of any person
elected thereto to qualify, or by reason of the death, resignation in writing
filed with the City Clerk, removal from office, non-residence in the City,
conviction of a felony of any such person after his/her election, or failure
without good cause to attend Council meetings for a period of three (3)
consecutive months. In each such case the Council shall by resolution declare
the vacancy to exist and such vacancy shall be filled according to the
provisions of Section 4.05.
(Amended 5-27-2003)
SECTION 2.06.  THE MAYOR.
Subdivision 1.   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council and shall
have a vote as a member. The Mayor shall be recognized as the head of the City
government for all ceremonial purposes, by the courts for the purpose of
serving civil process, and by the Governor for purposes of martial law, but
shall have no administrative duties. Consistent with the responsibility to
accept considerable leadership over the general conduct of City affairs, the
Mayor shall study the administration of the City, report any irregularities to
the Council from time to time and recommend desirable changes. The Mayor shall
also deliver messages to the Council and the public, including a comprehensive
message on the State of the City as soon as practicable after the beginning of
each year of his/her term of office.
Subdivision 2.   At its first meeting each year the Council shall choose an
Acting Mayor to assume the office during the disability or absence of the
Mayor, or, in case of vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a successor has
been elected or appointed and qualifies.
Subdivision 3.   In time of public danger or emergency the Mayor may, with the
consent of three (3) council members, take command of the Police, maintain
order, and enforce the law.
SECTION 2.07.  SALARIES.
   The Mayor and Council Members shall receive such compensation as is fixed by
the Council in accordance with state law. Any increases in such compensation
shall be available in accordance with applicable state law. Other officers and
employees of the City shall receive such salaries or wages as may be fixed by
the Council.
SECTION 2.08.  INVESTIGATION OF CITY AFFAIRS.
   The Council may make investigations into City affairs and the conduct of any
City department, office or agency and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses,
administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. The
Council shall provide for an audit of the City’s accounts for at least once a
year by the State Department in charge of such work or by a certified public
accountant. At any time the Council may provide for an examination or audit of
the City accounts of any City officer or agency, and it may provide for any
survey or research study of any subject of municipal concern.
CHAPTER 3. COUNCIL PROCEDURE
SECTION 3.01.  COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The Council shall meet regularly at such times and places as the Council
shall designate by ordinance. The Mayor or two members of the Council may call
special meetings of the Council upon at least twenty-four (24) hours notice to
each member, and such reasonable public notice as may be prescribed by Council
rule in compliance with the laws of Minnesota. The twenty-four (24) hours
notice shall not be required in an emergency. To the extent provided by law,
all meetings of the Council and its committees shall be public, and any citizen
shall have access to the minutes and records of the Council at all reasonable
times. During any of its public meetings, the Council shall not prohibit, but
may place reasonable restrictions upon citizen’s comments and questions.
SECTION 3.02.  LIAISON FUNCTION.
   Council Members shall be assigned as liaison to necessary areas, both
internal and external to the City. Their assignments shall be rotated
periodically and shall involve no administrative responsibility.
SECTION 3.03.  RULES OF PROCEDURE AND QUORUM.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, the Council shall determine
its own rules and order of business. A majority of all members shall constitute
a quorum to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time.
The Council may by rule provide means by which a minority may compel the
attendance of absent members in accordance with state law.
SECTION 3.04.  ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
Subdivision 1.   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter or state law, an
affirmative vote of three (3) or more members of the Council shall be required
for the adoption of all ordinances, resolutions, and motions. The votes of
Council Members on any action taken shall be recorded in accordance with state
law.
Subdivision 2.   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, all legislation
shall be by ordinance. The vote on all ordinances shall be by a roll call vote.
Subdivision 3.   The general administrative business of the Council shall be
conducted by resolution or motion.
Subdivision 4.   The following standards shall apply to administrative and
legislative Council actions: (1) Administrative actions shall be those acts
which connote or pertain to conducting, directing, or superintending the
execution, application, use or conduct of City ordinances, property, or
employees; (2) legislative actions shall be those actions which are the
exercise of power and function of making laws and other rules having the force
of authority.
Subdivision 5.   The Council shall not enact or permit to exist ordinances
which grant legislative power or discretion to itself.
(Amended)
SECTION 3.05.  PROCEDURE ON ORDINANCES.
   Every proposed ordinance shall be presented in writing and read in full
before adoption, unless the reading is dispensed with by unanimous consent of
the Council. No ordinance shall contain more than one (1) subject. Such subject
shall be clearly expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be: “The
Council of Lino Lakes ordains”. No ordinance except an emergency ordinance,
shall be adopted at a meeting at which it is introduced and at least fourteen
(14) days shall elapse between its introduction and final adoption.
SECTION 3.06.  EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   An emergency ordinance is an ordinance necessary for the immediate
preservation of public peace, health, morals, safety or welfare, in which
ordinance the emergency is defined and declared in a preamble thereto. An
emergency ordinance must be approved by a majority of available members of the
City Council. An emergency ordinance must be in writing but may be enacted
without previous filing or voting, and may be adopted finally at the meeting at
which it is first introduced and voted upon by the Council. An emergency
ordinance shall remain in effect for the duration of the emergency. No
prosecution shall be based upon the provisions of an emergency ordinance until
twenty four (24) hours after the ordinance has been adopted, filed with the
City Clerk and has either been posted in three (3) conspicuous places in the
City, or published as provided for in this Charter, or the person charged with
the violation thereof had actual notice of the ordinance prior to the act or
omission resulting in the prosecution.
(Amended 5-27-2003)
SECTION 3.07.  SIGNING AND PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   Every ordinance adopted by the Council shall be signed by the Mayor, and
attested to, filed, and preserved by the City Clerk. Every ordinance shall be
published at least once in the official newspaper as soon as practicable and
such publication may be by summary of its contents as provided by state law.
To the extent and in the manner provided by law, an ordinance may incorporate
by reference the following published material, or part thereof, without
publishing the material in full: (a) State Laws; (b) State Administrative Rules
and Regulations; (c) State or Municipal Codes; or (d) Municipal ordinances.
(Amended 5-27-2003)
SECTION 3.08.  PROCEDURE ON RESOLUTIONS.
   Every resolution shall be presented in writing and read in full before
adoption, unless the reading is dispensed with by unanimous consent of the
Council.
SECTION 3.09.  WHEN ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS TAKE EFFECT.
   Every emergency ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its adoption or
at such later date as it specifies. Every resolution shall take effect fourteen
(14) days after its adoption or at such later date as it specifies. Every other
ordinance shall take effect thirty (30) days after its publication or at such
later date as it specifies.
SECTION 3.10.  AMENDMENT AND REPEAL OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
Subdivision 1.   An ordinance or resolution which repeals all or part of a
previous ordinance or resolution shall give the number, if any, and the title
of the ordinance or resolution to be repealed in whole or in part. No ordinance
or resolution shall be amended by reference to the title alone, but an
ordinance or resolution which amends such ordinance or resolution shall set
forth in full each section or subdivision to be amended and shall indicate by
appropriate type or symbols matter to be omitted or added. Amendment or repeal
of an ordinance shall require a majority vote of all the members of the
Council, unless otherwise provided in this Charter or by state law.
Subdivision 2.   An ordinance passed under the initiative power shall not be
repealed or amended by the Council except by submission to the voters of the
question by the Council at a regular or special election.
(Amended)   
SECTION 3.11.  REVIEW AND REVISION OF ORDINANCES AND INDEXING OF RESOLUTIONS.
Subdivision 1.   The Council shall establish by ordinance a procedure to
review, revise and rearrange its ordinance code and its resolution index with
such additions and deletions as may be deemed necessary by the Council. The
ordinance code and the resolution index may be published in a book, pamphlet,
or loose-leaf form, and copies shall be made available by the Council at the
office of the City Administrator for general distribution to the public for a
reasonable charge. Incorporation in such a code shall be sufficient publication
of any ordinance provision not previously published, if a notice is placed in
the official newspaper for at least two (2) successive weeks that copies of the
codification are available at the office of the City Administrator.
Subdivision 2.   The Council shall by ordinance establish a procedure by which
all special use permits can be reviewed on a regular basis.
SECTION 3.12.  SECRETARY OF COUNCIL.
   The City Clerk shall act as Secretary of the Council. He/she shall keep a
journal of Council proceedings and perform such other duties as this Charter or
the Council may require. The Council may designate any other City official or
employee except the City Administrator or a Council Member to act as Secretary
of the Council.
(Amended 5-27-2003)
CHAPTER 4. NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
SECTION 4.01.  THE REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTION.
   A regular municipal election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the
first Monday in November of each odd numbered year commencing in 1983 at such
places as the City Council shall designate. At least fifteen (15) days prior
notice shall be given by City Clerk by posting a notice thereof in at least
once (1) public place in each election precinct, and by publishing a notice
thereof at least once in the official newspaper of the City stating the time
and the places of holding such election and of the officers to be elected.
Failure to give such notice shall not invalidate such election. Elected and
qualified officers provided for by this Charter shall assume the duties of
office to which they were elected on the first business day in January
following such election.
(Amended 5-27-2003)
SECTION 4.02.  FILING FOR OFFICE.
   Before any municipal election, any resident of the City qualified under
state law for elective office may, by filing an affidavit and by paying a
filing fee to the City Clerk in an amount as set by ordinance, or by means
otherwise permitted by state law, have his/her name placed on the municipal
election ballot. The filing period shall be as established by Minnesota state
law for statutory cities.
(Amended 11-25-1988; Amended 5-27-2003; Ord. 04-13, passed 1-13-2014)
SECTION 4.03.  PROCEDURE AT ELECTIONS.
   Consistent with the provisions of this Charter and applicable state laws,
the Council may by ordinance further regulate the conduct of municipal
elections. Except as otherwise provided by this Charter and supplementary
ordinances. General state laws on elections shall apply to municipal elections.
SECTION 4.04.  SPECIAL AND ADVISORY ELECTIONS EXCEPT FOR ELECTED OFFICE.
   The Council may by resolution order a special or advisory election and
provide all means for holding it. At least fifteen (15) days prior notice shall
be given by the City Clerk by posting a notice thereof in at least one (1)
public place in each election precinct, and by publishing a notice thereof at
least once in the official newspaper of the City by stating the time and places
of holding such election. Failure to give such notice shall not invalidate such
election.
(Amended 5-27-2003)
SECTION 4.05.  VACANCY OF MUNICIPAL ELECTED OFFICE.
Subdivision 1.   When a vacancy in an elected office of the City occurs with
three hundred sixty five (365) days or more remaining in the term of the
vacated office, there shall be a special election held within ninety (90) days
after the vacancy occurs to elect a successor to serve for the remainder of the
unexpired term of the office vacated.
Subdivision 2.   The City Clerk shall give at least sixty (60) days published
prior notice of such special election, except as set forth under Subdivision 5
of this section.
(Amended 8-9-1982; Amended 5-27-2003)
Subdivision 3.   The procedure at such election and assumption of duties of
elected officers following such election shall conform as nearly as practicable
to that prescribed for other municipal elections under this Charter.
Subdivision 4.   In case of a vacancy where there remains less than three
hundred sixty five (365) days but more than one hundred twenty (120) days in
the unexpired term, the Mayor or Acting Mayor shall appoint, with the approval
of the Council, a successor to serve for the remainder of said term.
Subdivision 5.   When a vacancy in an elected municipal office occurs within
one hundred twenty (120) days prior to a regular municipal election date, the
special election to fill the vacancy shall coincide with the regular election.
If the vacancy occurs within (60) days prior to the regular election date, the
notice of such vacancy shall be published as soon as is practical. If, within
the one hundred twenty (120) days period before a regular municipal election,
the vacancy occurs in the office of the Mayor or in the office of either or
both of the Council Members whose seats are to be decided in the election, said
vacancy shall be considered not to exist for purposes of the election, however,
if such vacancy occurs in the office of either of the other two (2) Council
Members, the seat shall be filled by the candidate for Council Member with the
third highest vote total, or, in the case of two (2) vacancies, the third and
fourth highest vote totals. Where two (2) vacancies exist, the candidate with
the third highest total shall fill the vacancy in the office having the longest
unexpired term.
Subdivision 6.   If there are insufficient numbers of candidates in a regular
or special election to fill expiring or vacated municipal offices, the City
Council shall fill said offices by appointment until the next regular municipal
election. In the case of a tie vote of the Council, the Mayor shall make said
appointment.
CHAPTER 5.  INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM AND RECALL
SECTION 5.01.  POWER RESERVED BY THE PEOPLE.
   The people of Lino Lakes reserve to themselves the powers in accordance with
the provisions of this Charter to initiate and adopt ordinances, to require
ordinances passed by the Council to be referred to the electorate for approval
or disapproval, and to recall elected public officials. These powers shall be
called the initiative, the referendum, and the recall, respectively. (Amended)
SECTION 5.02.  GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR PETITIONS.
Subdivision 1.   A petition provided for under this Chapter shall be sponsored
by a committee of five (5) registered voters of the City whose names and
addresses shall appear on the petition. For initiative and referendum, a
petition may consist of one (1) or more papers, but each separately circulated
paper shall contain at its head or attached thereto the exact text of the
proposed ordinance or matter to be considered by the voters. A recall petition
must contain at the head of each page, or attached thereto, a certificate
stating the name of the officer whose removal is sought, the grounds for such
recall in not more than two hundred fifty (250) words, and the intention of the
sponsoring committee to bring about the officer’s recall.
Subdivision 2.   Each signer shall be a registered voter of the City and shall
sign his/her name and give his/her street address. Each separate page of the
petition shall have appended to it a certificate by the circulator, verified by
oath, that each signature appended thereto was made in his/her presence and
that the circulator believes them to be the genuine signature of the person
whose name it purports to be. The person making the certificate shall be a
resident of the City and registered to vote. Any person whose name appears on a
petition may withdraw his/her name by a statement in writing filed with the
City Clerk before the City Clerk advises the Council of sufficiency of the
petition.
(Amended 5-27-2003)
SECTION 5.03.  DETERMINATION OF SUFFICIENCY.
   The sponsoring committee shall file the completed petition in the office of
the City Clerk. For determining the required number of signatures, the term
“base” shall be defined as the number of registered voters at the time of the
last regular municipal election. At least five percent (5%) of the base shall
be required to make an initiative or referendum petition sufficient and allow
such petition to be placed on the next scheduled election ballot as determined
by Section 5.05 or 5.07. At least ten percent (10%) of the base shall be
required to allow an initiative or referendum petition to cause, as determined
by Section 5.05 or 5.07, a special election to be scheduled within one hundred
twenty (120) days of said petition’s filing so that said petition can be placed
before the voters. At least fifteen percent (15%) of the base shall make a
recall petition sufficient so as to cause a special election as noted in
Section 5.08. Immediately upon receipt of the petition, the City Clerk shall
examine the petition as to its sufficiency and report to the Council within ten
(10) days. Upon receiving the report, the Council shall determine by resolution
the sufficiency of the petition.
(Amended 5-27-2003)
SECTION 5.04.  DISPOSITION OF INSUFFICIENT OR IRREGULAR PETITION.
   If the Council determines that the petition is insufficient or irregular,
the City Clerk shall deliver a copy of the petition, together with a written
statement of its defects, to the sponsoring committee. The committee shall have
thirty (30) days in which to file additional signature papers and/or to correct
the petition in all other particulars, except that, in the case of a petition
for recall, the committee may not change the statement of the grounds on which
the recall is sought. Within five (5) days of receipt of the corrected
petition, the City Clerk shall again report to the Council. If the Council
finds that the petition is still insufficient or irregular, the City Clerk
shall file the petition in his/her office and notify the sponsoring committee.
The final finding that the petition is insufficient or irregular shall not
prejudice the filing of a new petition for the same purpose, nor shall it
prevent the Council from referring the subject matter of the petition to the
voters at the next regular or special election.
(Amended 5-27-2003)
SECTION 5.05.  INITIATIVE.
   Any ordinance may be proposed by a petition to the City Council. The Council
may pass the ordinance as petitioned thereby not requiring the ordinance to be
submitted to the voters. If the Council fails to enact the ordinance as
petitioned within sixty (60) days after the final determination of sufficiency
of the petition, the ordinance as petitioned shall be placed on a ballot as
determined by Section 5.03. If an election is held and a majority of those
voting on the ordinance vote in its favor, it shall become effective thirty
(30) days after certification of the election unless the ordinance specifies a
later effective date.
(Amended)
SECTION 5.06.  INITIATIVE TO AMEND THE CHARTER.
   Nothing in this Charter shall be construed as in any way affecting the right
of the electors to propose amendments to this Charter.
SECTION 5.07.  REFERENDUM.
   Prior to the date when an ordinance takes effect, it may be subjected to a
referendum petition. If the petition is found to be sufficient under Section
5.03, said ordinance shall thereby be prevented from taking effect, and shall
be placed on a ballot as determined by Section
5.03. If a majority of the voters voting thereon favors the ordinance contained
in the petition, it shall be allowed to go into effect. If a majority of the
voters voting thereon vote against the ordinance contained in the petition, it
shall be considered repealed upon certification of the election results.
(Amended)
SECTION 5.08.  RECALL.
   Consideration by the electorate of the recall of any elected officer of the
city may be initiated by petition. The grounds for recall shall be malfeasance
or nonfeasance in office. Prior to circulating a recall petition, the
accompanying certificate, which is described in Section
5.02, Subdivision 1, shall be filed in the City Clerk’s office. If the petition
or amended petition is found sufficient under the provisions of Section
5.03 of this chapter, the City Clerk shall transmit it to the Council without
delay and shall also officially notify the person sought to be recalled of the
sufficiency of the petition and of the pending action. The Council shall at its
next meeting, by resolution provide for the holding of a special recall
election within ninety (90) days after such meeting, except if any other
election is to occur within such ninety (90) days period after such meeting,
the Council may in its discretion provide for the holding of the recall vote at
that time. The City Clerk shall include with the published notice of the
election the statement of the grounds for the recall and, also, in not more
than five hundred (500) words, the answer of the officer concerned in
justification of his/her course of office. If a vacancy occurs due to the
recall election, Section
4.05 herein shall apply to fill said vacancy.
(Amended 5-27-2003)
CHAPTER 6.  ADMINISTRATION OF CITY AFFAIRS
SECTION 6.01.  ADMINISTRATION RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Council, as a body, shall be responsible for the administration of the
City. The Council shall appoint a City Administrator to assist in the
administration of City affairs.
SECTION 6.02.  ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION.
Subdivision 1.   The Council may by ordinance establish City departments,
offices and agencies, and prescribe their functions. No power or duty conferred
by this Charter upon a particular office or agency shall be transferred to any
other.
Subdivision 2.   The City Council shall hire/remove head of departments, and
such other further officers and personnel as may be required to operate the
City efficiently.
SECTION 6.03.  CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Administrator shall be the chief executive officer for the council.
The Council by ordinance shall establish the powers, duties, and reporting
requirements of the City Administrator.
SECTION 6.04.  CITY CLERK.
   The Council shall appoint a City Clerk. The City Clerk shall:
   (1)   Report directly to the City Administrator, and
   (2)   Have the duties and responsibilities determined by applicable state
law and City ordinances.
(Amended 5-27-2003)
SECTION 6.05.  CITY TREASURER.
   The Council shall appoint a City Treasurer. The City Treasurer shall:
   (1)   Report directly to the City Administrator, and
   (2)   Have the duties and responsibilities determined by applicable state
law and City ordinances.
(Amended 5-27-2003)
SECTION 6.06.  BASIS FOR HIRING AND REMOVAL.
   The basis for hiring shall be merit and appropriate qualifications. Removal
shall be based on just cause, as conclusively determined by the Council.
(Amended 5-27-2003)
CHAPTER 7.  TAXATION AND FINANCES
SECTION 7.01.  COUNCIL TO CONTROL FINANCES.
   The Council shall have full authority over the financial affairs of the City
except as limited or prohibited by the state constitution, state law, or this
Charter. It shall provide for the collection of all revenues and other assets,
and the auditing and settlement of accounts. It shall further provide for the
safekeeping and disbursement of public moneys by the City Treasurer.
(Amended 5-27-2003)
SECTION 7.02.  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city shall be the calender year.
SECTION 7.03.  SYSTEM OF TAXATION.
   Subject to the state constitution, and except as forbidden by it or by state
law, the Council shall have full power to provide by ordinance for a system of
local taxation. This authority includes the power by ordinance to assess, levy,
and collect taxes on all subjects or objects of taxation except as limited or
prohibited by the state constitution, by this Charter or by state laws imposing
restrictions upon the City irrespective of Charter provisions.
SECTION 7.04.  SUBMISSION OF BUDGET.
Subdivision 1.   Annually the City Administrator shall submit to the Council
the budget estimates in accordance with a budget calender to be established by
resolution. The budget shall provide a complete financial plan for all City
funds and activities for the ensuing fiscal year and, except as required by
state law or this Charter, shall be in such form as the council may require. It
shall include a summary and show in detail all estimated income and all
proposed expenditures, including debt service and comparative figures for the
current fiscal year, actual and estimated, and the preceding year. In addition
to showing proposed expenditures for current operations, it shall show proposed
capital expenditures to be made during the year and the proposed method of
financing each such capital expenditure. The total proposed operating budget to
be provided from the property tax shall not exceed the amounts authorized by
state law and this Charter. Consistent with these provisions, the budget shall
contain such information and be in the form prescribed by ordinance and by
state law.
Subdivision 2.   For each utility operated by the City, its budget shall show
anticipated net surplus or deficit and the proposed method of its disposition;
and subsidiary budgets for each such utility giving income and expenditure
information shall be included or attached as appendices.
SECTION 7.05.  THE FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL PLAN.
Subdivision 1.   The City Council shall have prepared a five-year financial
plan commencing in the calender year 1983. The City Council shall hold a public
hearing on the five-year financial plan and adopt it by resolution with or
without amendment. The financial plan shall consist of four (4) elements as
specified in Subdivisions 2-5 which follow. The programs in each element shall
be revised and extended each year.
(Amended)
Subdivision 2.   The Public Service Program. The program shall be a continuing
five-year plan for all public services, estimating future needs for the public
health, safety and welfare of the City. It shall measure the objectives and
needs for each City department, the standard of services desired, and the
impact of each such service on the annual operating budget.
Subdivision 3.   The Capital Improvement Program. This program shall consist of
projects and facilities that are or will be needed by the City in carrying out
the anticipated program of public services. It shall include a list of all
capital improvements proposed to be undertaken during the next five (5) fiscal
years, with appropriate supporting information as to the necessity for such
improvements; cost estimates, method of financing and recommended time schedule
for each such improvement; and the estimated annual cost of operating and
maintaining the facility to be constructed or acquired.
Subdivision 4.   A Revenue Program. This program shall consist of a tentative
revenue policy which describes five-year plans for financing public service and
capital improvements.
Subdivision 5.   The Capital Budget. This program shall be a summary on the
basis of a five (5) year period of the capital or money requirements for the
above described programs. It shall list a priority for each anticipated
investment in community facilities and balance this with a consideration of the
availability of necessary revenues.
Subdivision 6.   A summary of the five-year financial plan shall be published
annually.
SECTION 7.06.  COUNCIL ACTION ON BUDGET.
Subdivision 1.   The budget shall be considered by the first regular monthly
meeting of the Council in September and at subsequent meetings until a budget
is adopted for the ensuing year. The meetings shall be so conducted as to give
interested citizens a reasonable opportunity to be heard. The Council may
revise the proposed budget but no amendment to the budget shall increase the
authorized expenditures to an amount greater than the estimated income. The
Council shall adopt the budget by a resolution that shall set forth the total
for each budgeted fund and each department with such segregation as to objects
and purposes of expenditures as the Council deems necessary for purposes of
budget control. The Council shall also adopt a resolution levying the amount of
taxes provided in the budget, and the City Administrator shall certify the tax
Resolution to the County Auditor in accordance with state law. Adopting of the
budget resolution shall constitute appropriations at the beginning of the
fiscal year of the sums fixed in the Resolution of the several purposes named.
Subdivision 2.   At least two (2) weeks before the budget is adopted for the
ensuing fiscal year, a draft summary of the budget shall be published in the
official newspaper. Such summary shall be set forth in language designed to be
readily understood by the layperson, and shall provide appropriate supporting
information as to the necessity for any increase in the budget over the total
for the current fiscal year, but failure to provide the specified summary will
not invalidate the budget.
SECTION 7.07. ENFORCEMENT OF THE BUDGET.
   The City Council shall enforce strictly the provisions of the budget. It
shall not authorize any payment or the incurring of any obligation by the City,
unless an appropriation has been made in the budget Resolution, and there is a
sufficient unexpended balance after deducting the total past expenditures and
encumbrances against the appropriation. No officer or employee of the City
shall place any order or make any purchase except for a purpose and to the
amount authorized in the budget resolution. No check shall be issued or
transfer made to any account other than one owned by the City until the claim
to which it relates has been supported by an itemized bill, payroll, or time
sheet or other document approved and signed by the responsible City officer who
vouches for its correctness and reasonableness.
SECTION 7.08.  ALTERATIONS IN THE BUDGET.
   After the budget resolution has been adopted, the Council shall not increase
the amounts fixed in the resolution beyond the estimated receipts except to the
extent that actual receipts exceed the estimate. At anytime the Council, may by
a resolution approved by a majority of its members, reduce the sums
appropriated for any purpose by the budget resolution, or authorize the
transfer of sums from unencumbered balances of appropriations in the budget
resolution to other purposes.
SECTION 7.09.  FUNDS.
   There shall be maintained in the City treasury a general fund and such other
funds as may be required by state law, ordinance, or resolution. The Council
may, by Resolution or Ordinance, make inter-fund loans, except from trust and
agency funds, as it may deem necessary and appropriate.
SECTION 7.10.  CITY INDEBTEDNESS.
Subdivision 1.   Except as provided in Section
7.11 and
7.12, no obligation shall be issued to pay current expenses, but the Council
may issue and sell obligations, including certificates of indebtedness pursuant
to M.S. § 412.301; for any other municipal purpose in accordance with state law
and within the limitations prescribed by law. No such obligation shall be
issued and sold without the approval of the majority of the voters voting on
the question at a general or special election except in the case of obligations
for which an election is not required by this Charter or by state law.
(Amended)
Subdivision 2.   A description of each such obligation shall be published in
the official newspaper.
SECTION 7.11.  ANTICIPATION CERTIFICATES.
   At anytime after January 1, the Council may issue certificates of
indebtedness in anticipation of state and federal aids and the collection of
taxes levied the previous year for any fund and not yet collected. The total
amount of certificates issued against any fund for any year together with
interest thereon until maturity shall not exceed ninety percent (90%) of the
total state and federal aids and current taxes due to the fund and uncollected
at the time of issuance. Such certificates shall be issued on such terms and
conditions as the Council may determine, but they shall become due not later
than April 1 of the year following their issuance. The proceeds of the tax
levied and such state and federal aids as the governing body may have allocated
for the fund against which tax anticipation certificates are issued, and the
full faith and credit of the City shall be irrevocably pledged for the
redemption of the certificates.
SECTION 7.12.  EMERGENCY DEBT CERTIFICATES.
Subdivision 1.   If in any year the receipt from taxes or other sources should
for some unforeseen cause become insufficient for the ordinary expenses of the
City, or if any calamity or other public emergency necessitates the making of
extraordinary expenditures, the Council may by ordinance issue, on such terms
and in such manner as the Council determines, emergency debt certificates to
run not to exceed three (3) years. A tax sufficient to pay principal and
interest on such certificates with the margin required by law shall be levied
as required by law. The ordinance authorizing the issue of such emergency debt
certificates shall state the nature of the emergency and be approved by at
least four (4) members of the Council. It may be passed as an emergency
ordinance.
Subdivision 2.   A description of each proposed certificate shall be published
in the official newspaper, but failure to give such description, or any defect
in the description, shall not invalidate the certificate.
CHAPTER 8.  PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
SECTION 8.01.  POWER TO MAKE IMPROVEMENTS AND LEVY ASSESSMENTS.
   The City may make any type of public improvements not forbidden by law and
levy special assessments to pay all or any part of the cost of such
improvements as are of a local character. The total assessments for any local
improvement may not exceed the cost of the improvement, including all costs and
expenses connected therewith, with interest. No assessment shall exceed the
benefits to the property.
SECTION 8.02.  EFFECTIVE CHARTER PROVISIONS, EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN SECTION
8.07.
   Local improvements (the term “local improvement” shall mean a public
improvement financed partly or wholly from special assessments) shall be
carried out exclusively under the provisions of this Charter.
(Ord. 93-19, passed 11-23-1993)
SECTION 8.03.  LOCAL IMPROVEMENT ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS.
   Within one hundred twenty (120) days after this Charter goes into effect and
before local improvements can be acted upon, the Council shall enact suitable
ordinance(s) governing local improvements and special assessments. The
ordinance(s) shall provide a complete working code covering the determination
of assessments and assessment districts, public hearings, appeals from a
collection of assessments, penalties for delinquency in making payments,
financing of said assessments, and the certifying of unpaid assessments for
collection by the proper County officer. Said ordinance(s) shall also provide
for installment payments and notices to be given thereof, appellate procedure,
reassessment, if necessary, and all other matters appropriate to the subject of
local improvements and assessments. After the adoption of such ordinance(s)
providing for local improvements, all procedures in compliance therewith shall
conform to the regulations as set forth in such ordinance(s) and as otherwise
contained in this Charter.
SECTION 8.04.  SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
Subdivision 1.   All improvements to be paid for by special assessments against
the benefitted property shall be instituted by either, (1) a petition of at
least twenty-five percent (25%) in number of the benefitted property powers (A
benefitted property owner can only sign once regardless of the number of
benefitted parcels owned and a benefitted parcel can only have one signature.)
together with a resolution adopted by an affirmative vote of the majority of
all of the Council, or, (2) a resolution adopted by a four-fifths affirmative
vote of all of the Council. The Council resolution shall state the nature and
scope of proposed improvement including the number of benefitted property
owners, and shall provide means to obtain a cost estimate which shall set forth
the cost of the improvement both in unit price and in total thereof. Upon
receipt of such estimate, the Council shall by resolution set a date for a
public hearing on the proposed improvement setting forth therein the time,
place and purpose of such hearing. Such resolution shall be published twice, at
least one week apart, in the official newspaper of the City no less than two
(2) weeks prior to the date of said hearing, and in addition thereto, a copy of
such resolution including estimate unit prices and estimated total price
thereof shall be mailed to each benefitted property owner at his/her last known
address at least two (2) weeks prior to the date of said hearing. Failure to
give mailed notice, or any defects in the notice, shall not invalidate the
proceedings. At such hearing the City shall receive any written and oral
statements, and hear any petitioners for or against the proposed improvement.
At such hearing the City Council shall present a special assessment formula and
an analysis of the assessment income expected to offset the proposed
improvement cost. A period of sixty (60) days shall elapse after the public
hearing before any further action shall be taken by the Council, on the
proposed improvement. If within such sixty (60) day period, in a petitioning
process independent of the initiating process, a petition against such
improvement be filed with the Council, signed by a majority of the owners
proposed to be assessed for such improvement, or when the improvement has been
petitioned for, signed by a number of the owners proposed to be assessed for
such improvement, at least equal to the number of those who petitioned for the
improvement, the Council shall not make such improvement at the expense of the
property benefitted, unless, in the meantime there be filed with the Council a
petition asking that the improvement be made, signed by property owners
proposed to be assessed for such improvement at least equal in number to those
who signed the petition against the improvement; in which event the Council may
disregard the petition against the improvement. Any person, whose name appears
on a petition to the Council for a local improvement, may withdraw his/her name
by statement in writing filed with the Council before such petition is
presented to the Council.
Subdivision 2.   Regardless of the provisions of Subdivision 1 of this section,
when less than one hundred (100%) percent of the estimated cost of the proposed
improvement is to be paid for by special assessments, connection charges, or
any outside funding sources other than the City general fund, the Council shall
submit the proposed local improvement and its assessment formula to the voters
of the City at the next general election. If no general election is scheduled
to occur within 160 days after the conclusion of the public hearing, the
Council shall schedule a special election as soon as practicable to submit said
improvement and its associated assessment formula to the City’s voters. If a
majority of those voting on said improvement and associated assessment formula
are opposed, the Council shall not proceed with the local improvement as
proposed. (Ord. 05-13, passed 1-13-2014)
Subdivision 3.   When a proposed improvement is allowed under the foregoing
subdivision, and the public record of the proposed improvement contains all of
the evidence on which the Council shall base their decision, the Council may by
resolution, at any time between sixty (60) days and one (1) year after the
conclusion of the public hearing, proceed on the improvement. If after bids are
received on the project the proposed contract exceeds the estimated cost of the
engineer stated at the public hearing held under Subdivision 1 by more than ten
(10%) percent, the City Council may not award the contract for the proposed
improvement, but may rebid the project for one (1) time only.
(Amended)
Subdivision 4.   When a proposed improvement is disallowed under the foregoing
subdivisions, the Council shall not vote on the same improvement within a
period of one (1) year after the public hearing on said improvement.
SECTION 8.05.  ASSESSMENTS FOR SERVICES.
   The Council may provide by ordinance that the cost of City services to
streets, sidewalks, or other public or private property may be assessed against
property benefitted and may be collected in the same manner as special
assessments. Such costs shall not be deemed to be “special assessments” for the
purpose set forth in Section
8.03 of this chapter.
SECTION 8.06.  IMPROVEMENT PETITION; WAITING PERIOD WAIVER.
   When under the provisions of Section
8.04, Subdivision 1, an improvement is petitioned for by one hundred (100%)
percent of the benefitted property owners, such property owners may after the
mailing of notice of a public hearing, petition to waive fifty (50) of the
sixty (60) days waiting period. After such petition, the City Council may
immediately order the proposed project. (Amended)
SECTION 8.07.  LOCAL IMPROVEMENT; SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
Subdivision 1.   Except as provided in Subdivision 3, in the geographic areas
of the City described in Subdivision 2, the construction of local improvements,
the levy of special assessment for the financing of those improvements must be
conducted in accordance with procedures specified in state law.
Subdivision 2.   Subdivision 1 applies to land within three (3) geographic
areas, each not exceeding 430 acres, legally described as follows:
   Area No. 1. - Trunk Highway #49 (Hodgson Road) and County State Aid. 
Highway #23 Intersection (Lake Drive):
      -   All Government Lot 1, Section 30, T31, R22, PIN. 30-31-22-210001
      -   That part of Lots 14, 15, 16, and 17, Auditor’s Subdivision No. 151
lying south and east of State Trunk Highway #49 (Hodgson Road) right-of-way
   Area No. 2. - Interstate I35E and County Road 242 (Main Street) Interchange.
      -   Northeast one quarter (1/4) of Section 24
      -   That part of the southeast one quarter (1/4) of Section 24 lying
north of Cedar Street
      -   East one half (½) of the southwest one quarter (1/4) of Section 24
      -   East one half (½) of the northwest one quarter (1/4) of Section 24
   Area No. 3 - Interstate I35W and Trunk Highway #49 (Lake Drive) Interchange.
      -   North one half (½) of the southwest one quarter (1/4) of Section 18
      -   That part of the south one half (½) of the southwest one quarter (1/
4) of Section 18 lying north of the Interstate I35W right-of-way
      -   That part of the southwest one quarter (1/4) of Section 17 lying west
of Trunk Highway #49 (Lake Drive) right-of-way
      -   All of the northwest one quarter (1/4) of Section 17 with the
exception of that part of the southeast one quarter (1/4) of said northwest one
quarter (1/4) of Section 17 as follows: beginning at a point at the
intersection of the south line of said southeast one quarter (1/4) of the
northwest one quarter (1/4) with the east right-of-way line of Trunk Highway
#49; thence northeasterly along said right-of-way line 938.14 feet (+ or -) ;
thence southeasterly 672.39 (+ or -) feet to east line of said southeast one
quarter (1/4) of the northwest one quarter (1/4); thence south along said east
line 588.5 (+ or -) feet to the south line of said southeast one quarter (1/4)
of the northwest one quarter (1/4); thence westerly along said south line
1021.59 feet (+ or -) to the point of beginning.
      -   The north 720 feet of that part of the southwest one quarter (1/4) of
the northeast one quarter (1/4) of Section 17 lying west of the Anoka County
Park property
      -   That part of the north one half (½) of the northeast one quarter (1/
4) of Section 17 lying west of the Anoka County Park property
      -   That part of the north one half (½) of the northeast one quarter (1/
4) of Section 17 lying west of the Anoka County Park property
      -   The south one half (½) of southeast one quarter (1/4) of the
southeast one quarter (1/4) of Section 8
      -   The southeast one quarter (1/4) of the southeast one quarter (1/4) of
the southwest one quarter (1/4) of Section 8
      -   The east 330 feet (+ or -) of the northeast one quarter (1/4) of the
southeast one quarter (1/4) of the southwest one quarter (1/4) of Section 8
Subdivision 3.   When construction of local improvements, the levy of special
assessments for the financing of those improvements specially benefit a parcel
of real property, in an area described in Subdivision 2, on which a single
family, owner occupied residential unit existed on September 30, 1993, the
owner/occupant of such residential unit may file a petition with the City Clerk
objecting to the special assessment to be levied against his/her parcel. Such
petition shall be filed with the City at or before the first public hearing to
be held on the project. After the filing of such petition the City may not
specially assess such owner’s property for the improvements constructed unless
the owner, at his/her option, in the future elects to connect to or use the
improvements constructed by the City. Any notice of hearing mailed to such
single family, owner occupied units shall include notice of the property
owner’s right to object to the assessments as granted in this paragraph. This
exception terminates on the first day that an owner occupied residential unit
no longer exists on the parcel of real property.
(Ord. 93-19, passed 11-22-1993)
CHAPTER 9.  EMINENT DOMAIN
SECTION 9.01.  ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.
   The City may acquire by purchase, gift, condemnation, or otherwise, any real
property, either within or without its boundaries, that may be needed by the
City for any public purpose. In acquiring property by exercising the power of
eminent domain, the City shall proceed according to Minnesota Law, Chapter 117,
or other applicable laws.
CHAPTER 10.  FRANCHISES
SECTION 10.01.  FRANCHISES GENERALLY.
   Except as otherwise provided by state law, no person, firm or corporation
shall place or maintain any permanent or semi-permanent fixtures in, over,
upon, or under any street or public place for the purpose of operating a public
utility, or for any other purpose, without a franchise therefore from the City.
A franchise shall be granted only by ordinance, which shall not be an emergency
ordinance. No exclusive franchise shall be granted unless the proposed
ordinance is submitted to the voters of the City following a public hearing and
approved by at least a majority of those voting thereon. Every ordinance
granting a franchise shall contain all the terms and conditions of the
franchise. The grantee shall bear the costs of publication of the franchise
ordinance and shall make a sufficient deposit with the City Clerk to guarantee
publication before the ordinance is passed.
(Amended 5-27-2003)
SECTION 10.02.  TERM.
   No perpetual franchise or privilege shall be created, nor shall any
exclusive franchise or privilege be granted for a period of more than twenty-
five (25) years.
SECTION 10.03.  PUBLIC HEARING.
   Before any franchise ordinance is adopted or any rates, fares, or prices to
be charged by a public utility are fixed by Council, the Council shall hold a
public hearing on the matter. Not less than ten (10) days prior to the date of
the hearing, notice of such hearing shall be published at least once in the
official newspaper and additional notice of such hearing shall be given in such
manner as the Council shall determine.
SECTION 10.04.  POWER OF REGULATION RESERVED.
   Subject to any applicable state law, the Council may by ordinance reasonably
regulate and control the exercise of any franchise, including the maximum
rates, fares, or prices to be charged by the grantee. No franchise value shall
be included in the valuation of the grantee’s property in regulating utility
rates, fares, or prices under any applicable state or municipal law, or
regulation, or in proceedings for municipal acquisition of the grantee’s
property by purchase or eminent domain.
SECTION 10.05.  RENEWALS OR EXTENSIONS.
   Every extension, renewal, or modification of any existing franchise, or of
any franchise granted thereafter, shall be subject to the same limitations and
shall be granted in the same manner as a new franchise.
CHAPTER 11.  PUBLIC OWNERSHIP AND OPERATION OF UTILITIES
SECTION 11.01.  ACQUISITION AND OPERATION OF UTILITIES.
   The City may own and operate any gas, water, heat, power, light, telephone,
or other public utility for supplying its own needs for utility service, or for
supplying utility service to private consumers or both. It may construct all
facilities reasonably needed for that purpose, and may acquire any existing
utility properties so needed; but such action may only be taken by ordinance,
which shall not be an emergency ordinance. The operation of all public
utilities owned by the City shall be under the supervision of the City Council.
SECTION 11.02.  RATES AND FINANCES.
   The Council shall by resolution fix rates, fares and prices for municipal
utilities, but such rates, fares and prices shall be just and reasonable. The
Council shall endeavor to make each municipal utility financially self-
sustaining. Before any rates, fares or prices for municipal utilities shall be
fixed by the Council, the Council shall hold a public hearing on the matter in
accordance with Section 11.06 of this Chapter. The Council shall prescribe the
time and the manner in which payments for all such utility services shall be
made, and may make such other regulations as may  be necessary, and prescribe
penalties for violation of such regulations.
(Amended)
SECTION 11.03.  PURCHASE IN BULK.
   The Council may in lieu of providing for the local production of gas,
electricity, water, and other utilities, purchase the same in bulk and resell
them to local consumers at such rates as it may fix. Before such rates are
fixed by the Council, the Council shall hold a public hearing on the matter in
accordance with Section 11.06 of this Chapter.
SECTION 11.04.  LEASE OF PLANT.
   The Council may, if the public interest will be served thereby, contract
with any reasonable person, co-partnership or corporation for the operation of
any utility owned by the City upon such rentals and conditions as it may deem
necessary; but such contract shall not be an emergency ordinance. In no case
shall the contract be for a longer term than ten (10) years.
SECTION 11.05.  PUBLIC UTILITY; HOW SOLD.
   No public utility owned by the City shall be sold or otherwise disposed of
by the City unless the full terms of the proposition of said sale or other
disposition thereof, together with the price to be paid therefore, shall be
embodied in an ordinance approved by the majority of the voters voting thereon
at a general or special election. Before such ordinance is submitted to a vote,
the council shall hold a public hearing on the matter in accordance with
Section 11.06 of this Chapter.
SECTION 11.06.  NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   Notice of public hearing required by this Chapter shall be published at
least once in the official newspaper at least ten (10) days prior to the date
of the hearing. Additional notice of such public hearing shall be given in such
manner as the Council shall determine.
CHAPTER 12.  MISCELLANEOUS AND TRANSITORY PROVISIONS
SECTION 12.01.  OFFICIAL PUBLICATION.
   The Council shall annually designate a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the City as its’ official newspaper in which shall be published
ordinances and other matters required by law and this Charter to be so
published, as well as such other matters as the Council may deem it in the
public interest to have published in this manner.
SECTION 12.02.  OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every officer of the City shall, before entering upon the duties of his/her
office, take and subscribe an oath of office in substantially the following
form: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm) to support the Constitution of the
United States and of this State and to discharge faithfully the duties
devolving upon me as (Mayor, Council Member, City Treasurer, City Clerk) of the
City of Lino Lakes to the best of my judgment and ability.”
(Amended 5-27-2003)
SECTION 12.03.  CODE OF CONDUCT.
   Within one (1) year of this Charter’s adoption, the City Council shall cause
a code of conduct for all elected, appointed, and hired officials and employees
of the City to be established. Such code shall be based on concepts of
professionalism, ethics, and will of the people. Further, such code shall
include the appropriate responses to violations of its provisions.
SECTION 12.04.  OFFICIAL BONDS.
   The City Administrator, the City Treasurer, City Clerk, and such other
officers or employees of the City as may be provided for by ordinance shall
each, before entering upon the duties of his/her respective office or
employment, give a corporate surety bond to the City in such form and in such
amount as may be fixed by Council as security for the faithful performance of
his/her official duties. This corporate surety bond may be in the form of
either individual or blanket bonds at the discretion of the Council. They shall
be approved by the Council, and approved as to form by the City Attorney, and
filed with the City Clerk. The premiums on the bonds shall be paid by the City.
(Amended 5-27-2003)
SECTION 12.05.  SALES OF REAL PROPERTY.
   No real property of the City shall be disposed of except by ordinance. The
proceeds of any sale of such property shall be used as far as possible to
retire any outstanding indebtedness incurred by the City in the purchase,
construction or improvement of this or other property used for the same public
purpose. If there is no such outstanding indebtedness, the Council may by
resolution designate some other public use for the proceeds.
SECTION 12.06.  VACATION OF STREETS.
   The Council may by ordinance, pass on a four-fifths (4/5) vote, vacate any
street or alley or other public grounds or part thereof within the City. Such
vacation may be made only after published notice in the official newspaper and
an opportunity for affected property owners and public to be heard, and upon
such further terms and by such procedure as the Council by ordinance may
prescribe. A notice of completion of such procedure shall be filed in
accordance with law.
SECTION 12.07.  CITY TO SUCCEED TO RIGHT AND OBLIGATIONS OF FORMER CITY.
   The City shall succeed to all the property, rights and privileges, and shall
be subject to all legal obligations of the City prior to this Charter.
SECTION 12.08.  EXISTING ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS CONTINUED.
   All ordinances, resolutions and regulations of the municipality in force
when this Charter takes effect, and not inconsistent with the provisions
thereof, are hereby continued in full force and effect until amended or
repealed.
SECTION 12.09.  OFFICERS TO CONTINUE FOR PRESENT TERMS.
   All elected and appointed officers of the City holding office on the
effective date of this Charter shall continue in office for the terms to which
they were elected or appointed, and until their successors shall have been
elected or appointed and have qualified.
SECTION 12.10.  PENDING CONDEMNATIONS AND ASSESSMENTS.
   Any condemnation or assessment proceeding in progress when this Charter
takes effect shall be continued and completed under the laws under which such
proceeding was begun. All assessments made by the Municipality prior to the
time when this Charter takes effect shall be collected, and the lien thereof
enforced in the same manner as if this Charter had not been adopted.
SECTION 12.11.  ORDINANCE TO MAKE CHARTER EFFECTIVE.
   The Council shall by ordinance, resolution or other appropriate action make
such regulations as may be necessary to carry out and make effective the
provisions of this Charter.
SECTION 12.12.  CITY COMMUNICATION.
   The Council shall, by ordinance, establish (1) a policy by which City
matters can be effectively communicated to the City’s entire populace on a
regular basis, and (2) a policy by which the Council can be informed of the
needs of the City’s entire populace.
SECTION 12.13.  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This Charter shall be effective immediately after its adoption.
SECTION 12.14.  SEVERABILITY. (ADDED AS AN AMENDMENT)
   The validity of any word, sentence, section, clause, paragraph, part or
provision of this Charter shall not affect the validity of any other part of
this Charter which can be given effect without such invalid part or parts.
   We, the undersigned, being duly appointed, qualified, and acting members of
the Charter Commission in and for the City of Lino Lakes, Anoka County,
Minnesota, hereby certify that the foregoing document consisting of Chapters
one (1) through twelve (12) inclusive, is the draft of a proposed Charter
prepared and framed by the Charter Commission, and we hereby affix our
signatures to that draft in testimony of our approval thereof, and deliver same
to Edna Sarner, the Clerk-Treasurer of the said City, for action pursuant to
law.
Dennis F. Weible, Chairman   Delbert Kincade
Ben Benson            Ina Liljedahl
Richard Bollig         Jim Livingston
Mary Bunker            John Merrill
James P. Flannery         Wendell Ostlie
Jerry Hanson            Vernon Reinert
Bernice Juleen            Henry Rosengren
LINO LAKES, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-14 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 17-24, passed 11-25-2024
 
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 10-09
ADOPTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF LINO LAKES, MINNESOTA, AMENDING,
RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Whereas, pursuant to State law and the Charter of the City of Lino Lakes,
Section 3.11, the City Council has reviewed, rearranged and revised the Lino
Lakes Code of Ordinances as part of a project to update said Code; and
   Whereas, pursuant to the Charter of the City of Lino Lakes, Section 3.11,
the City Council has authorized publication of said Code into a book that has
been made available for public review; and
   Whereas, pursuant to the Charter of the City of Lino Lakes, Section 3.11, a
notice was published in the city's official newspaper for two successive weeks
informing the public of the City Council's intent to adopt the updated Lino
Lakes Code of Ordinances;
   NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LINO LAKES DOES ORDAIN:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the city as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are adopted and shall constitute the
Code of Ordinances of the City of Lino Lakes. This Code also adopts, by
reference, certain statutes and administrative rules of the State of Minnesota
as named in the Code of Ordinances.
   Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles:
   TITLE 100: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   TITLE 200: COUNCIL AND ADMINISTRATION
   TITLE 300: PUBLIC PROPERTY AND IMPROVEMENTS
   TITLE 400: WATER AND SEWER
   TITLE 500: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   TITLE 600: BUSINESS AND ACTIVITY LICENSES
   TITLE 700: LIQUOR AND BEER
   TITLE 900: NUISANCES
   TITLE 1000: LAND USAGE
   TITLE 1100: SHORELAND AND FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   APPENDIX: FEE SCHEDULE
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to subjects treated in the Code
of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in part
in the Code of Ordinances; provided this repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred, or any right established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes; appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory;
establishing franchises; granting special rights to certain persons;
authorizing public improvements; authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money; authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property;
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use; or
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
this repeal affect any other ordinances of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of Ordinances.
All fees established in prior ordinances shall remain in effect unless amended
in this Code of Ordinances, or included in the city's fee schedule ordinance.
   Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a
sufficient publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously
published in the city's official newspaper. The city clerk shall cause a
sufficient quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general
distribution to the public at a cost established by the city, and shall furnish
a copy of the Code of Ordinances to the County Law Library or its designated
depository. The official copy of this Code of Ordinances shall be marked and
kept in the office of the city clerk.
   Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of
the law of the city and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the courts of the State of Minnesota.
   Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon passage and publication according to
the city charter.
                        John Bergeson /s/
                        John Bergeson, Mayor
Juliannne Bartell /s/
Attest: Julianne Bartell, City Clerk
   Adopted by the Lino Lakes City Council this 23rd day of November, 2009.
   The motion for the adoption of the foregoing ordinance was duly seconded by
Council Member Gallup and upon a vote being taken thereon, the following voted
in favor thereof:
   The following voted against same:
   Whereupon said ordinance was declared duly passed and adopted.
100: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
101.   CITY CODE
CHAPTER 101: CITY CODE
Section
   
101.01   City code
   
101.02   Rules of interpretation
   
101.03   Definitions
   
101.04   Severablity
   
101.05   Reference to other sections
   
101.06   Reasonable time
   
101.07   Ordinances repealed
   
101.08   Ordinances unaffected
   
101.09   Effective date of ordinances
   
101.10   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
101.11   Existing rights and liabilities
   
101.12   Statutory rules adopted
   
101.13   Hearings
   
101.14   Administrative search warrants
   
101.15   Penalties
§ 101.01 CITY CODE.
   (1)   How cited. This code of ordinances shall be known as the Lino Lakes
City Code and may be so cited.
   (2)   Additions. New ordinances proposing amendments or additions to the
code shall be assigned appropriate code numbers and shall be incorporated into
the code as of their effective date. Reference or citation to the code shall be
deemed to include amendments and additions. When an ordinance is integrated
into the code, there may be omitted from the ordinance the title, enacting
clause, section numbers, definitions of items identical to those contained in
this chapter, the clause indicating date of adoption, and validating signatures
and dates. In integrating ordinances into the code, the City Administrator, in
cooperation with the city attorney, may correct obvious grammatical,
punctuation and spelling errors; change reference numbers to conform with
sections, articles and chapters; substitute figures for written words and vice
versa; substitute dates for the words "the effective date of this ordinance";
and perform like actions to ensure a uniform code of ordinances without,
however, altering the meaning of the ordinances enacted.
   (3)   Numbering. Each section number of this code consists of two component
parts separated by a decimal. The first digit of the number refers to the
chapter number and the digits after the period refer to the position of the
section within the chapter. If the chapter is divided into parts, the figure
immediately to the left of the decimal corresponds to the part number.
   (4)   Title headings; cross references. Chapter, part, section, division and
other titles shall not be considered part of the subject matter of this code
but are intended for convenience only and not necessarily as comprehensive
titles.
   (5)   Copies. Copies of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk for public inspection or sale for a reasonable charge, as determined by
the Council in the annual fee schedule.
§ 101.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (1)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (2)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (a)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (b)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 101.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (1)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   CITY. "City" means the City of Lino Lakes The area within the corporate
boundaries of the city as presently established or as amended by ordinance,
annexation or other legal actions at a future time. The term CITY when used in
this code may also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized
representatives.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator of the City of Lino Lakes.
   CITY CLERK. The City Clerk of the City of Lino Lakes.
   CODE. The Lino Lakes City Code as modified by amendment, revision and
adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation
or trustee. As applied to partnerships or associations, the term includes the
partners or members thereof; as applied to corporations the term includes the
officers, agents or employees.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   STATE. The State of Minnesota.
§ 101.04 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 101.05 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 101.06 REASONABLE TIME.
   (1)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (2)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 101.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 101.08 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 101.09 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly, provided 30 days after publication or at a later date as specified
in the ordinance.
§ 101.10 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (1)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (2)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (3)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 101.11 EXISTING RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   The repeal of prior ordinances and adoption of this code are not to be
construed to affect in any manner rights and liabilities existing at the time
of repeal and the enactment of this code. Insofar as provisions in this code
are substantially the same as preexisting ordinances, they shall be considered
as continuations thereof and not as new enactments. Any act done, offense
committed or right accruing or liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred or assessed prior to the effective date of this code is not affected
by the enactment of this code.
§ 101.12 STATUTORY RULES ADOPTED.
   (1)   The definitions and rules of construction, presumptions and
miscellaneous provisions pertaining to construction contained in M.S. Ch. 645,
as it may be amended from time to time, are adopted by reference and made a
part of this code. As so adopted, references in that chapter to laws and
statutes mean provisions of this code and references to the legislature mean
the Council.
   (2)   Any amendments to a rule or statute adopted by reference in the city
code shall be included by reference in the code as if the amended statute or
rule had been in existence at the time the code was adopted, unless there is a
clear intention expressed in the code to the contrary.
§ 101.13 HEARINGS.
   (1)   General. Unless otherwise provided in this code or by law, every
public hearing required by law, ordinance or resolution to be held on any
legislative or administrative matter shall be conducted in accordance with this
section.
   (2)   Notice. Every hearing shall be preceded by ten days mailed notice to
all persons entitled thereto by law, ordinance or resolution unless only
published notice is required. The notice shall state the time, place and
purpose of the hearing. Failure to give the notice or defects in it shall not
invalidate the proceedings if a good faith effort has been made to comply with
this subdivision.
   (3)   Conduct of hearing. At the hearing, each party in interest shall have
an opportunity to be heard and to present evidence as is relevant to the
proceeding. The Council may adopt rules governing the conduct of hearings,
records to be made and any other matters as it deems necessary.
   (4)   Record. Upon the disposition of any matter after hearing, the Council
shall have prepared a written summary of its findings and decisions and enter
the summary in the official Council minutes.
§ 101.14 ADMINISTRATIVE SEARCH WARRANTS.
   (1)   The City Administrator and any city official or employee designated by
this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may,
with the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or
resident of a dwelling or other person in control of any premises, inspect or
otherwise enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (2)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of any
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Administrator, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the duty
of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (3)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Administrator or any other authorized city officer or
employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection
of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all
permits, licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given
to the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property,
stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner, resident or
other person in control of the property shall be given an opportunity to appear
before the City Administrator to object to the termination before it occurs,
subject to appeal of the Administrator's decision to the City Council at a
regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 101.15 PENALTIES.
   (1)   Petty misdemeanor offenses. Any person, firm or corporation who
violates any provision of this code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically
adopted by reference, which is designated to be a petty misdemeanor, shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be
imposed for any petty misdemeanor offense shall be a sentence of a fine of not
more than $300.
   (2)   General misdemeanor offenses. Any person, firm or corporation who
violates any provision of this code or any rule or regulation adopted in
pursuance thereof, for which another penalty is not specifically provided,
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be
imposed for any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including
Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of
not more than 90 days or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (3)   Costs of prosecution. In either the case of a petty misdemeanor or a
misdemeanor, the costs of prosecution may be added.
   (4)   Separate violations. Unless otherwise provided, each act of violation
and every day on which a violation occurs or continues constitute a separate
offense.
   (5)   Application to city personnel. The failure of any officer or employee
of the city to perform any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject
the officer or employee to the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty
is specifically provided for the failure.
   (6)   Additional remedies. In addition to any penalties provided for in this
section, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision
of this code, the city or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation.
200: COUNCIL AND ADMINISTRATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Part has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 07-25, adopted 5-27-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Part has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 08-25, adopted 5-27-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
      Chapter
         
201.   CITY CHARTER - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY
         
202.   COUNCIL AND COMMISSION PROCEDURES
         
203.   COUNCIL COMPENSATION
         
204A.   CODE OF CONDUCT
         
205.   CITY ADMINISTRATOR
         
206.   OFFICER AND EMPLOYEE BONDS
         
207.   PERSONNEL POLICY
         
208.   PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENT
         
209.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
         
210.   ADVISORY COMMISSIONS
         
211.   PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
         
212.   PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD
         
213.   UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
         
214.   RECOVERY OF COSTS
         
215.   JOINT POWERS AGREEMENTS
         
216.   CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS REPORT REQUIRED FROM CANDIDATES FOR MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL
         
217.   ENVIRONMENTAL BOARD
         
218.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 201: CITY CHARTER - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY
Section
   
201.01   Official copies
   
201.02   Purchase of copies
§ 201.01 OFFICIAL COPIES.
   The City Administrator shall keep in his or her office at all times three
copies of the City Charter, including all amendments. Each copy shall also
include an accurate, current description of the boundaries of the city. These
copies shall be available for public inspection at no charge at any time during
regular office hours.
(Prior Code, § 201.01)
§ 201.02 PURCHASE OF COPIES.
   The City Administrator shall provide a copy of the City Charter, including
amendments and a description of the city's boundaries to any person requesting
it, upon payment of the fee established by ordinance in the city fee schedule.
The fee shall not exceed the reasonable cost to the city of reproducing and
providing the copy.
(Prior Code, § 201.02)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
CHAPTER 202: COUNCIL AND COMMISSION PROCEDURES
Section
   
202.01   Meetings
   
202.02   Presiding officer – appointment
   
202.03   Quorum
   
202.04   Order of business
   
202.05   Presiding officer – powers
   
202.06   Debate procedure
   
202.07   Debate limit
   
202.08   Point of order
   
202.09   Motions and resolutions in writing
   
202.10   Limit on motions
   
202.11   Divisions of question
   
202.12   Voting
   
202.13   Order of consideration
   
202.14   Form of question
   
202.15   Committees
   
202.16   Ordinances
   
202.17   Petitions
   
202.18   Open meetings
   
202.19   Preservation of order
   
202.20   Amendment of rules
   
202.21   Robert's Rules of Order
   
202.22   Purpose
   
202.23   Recording votes
   
202.24   Scope
§ 202.01 MEETINGS.
   (1)   Regular meetings. The City Council shall have regular sessions on the
second and fourth Monday of each month at 6:30 p.m., and if that Monday shall
fall on a holiday shall have its regular session the next following day, and
adjourned and special sessions at any other time the Council may deem proper.
   (2)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be called as provided by § 3.01
of the Charter. Written notice of any special meeting shall be posted giving
the date, time, place and purpose of the meeting at least three days before the
meeting. Notice shall be provided at least three days before the meeting to all
of the members of the Council and to anyone who has filed a written request for
notice of special meetings. In calculating the three days, the first day that
notice is given is not counted and the last day is counted, and if the last day
falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the next regular business day
shall be counted as the third day.
(Prior Code, § 202.01) (Am. Ord. 06-90, passed 5-29-1990)
§ 202.02 PRESIDING OFFICER - APPOINTMENT. 
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council. In the absence of
the Mayor, the Acting Mayor shall preside. In the absence of both, the Council
members shall elect a member as temporary chairperson. The Acting Mayor shall
have the same privileges as other members.
(Prior Code, § 202.02)
§ 202.03 QUORUM.
   At all meetings of the Council, a majority of the Council members shall
constitute a quorum to do business.
(Prior Code, § 202.03)
§ 202.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   At the hour appointed for meeting, the members shall be called to order by
the Mayor, and in his or her absence by the Acting Mayor, and in the absence of
both, by the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall call the roll, note the absentees
and announce whether a quorum is present. In the absence of the City Clerk, the
Mayor shall appoint a secretary pro-tem. Upon the appearance of a quorum the
Council shall proceed to business, which shall be conducted in the following
order:
   (1)   Call to order;
   (2)   Roll call;
   (3)   Pledge of allegiance;
   (4)   Public comment;
   (5)   Setting the agenda;
   (6)   Presentations of petitions, memorials and demonstrations;
   (7)   Approval of minutes of previous meetings;
   (8)   Consent agenda;
   (9)   Reports of city officers and motions, resolutions and reading of
ordinances;
   (10)   Unfinished business;
   (11)   New business;
   (12)   Notices and communications; and
   (13)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 202.04)
§ 202.05 PRESIDING OFFICER - POWERS.
   The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum and shall decide
questions of order subject to an appeal to the Council. The presiding officer
may make motions, second motions or speak on any question; provided, however,
that in order to do so, upon demand of any one Council member, he or she shall
vacate the chair and designate a Council member to preside temporarily. The
Mayor shall be entitled to vote like other members of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 202.05)
§ 202.06 DEBATE PROCEDURE.
   Every member, previous to his or her speaking, shall address the chairperson
and shall not proceed until the chair has recognized him or her. He or she
shall indulge in no personalities and shall confine his or her remarks to the
matter under debate.
(Prior Code, § 202.06)
§ 202.07 DEBATE LIMIT.
   No member shall speak more than twice on any question, nor more than five
minutes each time without unanimous consent of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 202.07)
§ 202.08 POINT OF ORDER.
   A member called to order shall immediately suspend his or her remarks until
the point of order is decided by the chair.
(Prior Code, § 202.08)
§ 202.09 MOTIONS AND RESOLUTIONS IN WRITING.
   Every motion except to adjourn, postpone, reconsider, commit, lay on the
table, or for the previous questions, shall be reduced to writing if the chair
or any member requires it; when made and seconded, it shall be stated by the
chairperson if amendment, or any disposition thereof has been made, or a vote
taken thereon.
(Prior Code, § 202.09)
§ 202.10 LIMIT ON MOTIONS.
   When a question is under debate no motion shall be entertained, unless to
adjourn, to lay on the table, to act on the previous question, to postpone, to
commit or to amend, which several motions shall have precedence in the order in
which they are named, and the first three shall be decided without debate.
(Prior Code, § 202.10)
§ 202.11 DIVISIONS OF QUESTION.
   Any question shall be divided at the request of any member when the same
will admit thereof.
(Prior Code, § 202.11)
§ 202.12 VOTING.
   When a question is put by the chair, every member present shall vote unless
for special reasons the Council shall excuse him or her; but if interested he
or she shall not vote. In doubtful cases the chair may direct or any member
call for a division. The yeas and nays shall be called upon a requisition of
the chair or any member, in which case the names of the members voting are
required to be recorded in the minutes.
(Prior Code, § 202.12)
§ 202.13 ORDER OF CONSIDERATION.
   All questions shall be put in the order in which they are moved, except in
case of privileged questions.
(Prior Code, § 202.13)
§ 202.14 FORM OF QUESTION.
   The previous question shall be put in these words: "Shall the main question
now be put?" It shall be admitted on demand of any two members and until
decided shall preclude all amendments and debate of the main question.
(Prior Code, § 202.14)
§ 202.15 COMMITTEES.
   All committees, including standing committees, shall be appointed by the
chair, unless expressly ordered by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 202.15)
§ 202.16 ORDINANCES.
   After an ordinance shall have passed, a complete and accurate copy as
amended shall be made by the City Clerk and shall be signed by the Mayor or in
his or her absence by the Acting Mayor and deposited with the City Clerk, who
shall attest, seal, number, file and record or place the same permanently in
the ordinance book. The affidavit of publication shall be permanently inserted
in the ordinance book after each ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 202.16)
§ 202.17 PETITIONS.
   Petitions and other papers addressed to the Council shall be read by the
City Clerk upon presentation of the same to the Council.
(Prior Code, § 202.17)
§ 202.18 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All sessions of the Council shall be public to the extent provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 202.18)
§ 202.19 PRESERVATION OF ORDER.
   The Chief of Police, or designeee, shall attend meetings of the Council when
requested to do so by the Mayor and preserve order in the room.
(Prior Code, § 202.19)
§ 202.20 AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules, or any of them, may be temporarily suspended by consent of a
majority of all Council members and shall not be repealed, altered or amended,
unless by concurrence of a majority of the whole Council, and upon notice given
at some preceding meeting.
(Prior Code, § 202.20)
§ 202.21 ROBERT'S RULES OF ORDER.
   In all points not covered by these rules the Council shall be governed in
its procedure by Robert's Rules of Order.
(Prior Code, § 202.21)
§ 202.22 PURPOSE.
   The foregoing rules are adopted to facilitate the transaction of Council
business and functions. They should not be permitted to defeat or hinder the
plainly expressed intent and desire of the Council. Informal compliance and
substantial performance shall be sufficient under the foregoing rules in the
absence of objection seasonably taken. Objection is hereby declared not to have
been seasonably taken as to procedural matters provided for herein if a Council
member present at a meeting fails to object during the meeting and requests
compliance with these rules, and the objection shall not be seasonably taken by
an absent member later than the next regular meeting after the proceedings to
which the objection is made.
(Prior Code, § 202.22)
§ 202.23 RECORDING VOTES.
   The votes of the members on any question may be taken in any manner which
signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes of each member
on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes. The vote of each member
shall be recorded on each appropriation of money, except for payments of
judgments, claims and amounts fixed by statute.
(Prior Code, § 202.23)
§ 202.24 SCOPE.
   The provisions of §§
202.01 through
202.24 shall apply to the City Council and, to the extent practicable, to all
commissions. As applied to commissions, references in this chapter to the Mayor
shall be construed to refer to the chairperson; references to Council members
shall be construed to refer to the members; and references to the City Clerk
shall be construed to refer to the secretary.
(Prior Code, § 202.24)
CHAPTER 203: COUNCIL COMPENSATION
Section
   
203.01   Compensation of Mayor and Council members
   
203.02   Worker's compensation
§ 203.01 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 15-25, adopted 9-8-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   (1)   Salaries. The compensation of the Mayor and each Council member shall
be established from time to time by City Council ordinance pursuant to M.S. §
415.11. Effective January 1, 2024, the salary of the Mayor shall be $11,298,
and the salary of each Council member shall be $9,497. Thereafter, every two
years the City Council will consider whether a salary adjustment is warranted.
This salary is intended to cover all meetings that may be attended by the Mayor
or Council members except as expressly provided in this section.
(Ord. 07-97, passed 4-28-1997; Am. Ord. 17-01, passed 9-24-2001; Am. Ord. 10-
05, passed 10-24-2005; Am. Res. 06-13, passed 2-13-2006)
   (2)   Payment. The salaries established hereby are to be paid monthly.
   (3)   Economic Development Authority (EDA) meetings. The City Council will
be compensated for attendance at EDA meetings at the rate of $40 per meeting.
(Prior Code, § 203.01) (Am. Ord. 07-97, passed 4-28-1997; Am. Ord. 08-18,
passed 11-26-2018; Am. Ord. 17-18, passed 11-26-2018; Am. Ord. 06-21, passed 6-
28-2021; Am. Ord. 03-23, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 203.02 WORKER'S COMPENSATION.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 176.011, Subd. 9, as it may be amended from time to time,
all of the City Council members shall be covered by worker’s compensation.
(Prior Code, § 203.02) (Am. Ord. 08-18, passed 11-26-2018; Am. Ord. 06-21,
passed 6-28-2021; Am. Ord. 03-23, passed 6-26-2023)
CHAPTER 204A: CODE OF CONDUCT
Section
   
204A.01   Procedures
   
204A.02   Disclosure
   
204A.03   Removal of influence
   
204A.04   Representation of interested party
   
204A.05   City employment
   
204A.06   Removal from office
   
204A.07   Conflict of interest
§ 204A.01 PROCEDURES.
   Any elected official, city employee or agent appointed by the City Council,
or any member of a committee or commission who has been appointed by the City
Council or Mayor, who in the discharge of their official duties, would be
required to take action or make a decision which could substantially affect the
official's financial interest, or those of an associated business, unless the
effect on the official is no greater than that on any other members or the
official's business classification, profession or occupation, shall take the
following action.
(Prior Code, § 204A.01) (Ord. 14-95, passed 9-11-1995)
§ 204A.02 DISCLOSURE.
   Disclosure to the Council or chairperson, and other members of the
commission of which they are a member, their participation in the matter, prior
to the time the matter is considered by the Council, committee or commission.
(Prior Code, § 204A.02) (Ord. 14-95, passed 9-11-1995)
§ 204A.03 REMOVAL OF INFLUENCE.
   Remove themselves in the manner prescribed by the Council, or the
chairperson of the committee or commission of which they are a member, from any
consideration or influence over the action and decision in question.
(Prior Code, § 204A.03) (Ord. 14-95, passed 9-11-1995)
§ 204A.04 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTED PARTY. 
   Not appear before the Council or committee or commission of which they are a
member, on their own behalf, or as a representative for any other person, firm,
corporation, partnership or association, operated either for profit or non-
profit.
(Prior Code, § 204A.04) (Ord. 14-95, passed 9-11-1995)
§ 204A.05 CITY EMPLOYMENT.
   No member of the City Council shall accept any employment, except as a
Council member, with the city.
(Prior Code, § 204A.05) (Ord. 14-95, passed 9-11-1995)
§ 204A.06 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE. 
   Any officer, employee, agent, member of a committee or commission who
intentionally violates the provisions for this section can be removed as an
officer, employee, agent or member of a committee or commission by a majority
action of the entire City Council, after a hearing held by the Council,
pursuant to written charges, and at least ten days personal notice, or in the
event the individual cannot be served after due diligence, by ten days
published notice, or both.
(Prior Code, § 204A.06) (Ord. 14-95, passed 9-11-1995; Am. Ord. passed 10- -
1995)
§ 204A.07 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (1)   In order to assure their independence and impartiality on behalf of
the public good, council members or members of a board or commission shall not
use their official positions to influence government decisions in which they
have a financial interest or where they have an organizational responsibility
or a personal relationship that would present a conflict of interest under
applicable state law.
   (2)   Except as permitted by law, a council member or member of a board or
commission must disclose a potential conflict of interest for the public record
and refrain from participating in the discussion and vote, when a matter comes
before that person that:
      (a)   Affects the person’s financial interests or those of a business
with which the person is associated, unless the effect on the person or
business is no greater than on other members of the same business
classification, profession or occupation; or
      (b)   Affects the financial interests of an organization in which the
person participates as a member of the governing body, unless the person serves
in that capacity as the city’s representative.
(Ord. 13-10, passed 1-10-2011)
CHAPTER 205: CITY ADMINISTRATOR
Section
   
205.01   Position established, purpose
   
205.02   Appointment, tenure
   
205.03   Duties and responsibilities
   
205.04   Authority
§ 205.01 POSITION ESTABLISHED, PURPOSE.
   The office and position of City Administrator is created for the purpose of
assisting the Council in carrying out the administrative functions of the city
and to advise the Council in matters of general policy.
(Prior Code, § 205.01)
§ 205.02 APPOINTMENT, TENURE.
   The Administrator shall be appointed by the City Council for an indefinite
term. Removal from this position will be by an affirmative vote of a majority
of all members of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 205.02)
§ 205.03 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (1)   Executive officer. The Administrator shall be the chief executive
officer for the Council. The Administrator shall coordinate the administration
of all city departments and divisions.
   (2)   Laws and policies. The Administrator shall be responsible directly to
the Council for the enforcement of all ordinances, regulations and law
enforcement policies of the Council and all laws of the state which may apply
within the boundaries of the city. The Administrator shall advise the Council
on matters of governmental and public policy which is pertinent to municipal
operations.
   (3)   Budget and finance. The Administrator shall be directly responsible to
the Council for the preparation, recommendation and management of the annual
city budget and shall be chief fiscal, financial and purchasing officer of the
city.
   (4)   Programs and projects. The Administrator shall be directly responsible
to the Council for planning and carrying out all capital improvement projects
and service programs and shall be chief project and program director for the
city.
   (5)   Administrator and personnel. The Administrator shall be the chief
administrative and personnel officer of the city. The Administrator shall be
directly responsible to the Council for administration of all departments and
divisions of the city and shall be directly responsible to the Council for the
supervision of all temporary, permanent, full-time, part-time and consulting
personnel of the city, except those appointed by the Council to serve on
advisory boards and commissions.
   (6)   General. The Administrator shall attend all meetings as may be
required by the Council; perform all reasonable tasks set before the
Administrator by the Council; furnish all verbal and written reports concerning
the assigned responsibilities of the Administrator as the Council may desire;
and maintain good and proper relations with the public at large.
(Prior Code, § 205.03)
§ 205.04 AUTHORITY.
   (1)   Administrative policy. The Administrator may establish administrative
policies and procedures as may be necessary to ensure the proper and efficient
operation of all departments and divisions of the city and may issue
administrative orders to carry out administrative policies and procedures. The
administrative policies and procedures shall be consistent with Minnesota
Statues, city ordinances and Council policy. The Council shall be apprised of
administrative policies and procedures.
   (2)   Fiscal control. The Administrator shall exercise control over the
fiscal expenditures of all the departments and divisions of the city and
appropriations which appear in the annual budget. The Administrator may allow
purchases of up to $2,500 for budgeted item purchases. Purchases over the
allowed maximum shall require the approval of the Council. No officer or
employee of the city shall place any order or make any purchase except for a
purpose and to the amount authorized in the budget resolution. The Council
shall audit all claims and shall retain its power to disaffirm any order or
contract entered into by the administrator on behalf of the Council.
   (3)   Personnel. All department directors and administrative personnel shall
report directly to the Administrator. The Administrator shall recommend to the
Council the hiring, promotion, demotion or dismissal of any regular or
probationary full-time or part-time employee of the city. The Council shall
make all final determinations with regard to the employment, promotion or
dismissal of city employees.
(Prior Code, § 205.04) (Am. Ord. 3-19, passed 3-25-2019)
CHAPTER 206: OFFICER AND EMPLOYEE BONDS
Section
   
206.01   Amounts
   
206.02   Term; conditions
   
206.03   Premium
§ 206.01 AMOUNTS.
   All city employees will be covered by a blanket public employee dishonesty
bond with coverage determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 206.01) (Am. Ord. 18-94, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 206.02 TERM; CONDITIONS.
   The official bond of each officer and employee mentioned in §
206.01 shall be executed in a form as to require the faithful performance of
official duties and the proper application of, and payment upon demand for, all
monies officially received by each officer and employee.
(Prior Code, § 206.02)
§ 206.03 PREMIUM.
   The premiums for the official bonds shall each be paid from the general
fund.
(Prior Code, § 206.03)
CHAPTER 207: PERSONNEL POLICY
Section
   
207.01   Appointments
   
207.02   Personnel rules and regulations
   
207.03   Administration
   
207.04   Compensation plan
   
207.05   Background checks for applicants
   
207.06   Indemnification
§ 207.01 APPOINTMENTS.
   The City Council shall make every appointment to a regular position of city
employment. Each appointment shall be based on merit and qualifications for the
position as determined by the City Administrator.
(Ord. 35-97, passed 2-9-1998)
§ 207.02 PERSONNEL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Council may, by resolution, establish personnel rules setting forth the
rights, duties and responsibilities of employees. The rules shall be known as
the City of Lino Lakes Personnel Policy and may from time to time be amended.
§ 207.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Administrator may establish administrative policies and procedures
as may be appropriate to administer the employment practices of the city. All
city employees shall comply with these policies and rules.
(Ord. 35-97, passed 2-9-1998)
§ 207.04 COMPENSATION PLAN.
   The City Administrator will establish and maintain a compensation plan for
all regular positions which will be reviewed and approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 35-97, passed 2-9-1998)
§ 207.05 BACKGROUND CHECKS FOR JOB APPLICANTS.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to Minnesota’s Computerized
Criminal History information for specified non-criminal purposes of employment
background checks for the positions described below.
   (2)   Criminal history background investigations.The Lino Lakes Police
Department is hereby required to perform criminal history background
investigation on all regular full-time or part- time job applicants and other
positions that work with children or vulnerable adults, unless the city’s
hiring authority concludes that a background investigation is not necessary.
   (3)   Access to data. In conducting the criminal history background
investigation in order to screen employment applicants, the Police Department
is authorized to access data maintained in the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal
Apprehensions Computerized Criminal History information system in accordance
with BCA policy. Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at
the Police Department under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement
official or his or her designee. A summary of the results of the computerized
criminal history data may be released by the Police Department to the hiring
authority, to include the City Council, the City Administrator, Director of
Administration or other city staff as appropriate.
   (4)   Consent required. Before the investigation is undertaken, the
applicant must authorize the Police Department by written consent to undertake
the investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
M.S. Ch. 13, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the collection,
maintenance and use of the information.
   (5)   Criteria for rejection. Except for the positions set forth in M.S. §
364.09, as it may be amended from time to time, the city will not reject an
applicant for employment on the basis of the applicant's prior conviction
unless the crime is directly related to the position of employment sought and
the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor with a jail
sentence. If the city rejects the applicant's request on this basis, the city
shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
      (a)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
      (b)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in M.S. §
364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (c)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment; and
      (d)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
(Ord. 35-97, passed 2-9-1998; Am. Ord. 05-00, passed 4-10-2000; Am. Ord. 19-01,
passed 10-8-2001; Am Ord. 15-08, passed 12-9-2008; Am. Ord. 4-19, passed 3-25-
2019)
§ 207.06 INDEMNIFICATION.
   The city or its insurance carrier will defend and indemnify all of its
officers and employees, whether elective or appointive, against any claim or
demand arising out of an alleged act or omission occurring in the performance
of their official duties or employment. If judgment is rendered in favor of the
officer or employment, any judgment for costs and disbursements shall be
assigned to the city, and all monies collected shall be paid to the city. The
provisions of this section requiring indemnification do not apply in cases of
intentional tort, malfeasance in office or willful or wanton negligence. In
those cases, the City Council may indemnify the officer or employee if it finds
the action to be in the public interest. Indemnification under this section is
subject to the liability limits imposed by M.S. § 466.05, as it may be amended
from time to time, and any other relevant statutes.
(Ord. 35-97, passed 2-9-1998)
CHAPTER 208: PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been REPEALED by new
legislation (Ord. 06-25, adopted 5-27-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
Section
   
208.01   Department created
   
208.02   Duties
   
208.03   Police and fire personnel
   
208.04   Public Safety Director
   
208.05   Ranks
   
208.06   Records
   
208.07   Uniforms and equipment
   
208.08   Uniform – when worn
   
208.09   Community service officer
   
208.10   Amendments to this chapter
§ 208.01 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   There is created a department of this city, which shall hereafter be known
as the Lino Lakes Public Safety Department.
(Prior Code, § 208.01) (Am. Ord. 02-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 208.02 DUTIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Lino Lakes Public Safety Department to
provide a healthy and safe community, preserve peace and public order, prevent
and detect crime, prevent and suppress fires, respond to and assist with
emergency medical needs, and enforce state and county laws and city ordinances
within the City of Lino Lakes, as authorized by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 208.02) (Am. Ord. 02-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 208.03 POLICE AND FIRE PERSONNEL.
   The Lino Lakes Public Safety Department shall be directed and supervised by
the Public Safety Director. The members of the Lino Lakes Public Safety
Department shall consist of the Public Safety Director, police and fire
personnel, and paid-on-call firefighters as the City Council shall hire. The
members of the Lino Lakes Public Safety Department shall be police officers,
cross-trained police offiers/firefighters, and firefighters.
(Prior Code, § 208.03) (Am. Ord. 02-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 208.04 PUBLIC SAFETY DIRECTOR.
   The Public Safety Director shall be responsible to the City Administrator
and shall make complete reports on the operation of the Lino Lakes Public
Safety Department as requested by the Administrator or City Council. Other
members of the Lino Lakes Public Safety Department shall be responsible and
accountable to the Public Safety Director, who shall be responsible for the
proper training and discipline of other members. The Public Safety Director may
recommend to the City Administrator a suspension without pay of any member of
the Lino Lakes Public Safety Department for just cause only. Suspensions
without pay in excess of 30 days and recommendations for termination will
require final action by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 208.04) (Am. Ord. 02-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 208.05 RANKS.
   Members of the Lino Lakes Public Safety Department, other than the Public
Safety Director, may be given a rank or designation as determined by the Public
Safety Director. The order of command shall flow from the Public Safety
Director downward in order as listed, each member being responsible to his or
her superior officer. The ranks and the rules of qualification for any of the
positions shall be as established by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 208.05) (Am. Ord. 02-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 208.06 RECORDS.
   The Lino Lakes Public Safety Department shall keep a daily record of all
Public Safety Department activities within the city, as prescribed by the City
Council. Access to Public Safety Department records shall be in accordance with
the Minnesota Data Practices Act.
(Prior Code, § 208.06) (Am. Ord. 02-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 208.07 UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT.
   All city property issued to any member shall be returned, in good condition,
to the city, forthwith, upon termination of employment. Each member shall be
responsible for and liable for each item and the proper care thereof while same
is in his or her possession. Uniforms and equipment to perform duties will be
provided to public safety personnel. Public safety personnel represented by a
union will be provided a uniform allowance pursuant to their labor agreement.
(Prior Code, § 208.07) (Am. Ord. 02-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 208.08  UNIFORM - WHEN WORN.
   Uniforms are only to be worn while on duty, while in transit to and from
work, for court, or at other official department functions or events.
(Prior Code, § 208.09) (Am. Ord. 02-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 208.09 COMMUNITY SERVICE OFFICER.
   A person holding the position of community service officer in the Lino Lakes
Public Safety Department may, under the direction of the Public Safety
Director, issue citations in lieu of arrest for violations of the following
Chapters: 503 Animal Control Regulations, 802 Parking, 901 General Nuisances
and 1006 Building Numbers.
(Ord. 13-94, passed 9-12-1994; Am. Ord. 02-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 208.10 AMENDMENTS TO THIS CHAPTER.
   Any change to this chapter must be authorized by the Lino Lakes City Council
by way of an ordinance amendment, which would become effective 180 days after
publication.
(Ord. 02-19, passed 4-22-2019)
CHAPTER 209: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
209.01   Policy and purpose
   
209.02   Definitions
   
209.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
209.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
209.05   Local emergencies
   
209.06   Emergency regulations
   
209.07   Emergency management a government function
   
209.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
§ 209.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to ensure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (1)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (2)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (3)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (4)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. Ch. 12, § 12.25, as it may be
amended from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of
the state shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 9-24-2007)
§ 209.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological and chemical evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred to as "civil defense"
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 9-24-2007)
§ 209.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created with the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, hereinafter called the "Director." The Director
shall be appointed by the City Council/Mayor and shall be paid his or her
necessary expenses. The Director shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration and operation of the emergency preparedness
organization, subject to the direction and control of the City Council/Mayor.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 9-24-2007)
§ 209.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (1)   The Director, with the consent of the Council/Mayor, shall represent
the city on any regional or state conference for emergency management. The
Director shall develop proposed mutual aid agreements with other political
subdivisions of the state for reciprocal emergency management aid and
assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt with unassisted, and shall
present the agreements to the Council/Mayor for its action. The arrangements
shall be consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (2)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the manpower,
industries, resources and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director of emergency
management shall establish the economic stabilization systems and measures,
service staffs, boards and sub-boards required, in accordance with state and
federal plans and directions subject to approval of the Council/Mayor.
   (3)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city including municipal and unincorporated areas
and shall present the plan to the Council/Mayor for its approval. When the
Council/Mayor has approved the plan by resolution, it shall be the duty of all
city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to perform the
duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may be modified
in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the emergency
management activities of the city to the end that they shall be consistent and
fully integrated with the emergency plan of the federal government and the
state and correlated with emergency plans of other political subdivisions
within the state.
   (4)   In accordance with the state and county emergency plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the city emergency plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (5)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to the
maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all such departments
and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate with and
extend the services and facilities to the City Emergency Management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency, in cooperation with the Director, shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of the emergency activities as will involve the utilization of
the facilities of the department or agency.
   (6)   The Director shall, in cooperation with existing city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting and training of the
emergency management personnel that may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that the
emergency personnel recruited to augment a regular city department or agency
for emergencies shall be assigned to the departments or agencies and shall be
under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (7)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services
(M.S. Ch. 12, § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time).
   (8)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (9)   The Director shall act as principal aide and advisor to the city
official responsible for direction and control of all city emergency operations
during an emergency. The Director's main responsibility is to assure
coordination among the operating departments, non-governmental groups, and with
higher and adjacent governments.
   (10)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities as may be requested by the City Council/Mayor.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 9-24-2007)
§ 209.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (1)   Only the Mayor of a municipality or their legal successors may declare
a local emergency. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three
days except by or with the consent of the governing board of the political
subdivision. Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing or terminating a
local emergency shall be given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed
promptly by the Chief of the locals records-keeping agency of the subdivision.
   (2)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance there under.
   (3)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 9-24-2007)
§ 209.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (1)   Whenever necessary to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the City Council/Mayor, the Council/Mayor may, by resolution, promulgate
regulations, consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation,
respecting: the conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies;
the repair, maintenance and safeguarding of essential public services,
emergency health, fire and safety regulation, drills or practice periods
required for preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to
protect public safety, health and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (2)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the Office of the City Administrator, which copy
shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours.
Notice of the existence of the regulation and its availability for inspection
at the Administrator's Office shall be conspicuously posted at the front of the
City Hall or other headquarters of the city or at such other places in the
affected area as the Council/Mayor shall designate in the resolution. By like
resolutions, the Council/Mayor may modify or rescind any regulation.
   (3)   The City Council/Mayor may rescind any regulation by resolution at any
time. If not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30
days after its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it
relates, whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule or regulation inconsistent
with an emergency regulation promulgated by the Council/Mayor shall be
suspended during the period of time and to the extent the conflict exists.
   (4)   During a declared emergency, the city is, notwithstanding any
statutory or charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its
governing body, acting within or without the corporate limits of city, to enter
into contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by
protecting the health and safety of persons and property and providing
emergency assistance to the victims of the disaster. The city may exercise
powers in the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with
the time consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to
the performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase
of supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies and the appropriation
and expenditure of public funds including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of call for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for budgets.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 9-24-2007)
§ 209.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions there under and all other activities relating to emergency
management are hereby declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of
this section shall not affect the right of any person to receive benefits to
which he or she would otherwise be entitled under this resolution or under the
worker's compensation law, or under any pension law, nor the right of any
person to receive any benefits or compensation under any act of Congress.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 9-24-2007)
§ 209.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 9-24-2007)
CHAPTER 210: ADVISORY COMMISSIONS
Section
   
210.01   Establishment of commissions
   
210.02   Members and terms
   
210.03   Compensation
   
210.04   Meetings
   
210.05   Duties and authority
   
210.06   Scope
   
210.07   Application of state laws
§ 210.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSIONS.
   The Council may from time to time find it necessary to establish advisory
fact-finding bodies to aid the Council in specific areas. These bodies shall be
called "commissions" and shall be established by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 210.01)
§ 210.02 MEMBERS AND TERMS.
   (1)   Number. The commissions may consist of seven members or any other
number of members established in the authorizing resolution.
   (2)   Residency. Members of commissions shall be residents of the city.
   (3)   Terms of office. Members' terms of office shall be for three years
commencing January 1 in the year following the enabling resolution except that
the terms of the first set of members on any commission shall be staggered so
that no more than one-half of the total number of members on any commission
shall expire in any one year.
   (4)   Removal. Members may be removed prior to the end of their term only by
two-thirds vote of all Council members. Any member missing three consecutive
board or commission meetings or more than one-third of the meetings held within
the calendar year shall be subject to removal.
   (5)   Appointments and vacancies. Members of commissions shall be appointed
by the Mayor with Council approval. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired
term, through appointment by the Mayor with Council approval.
   (6)   Chairperson, vice-chairperson and secretary. Each commission shall
have a chairperson, vice-chairperson and a secretary appointed by the Council
whose term shall expire each December 31. The secretary need not be a member of
the commission.
(Prior Code, § 210.02)
§ 210.03 COMPENSATION.
   Except as provided elsewhere in this code, members of commissions shall
serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 210.03)
§ 210.04 MEETINGS.
   (1)   Frequency. Meetings shall be a minimum of once per month or may be
called by the chairperson or set by the Council as often as necessary to
accomplish the duties of the commission.
   (2)   Quorum. Fifty-one percent of any commission shall constitute a quorum
for the conduct of business except that when required by statute or by
Chapter 202 a two-thirds vote of all commission members shall be required.
   (3)   Rules of conduct. All commissions shall operate in accordance with the
procedures established by
Chapter 202.
(Prior Code, § 210.04)
§ 210.05 DUTIES AND AUTHORITY.
   (1)   Duties. Commissions shall review all business items that come before
them in relation to all city ordinances and policies that exist at the time the
business comes to their agenda.
   (2)   Effect. The decisions of any commission shall be considered advisory
only and all final decisions shall rest with the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 210.05)
§ 210.06 SCOPE. 
   
Chapter 210 shall apply to all advisory commissions currently existing or
hereafter created unless specifically excluded by Council resolution.
(Prior Code, § 210.06)
§ 210.07 APPLICATION OF STATE LAWS.
   The provisions of the Government Data Practices Act, M.S. Ch. 13, the Open
Meeting Law, M.S. Ch. 13D and the laws relating to gifts to local officials,
M.S. § 471.895, as these laws may be amended from time to time, apply to the
advisory commissions and all of their members.
CHAPTER 211: PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
Section
   
211.01   Purpose
   
211.02   Establishment
   
211.03   Duties
   
211.04   Appointment and compensation of members
   
211.05   Park naming policy
§ 211.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide aid and advice to the Council in
its efforts to encourage productive and enjoyable harmony between people and
their leisure needs; to stimulate the health and welfare of people; to improve
and ensure a lasting quality of life within the city.
(Prior Code, § 211.01) (Am. Ord. 03-98, passed 4-27-1998)
§ 211.02 ESTABLISHMENT. 
   The Lino Lakes Board on Parks and Recreation, hereinafter referred to as the
Board, is hereby established. The Board shall operate in accordance with
Chapter 210. Membership of the Board shall consist of seven members who shall
be appointed by the Mayor, with City Council approval, for three year terms
commencing on January 1. Terms shall be staggered so that no more than one-half
of the members' terms expire at one time. Both the original and successive
appointee shall hold their respective offices until their successors are
appointed and qualified. Vacancies during the term shall be filled in the same
manner as the original appointments are made for the unexpired portion of the
term vacated. Every appointed member shall before entering upon the discharge
of his or her duties have taken an oath that he or she will faithfully
discharge the duties of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 211.02) (Am. Ord. 03-98, passed 4-27-1998)
§ 211.03 DUTIES. 
   The Board shall:
   (1)   Develop plans for the physical development of all present and future
city parks, based on the projected recreational needs of the city and its
citizens. The plans shall include a topographical lay-out of the park and all
facilities, plus development cost estimates, a proposed development time
schedule and an annual operating budget;
   (2)   Develop policies and plans for a long-range city park acquisition
program. The plan shall be consistent with the city's land use comprehensive
land and park land dedication policy. The completed program shall include
probable needed park locations, sizes and facilities plus acquisition and
development cost estimates to include landscaping and equipment felt necessary
and policy statement supporting the long-range plan;
   (3)   Develop policies concerning recreational use of city park facilities;
   (4)   Gather information concerning the conditions and trends in the
provision of quality leisure services both current and prospective, with the
purpose of determining whether or not the conditions and trends are appropriate
with the goals of the city;
   (5)   Develop and recommend to the Council policies to foster and promote
the improvement of leisure services and meet the social, economic, health and
other requirements and goals of the city;
   (6)   Report not less than once each year to the Council on the state and
condition of parks and recreation in the city and on the work of the Board;
   (7)   Make and furnish studies or reports thereon and recommendations with
respect to matters of policy and legislation as the Council may request;
   (8)   Examine and make recommendations on all park sites proposed to be
dedicated to the city by those proposing to plat lands within the city and
those who propose to give lands to the city for parks;
   (9)   Make recommendations on the care, maintenance and development of
existing parks;
   (10)   Act as liaison between the Council and people or organizations which
may wish to use, care for, have recommendations for the use of parks, or donate
personnel, monies or equipment for parks and recreation in the city;
   (11)   Work with the county on development of county park space within the
city and county; and
   (12)   Review engineering and site plans for city improvements that may in
any way change the characteristics of any city park or proposed park land.
(Prior Code, § 211.03) (Am. Ord. 03-98, passed 4-27-1998)
§ 211.04 APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS. 
   (1)   The Board shall consist of seven members, and they shall be appointed
by a majority of the council. Board Members shall receive a maximum quarterly
stipend of $225 ($75 per meeting) with the chair of the Board receiving a
quarterly stipend of $300 ($100 per meeting).
   (2)   Members will not be paid for meetings that they miss.
   (3)   If a member misses a regularly scheduled meeting, but attends a
special Park Board meeting, the monthly stipend will be paid for the special
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 211.04) (Am. Ord. 03-98, passed 4-27-1995; Am. Ord. 11-16,
passed 11-28-2016)
§ 211.05 PARK NAMING POLICY.
   (1)   Generally.
      (a)   It is resolved that a policy for naming city parks be adopted.
      (b)   The criteria for naming new parks is as follows.
   (2)   New parks.
      (a)   Naming. The Park Board will name a new park following preliminary
plat approval when a park area is indicated on the plat.
      (b)   Criteria for naming parks.
         1.   Significant or unique characteristic of the park.
         2.   Historical features relating to the parcel.
         3.   According to name of adjacent housing development(s).
         4.   According to location or street name.
         5.   Names of a community service organization.
         6.   Names that represent quality of life in Lino Lakes.
         7.   Environmental names which may represent the name of animals or
trees in the area.
      (c)   Circumstances considered in naming. Only under significant
circumstances will consideration be given to naming parks after individuals
and/or organized groups, associations or businesses. To be considered, the
individual, group, association or business, must have made a significant and
exceptional contribution to the park involved or the community as a whole. The
contributions should be for recreational purposes.
      (d)   Plaques. In addition, recognition plaques, memorial plaques or
dedications may be placed throughout the park system at the discretion of the
Public Services Director with the recommendation of the Park Board.
   (3)   Existing parks.
      All existing parks will be officially named as to what they have been
regularly referred to.
Arena Acres         Pheasant Hills
Behm's Century Farm Quail Ridge
Birch Park          Highland Meadows
Birchwood Acres     Shenandoah
Brandywood          South Reshanau Lake Estates
City Hall           Sunrise
Clearwater Creek    Sunset Oaks
Country Lakes       Wenzel Farms
LaMotte Park        Woods of Baldwin Lake
Lino                Wollan Park
Marsham
 
      (d)   Renaming parks.
         1.   Procedure. If a group of individuals are interested in renaming
their neighborhood park, the following procedure will be required.
            a.   Obtain at least 50% of signatures from at least one adult
homeowner from each residence within the designated service area as determined
by the Public Services Director (generally one-half mile radius);
            b.   The suggested new name and the rationale for the changing must
appear in the petition. The petition will be submitted to the Park Board for
consideration.
            c.   The Park Board will make the recommendation (if any) to the
City Council for final approval.
         2.   Criteria for renaming parks.
            a.   Significant or unique characteristic of the park.
            b.   Historical features relating to parcel.
            c.   According to name of adjacent housing developement(s).
            d.   According to location or street name.
            e.   Names of a community service organization.
            f.   Names that represent quality of life in Lino Lakes.
            g.   Environmental names which may represent the name of animals or
trees in the area.
(Res. 98-47, passed 4-13-1998)
CHAPTER 212: PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD
Section
   
212.01   Planning and Zoning Board established and membership
   
212.02   Meetings, officers, procedures
   
212.03   Removal
   
212.04   Duties
   
212.05   Meetings
   
212.06   Compensation for members
§ 212.01 PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD ESTABLISHED AND MEMBERSHIP.
   A city planning board to be known as the Planning and Zoning Board is hereby
established. The Planning and Zoning Board shall serve as the city's planning
agency as defined by M.S. § 462.354, as it may be amended from time to time.
Membership of the Planning and Zoning Board shall consist of seven members who
shall be appointed by the Mayor, with City Council approval, for three-year
terms commencing on January 1. Terms shall be staggered so that no more than
one-half of the members' terms expire at one time. Both the original and
successive appointee shall hold their respective offices until their successors
are appointed and qualified. Vacancies during the term shall be filled in the
same manner as the original appointments are made for the unexpired portion of
the term vacated. Every appointed member shall before entering upon the
discharge of his or her duties, have taken an oath that he or she will
faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 212.01)
§ 212.02 MEETINGS, OFFICERS, PROCEDURES.
   The Board shall establish regular meeting dates and shall hold at least one
regular meeting each month. Special meetings may be called by any two members
of the Board upon three days written notice to all members. The Commission
shall establish rules of procedure as may be deemed necessary. The Board shall
select a chairperson, vice-chairperson and secretary from its membership who
shall serve for terms of one year, beginning January 1, of each year.
(Prior Code, § 212.02)
§ 212.03 REMOVAL.
   Any Board member may be removed prior to the end of the term only by two-
thirds vote of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 212.03)
§ 212.04 DUTIES.
   The Planning Board shall have the duties as assigned in this code and any
other ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 212.04)
§ 212.05 MEETINGS.
   Meetings shall be held at least once per month, as called by the
chairperson, or as set by the Council. Fifty-one percent shall constitute a
quorum. Procedure shall be governed by
Chapter 202.
(Prior Code, § 212.05)
§ 212.06 COMPENSATION FOR MEMBERS.
   (1)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall receive a maximum quarterly
stipend of $225 ($75 per meeting) with the Chair of the Board receiving a
quarterly stipend of $300 ($100 per meeting).
   (2)   Members will not be paid for meetings that they miss. If a member
misses a regularly scheduled meeting, but attends a special Planning and Zoning
Board meeting, the monthly stipend will be paid for the special meeting.
(Prior Code, § 212.06) (Am. Ord. 20-95, passed 11-13-1995; Am. Ord. 11-16,
passed 11-28-2016)
CHAPTER 213: UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
Section
   
213.01   Unclaimed property defined
   
213.02   Procedure
   
213.03   Found property
   
213.04   Perishable or dangerous property
   
213.05   Money
   
213.06   Property seized as evidence
   
213.07   Disposal
§ 213.01 UNCLAIMED PROPERTY DEFINED.
   UNCLAIMED PROPERTY means any money or personal property, except animals and
motor vehicles, lawfully coming into the possession of the city and remaining
unclaimed by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 213.01)
§ 213.02 PROCEDURE.
   (1)   General. The Chief of Police shall make a reasonable and diligent
effort to find the owner of any unclaimed property and restore the same to him
or her.
   (2)   Motor vehicles. Abandoned motor vehicles shall be disposed of as
provided by M.S. Ch. 168B, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 213.02)
§ 213.03 FOUND PROPERTY.
   A receipt shall be issued to any person who finds lost or abandoned property
or money and delivers it to the custody of the city. The person may indicate in
writing that he or she wished to assert a claim to the property or money as a
finder. If the finder so indicates, and the property or money remains unclaimed
by the owner for 60 days, the property or money shall be delivered to the
finders.
(Prior Code, § 213.03)
§ 213.04 PERISHABLE OR DANGEROUS PROPERTY.
   Any unclaimed property which is perishable, or which would lose the greater
part of its value by being retained for 60 days, or which is determined by the
Chief of Police to be dangerous shall be disposed of at the discretion of the
Chief of Police in the manner deemed appropriate by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 213.04)
§ 213.05 MONEY.
   Any money which is not claimed by the owner within 60 days or by a finder
pursuant to §
213.03, or which was seized from illegal gambling, shall be deposited in the
city's general fund.
(Prior Code, § 213.05)
§ 213.06 PROPERTY SEIZED AS EVIDENCE.
   Any property seized as evidence shall, when no longer needed as evidence, be
returned to the owner, unless otherwise subject to lawful detention. The
property which is otherwise subject to lawful detention shall be destroyed or
otherwise disposed of as directed by the court.
(Prior Code, § 213.06)
§ 213.07 DISPOSAL.
   (1)   City use. Any unclaimed property for which no other manner of disposal
is provided by §§
213.01 through
213.06 and which is not claimed by the owner within 60 days may be appropriated
to city use upon approval of the appropriation by the Council.
   (2)   Sale. Any property described in division (1) which is not appropriated
to city use shall be sold in a manner that provides access for the public,
following proper notice not less than one week prior to the sale. The notice
shall contain the following information:
      (a)   The date, time and location or electronic medium of the sale;
      (b)   The general description of the property to be sold;
      (c)   The terms of payment; and
      (d)   The manner in which the sale shall be conducted.
   (3)   Proceeds. The proceeds of any sale shall be placed in the general fund
of the city, or in any other fund of the city as the City Council may, from
time to time, designate by resolution. The former owner of any property so sold
may claim the sale price of the sale of the former property within six months
from the date of the sale from the fund; provided, however, that the former
owner shall only be entitled to the sale price upon proof of the former
ownership and less reasonable expenses incurred in the storage, care, keeping
and sale of the property.
   (4)   Unsold property. Any unclaimed property remaining unsold after the
attempted sale shall be disposed of as directed by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 213.07) (Am. Ord. 20-11, passed 10-10-2011)
CHAPTER 214: RECOVERY OF COSTS
Section
   
214.01   Intent
   
214.02   Escrow deposit required
   
214.03   Fee schedule
   
214.04   Individual fees
   
214.05   Enforcement
   
214.06   Refunds
§ 214.01 INTENT.
   Certain licensed and permitted activities carried on in the city require the
assistance of the city engineer, city attorney, city planner or other city
personnel. As these activities primarily benefit private persons rather than
the city as a whole, it is appropriate that the cost of these services be borne
by those benefitting thereby. Sections
214.01 through
214.06 are intended to provide a method whereby this end will be furthered.
(Prior Code, § 214.01)
§ 214.02 ESCROW DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   Applications for subdivision approval, rezonings, conditional use permits,
planned unit developments, zoning variances, sewer connection permits, liquor
licenses, building permits and other municipal considerations may require a
cash deposit which shall be placed in an applicant's escrow account in an
amount sufficient to pay all engineering, legal and planning fees incurred by
the city, and any other costs as may be made the applicant's responsibility, in
connection with the application and the supervision, inspection and
investigation of the permitted activity. The deposit shall be held in the
account and shall be credited to the applicant making the deposit. All
engineering, legal and planning fees and any other costs as may be made the
applicant's responsibility incurred in connection with an application shall be
charged to the applicant's escrow account and credited to the city.
(Prior Code, § 214.02)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 214.03 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (1)   The Council shall establish by ordinance fees for services rendered by
the city attorney, city engineer, city planner and other city personnel.
   (2)   The fee schedule shall be provided to all persons making applications
listed in §
214.02 upon request.
(Prior Code, § 214.03)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 214.04 INDIVIDUAL FEES.
   Based on the fee schedule adopted pursuant to §
214.03, the Administrator shall determine the amount of the escrow deposit
required after consultation with the city attorney, city engineer, city planner
or other city personnel whose services may be required. All time, services and
materials to be billed to an escrow account shall be itemized.
(Prior Code, § 214.04)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 214.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (1)   Application. The application listed in §
214.02 shall not be accepted or processed by the city unless accompanied by an
escrow deposit as provided in this chapter, even if the fee is contested under
the provisions of M.S. § 462.353, Subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (2)   Deficits. If at any time it appears that a deficit will occur in any
escrow account, the Administrator may then require an additional deposit in the
escrow account sufficient to cover the additional expenses. Failure to make
additional deposits, or to pay to the city money owed for legal, engineering or
other services for which the applicant is by ordinance made responsible in
connection with an application in §
214.02 shall be grounds for denial or revocation of the permit or license or
cessation of work on a particular project. The permit or license shall be
revoked only after a hearing preceded by ten days written notice.
(Prior Code, § 214.05)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 214.06 REFUNDS.
   Any money remaining in an applicant's escrow account after payment of all
required engineering, legal and other fees shall be returned to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 214.06)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
CHAPTER 215: JOINT POWERS AGREEMENTS
Section
   
215.01   Intent
   
215.02   Joint powers agreements
§ 215.01 INTENT.
   It is often in the city’s interest to enter into agreements with one or more
other governmental units in order to undertake projects, provide services or
otherwise exercise powers in a manner that is more efficient and cost effective
than if the city acted alone. Such agreements are usually limited in scope and
duration and do not create a separate joint powers entity. In those instances,
however, where the joint powers agreement both creates a Joint Powers Board and
requires ongoing financial contributions from the city, there is a potential
for the city’s financial obligations to be disproportionate to the amount of
control the city may exercise on the Board. Particularly in the area of public
safety, such a disparity between funding and control may not be in the city’s
best interests. Section
215.02 is intended to prevent such disparities in certain joint powers
agreements.
(Ord. 14-15, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 215.02 JOINT POWERS AGREEMENTS.
   The city shall not approve a joint powers agreement that:
   (1)   Provides public safety services (police or fire);
   (2)   Creates a Joint Powers Board; and
   (3)   Requires financial contributions from the city, unless the city’s
voting power on the Joint Powers Board relative to the other Board members is
proportional to the city financial obligations relative to the other Board
members.
(Ord. 14-15, passed 12-28-2015)
CHAPTER 216: CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS REPORT REQUIRED FROM CANDIDATES FOR MAYOR
AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
216.01   General election laws to apply
§ 216.01 GENERAL ELECTION LAWS TO APPLY.
   (1)   The general laws of the State of Minnesota pertaining to Campaign
Financial Reporting and Fair Campaign Practices shall apply for all municipal
elections.
   (2)   Copies of state laws, session laws and rules may be easily obtained
through the internet at the following link:
      https://www.revisor.leg.state.mn.us/pubs/
CHAPTER 217: ENVIRONMENTAL BOARD
Section
   
217.01   Purpose
   
217.02   Establishment
   
217.03   Duties
   
217.04   Compensation of members
§ 217.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide aid and advice to the Council in
its efforts to encourage productive and enjoyable harmony between people and
their environment; to promote efforts which will prevent or eliminate damage to
the environment and stimulate the health and welfare of people; to enrich the
understanding of the ecological systems and natural resources important to the
city; to advise the city in the use and management of its natural resources in
order to preserve and enhance the environmental amenities for present and
future residents, and to improve and ensure a lasting quality of life within
the city.
(Prior Code, § 217.01) (Ord. 04-98, passed 4-27-1998)
§ 217.02 ESTABLISHMENT. 
   (1)   The Lino Lakes Board on Environment, hereinafter referred to as the
Board, is established. The Board shall operate in accordance with
Chapter 210.
   (2)   Membership of the Environmental Board shall consist of seven members
who shall be appointed by the Mayor with City Council approval for three-year
terms commencing on January 1. Terms shall be staggered so that no more than
one-half of the members' terms expire at one time. Both the original and
successive appointee shall hold their respective offices until their successors
are appointed and qualified. Vacancies during the term shall be filled in the
same manner as the original appointments are made for the unexpired portion of
the term vacated. Every appointed member shall before entering upon the
discharge of his or her duties have taken an oath that he or she will
faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 217.02) (Ord. 04-98, passed 4-27-1998)
§ 217.03 DUTIES. 
   The Board shall:
   (1)   Oversee a natural resource inventory and management plan and create a
database to be used to make land use recommendations that:
      (a)   Preserve important natural and cultural sites;
      (b)   Provide greenways and corridors connecting natural areas and other
points of interest;
      (c)   Preserve and enhance wildlife habitat;
      (d)   Preserve and enhance water conveyances, water quality and wetland
habitat;
      (e)   Preserve and establish a healthy urban forest;
      (f)   Promote bio-diversity;
   (2)   Review land use and development proposals for compliance with the
natural resource regulations, ordinances and landscaping and forestry needs and
make recommendations for improvements and the mitigation of environmental
impacts;
   (3)   Cooperate with other municipalities, counties, state agencies and
watershed groups on matters of environmental issues;
   (4)   Provide for environmental community education programs;
   (5)   Submit grant proposals to raise money for projects;
   (6)   Serve as a resource to other city advisory boards;
   (7)   Hold public meetings to address environmental issues;
   (8)   Develop and recommend to the Council policies, ordinances and
procedures for the management of natural resources and conservation
development;
   (9)   Make recommendations on the planning, development, maintenance and
budget needs of natural, native, forest and botanical improvement projects that
are consistent with the Environmental Management Plan; and recommend a budget
for materials, human resources and equipment to provide for support of these
functions;
   (10)   Make recommendations on land acquisition for greenways and other
important natural areas consistent with the Environmental Management Plan;
   (11)   Gather information concerning the conditions and trends in the
quality of the environment, both current and prospective, with the purpose of
determining whether or not these conditions and trends are likely to interfere
with the goals of the city;
   (12)   Report not less than once each year to the Council on the state and
condition of the environment in the city and on the work of the commission;
   (13)   Make and furnish studies or reports thereon and recommendations with
respect to matters of policy and legislation as the Council may request;
   (14)   Act as liaison between the Council and people or organizations which
may wish to develop and care for natural areas and projects that enhance the
natural character of public lands or donate personnel, moneys or equipment for
the enhancement of the city natural resources;
   (15)   Work with the county on the management of county park space within
the city and county; and
   (16)   Make recommendations to the City Council on issues concerning solid
waste and recycling.
(Prior Code, § 217.03) (Ord. 04-98, passed 4-27-1998)
§ 217.04 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS. 
   (1)   Members shall receive a maximum quarterly stipend of $225 ($75 per
meeting) with the Chair of the Board receiving a quarterly stipend of $300
($100 per meeting).
   (2)   Members will not be paid for meetings that they miss. If a member
misses a regularly scheduled meeting, but attends a special Environmental Board
meeting, the monthly stipend will be paid for the special meeting.
(Prior Code, § 217.04) (Ord. 04-98, passed 4-27-1998; Am. Ord. 11-16, passed
11-28-2016)
CHAPTER 218: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
218.01   Fee schedule
§ 218.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 03-25, adopted 3-10-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 14-25, adopted 8-11-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   Pursuant to Minnesota law, the Lino Lakes City Charter, and the Lino Lakes
City Code, and upon a review of a study conducted by city staff, a fee schedule
for city services and licensing is hereby adopted as follows:
   (1)   Alcoholic beverages.
Type Amount
Type                                                    Amount
3.2 beer off-sale                                       $200/year
3.2 beer on-sale                                        $300/year
3.2 beer on-sale temporary                              $50 plus $5/day
Club license                                            $300/year
Liquor license investigation (initial application only) $267.75 (1 or 2)
                                                        $ 471.75 (3+)
Liquor license on-sale                                  $4,500/year
Liquor license off-sale                                 $200/year
Liquor temporary permit                                 $50
On-sale brewer taproom                                  $500/year
Off-sale growler                                        $200/year
Sunday liquor                                           $200/year
Wine license                                            $500/year
 
   (2)   Amusement and commercial recreation.
 
Type                        Amount
Cabaret license             $35
Dances                      $200/year
Gambling permit application $10
 
   (3)   Business and miscellaneous.
Type Amount
Type                                    Amount
Assessment search fee                   $20/search
Background check fee                    $35/background
Cannabinoid license investigation       $267.75 (1 or 2)
(initial application only)              $471.75 (3+)
Cannabinoid license                     $250/year
City Charter                            $ — first copy
                                        $10 each additional copy
City Code book                          $140 no binder or tabs
City map                                $2.50
Comp. Plan                              $55
                                        $ — /page (1 - 10 pages)
Copies: per page                        $0.25/page (11 - 100 pages)
                                        Actual cost 100+ pages
Copies: large scale (>11” x 17”)    $0.50/square foot
Copies: new resident labels             $5/month flat fee
CD or DVD                               $7
Dog kennel - private                    $20/year
Dog kennel – commercial               $105/year
Dog license (male/female)               $11 (not spayed or neutered)
                                        $6 (spayed or neutered)
Election filing fee                     $5
Fax charge                              $ — (1 - 10 pages)
                                        $0.25/page (11+ pages)
Garbage hauler license                  $100 (first truck)
                                        $45 each additional truck
Massage therapist license (individual)  $50 annually
Overweight permit                       $50
Pawn shop (Class A, Class B, and Class  $10,000
C)
Pawn shop, precious metal dealer,       $775 fee
secondhand goods dealer Class A         15,000 escrow deposit
background investigation (in-state)
Pawn shop, precious metal dealer,
secondhand goods dealer Class A         $20,000 fee & escrow deposit
background investigation (out-of-state)
Peddler, solicitor, transient merchant  $250/6 months
Precious metal dealer                   $10,000
                                        $73 (1 or 2 units) plus $15/unit for 3
                                       or more units (fee to be reduced by 50%
Rental housing license (annual)         if issued less than 6 months from
                                        expiration date)
Rental license re-inspection fee        $73
Return check charge                     $30
Secondhand goods dealer (Class A)       $10,000
Secondhand goods dealer (Class B and    $300
Class C)
Special event permit                    $50
Therapeutic massage business license    $200 annually
Tobacco license                         $250
Weed and mowing violation               $150 first hour
                                        $75 each additional hour
                                        $100 (2nd offense in calendar year)
   Additional admin fee              $200 (3rd and each additional offense
                                        in calendar year)
   Non-payment certification fee     $30
Zoning maps                             $5 large or colored
Zoning Ordinance                        $25
 
   (4)   Fire regulations.
Type Amount
Type                               Amount
Annual permit for sale of consumer $350 exclusive retail seller
fireworks                          $100 in conjunction with existing retail
                                   store
Burning permit                     $50
Day care/foster care inspection    $50
                                   $ — /alarm (1 - 3)
                                   in calendar year
False fire alarms                  $100/alarm (4 - 10)
                                   in calendar year
                                   $200/alarm (11+)
                                   in calendar year
Fire watch                         $50/hour
Fireworks display permit           $100
Food truck inspection              $50
Inspection outside business hours  $75/hour (2 hour minimum)
 
   (5)   Police fees.
Type Amount
Type                              Amount
Clearance letter                  $15
                                  $ — (to subject of data up to 3 pages)
Copy of report                    $1 (4th page)
                                  $0.25/page (5 - 100 pages)
Copy of report – mail in        $4 (up to 4 pages)
                                  $0.25/page thereafter
Dangerous dog registration        $255/year
Digital photographs               $25 (up to 16gb flash drive)
                                  $ — /alarm (1 - 3) in calendar year
False police alarms               $52.50/alarm (4 - 10) in calendar year
                                  $105/alarm (11+) in calendar year
Fingerprinting                    $15 (by appointment)
Other digital documentation/video $50 (up to 16gb flash drive)
Vehicle forfeiture fee            $300/vehicle
Vehicle lockouts                  $ — (no fee)
 
   (6)   Rentals and reservations.
Type Amount
Type                                          Amount
Civic complex room reservations
   Non-residents and businesses—up to 4 h$100
   Non-residents and businesses—up to 8 h$200
Field rental
   Baseball/softball drag only             $25/evening
   Baseball/softball drag and chalk        $50/evening
Picnic shelter reservation                    $25
 
   (7)   Building: construction utilities.
      (a)   Building Permit Fee Schedule. Building permit fees shall be based
on the Fee Table below. A fire suppression permit fee shall also be based on
the Fee Table. There shall be a minimum fee of $73 for all permits.
      (b)   Fee Table.
Total Valuation Fee
Total Valuation        Fee
$1 to $1,360           $73
$1,361 to $2,000       $23.50 for the first $500 plus $3.05 for each additional
                       $100, or fraction thereof, to and including $2,000
                       $69.25 for the first $2,000 plus $14 for each additional
$2,001 to $25,000      $1,000, or fraction thereof, to and including $25,000;
                       min. fee is $73
                       $391.25 for the first $25,000 plus $10.10 for each
$25,001 to $50,000     additional $1,000, or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $50,000
                       $643.75 for the first $50,000 plus $7 for each
$50,001 to $100,000    additional $1,000, or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $100,000
                       $993.75 for the first $100,000 plus $5.60 for each
$100,001 to $500,000   additional $1,000, or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $500,000
                       $3,233.75 for the first $500,000 plus $4.75 for each
$500,001 to $1,000,000 additional $1,000, or fraction thereof, to and including
                       $1,000,000
$1,000,001 and up      $5,608.75 for the first $1,000,000.00 plus $3.15 for
                       each additional $1,000, or fraction thereof
 
      (c)   Other inspections and fees.
Type Amount
Type                                                                       Amount
Accessory building permit: 200 sq. ft. or under in size                    $73
Accessory building permit: over 200 sq. ft. in size                        See Building
                                                                           Fee Table
Additional plan review required by changes, additions, or revisions        $73/hour2
                                                                           $250 plus
Antenna, city owned property                                               $6,000
                                                                           escrow
Antenna, private property                                                  See Building
                                                                           Fee Table
Change of use/occupancy inspections                                        $73/trip
Contractor lead certification verification                                 $5/permit
Contractor license                                                         $50
Contractor license verification                                            $5/permit
Curb stop covers                                                           $70
Demolition permit                                                          $73
Driveway replacement permit                                                $73
                                                                           County
Easement encroachment fee                                                  recording
                                                                           fee plus $25
Erosion control inspection fee
   Single, two-family, townhomes up to 8 units,                         $160
   multi-family >8 units
                                                                           Determined
   Commercial, industrial, and institutional                            by separate
                                                                           agreement
Fence permit: 6 feet or under in height                                    $73
Fence permit: over 6 feet in height                                        See Building
                                                                           Fee Table
For use of outside consultants for plan checking and inspections, or both  Actual cost3
Grading permit                                                             $160
   Grading permit escrow deposit (if not included in dev. contract)     $300
   Surface water management plan (if applicable and not covered in site $3,500
performance or dev. contract escrow)
Inspections for which no fee is specifically designed                      $73/trip
   Re-inspection fee                                                    $73/trip
Inspections outside of normal business hours                               $73/hour1
Irrigating or watering of new landscaping permit (sod or seed)             $ — (no fee)
Lawn sprinkler/irrigation system permit                                    $73
Manufactured home permits                                                  $250
                                                                           $158 (does
Mechanical (HVAC) fee: new construction residential                        not include
                                                                           fireplaces)
                                                                           2% of the
Mechanical (HVAC) permit: commercial                                       contract
                                                                           price ($73
                                                                           minimum fee)
                                                                           $73 plus
                                                                           $34.50 for
Mechanical (HVAC) permit: gas fireplace                                    each
                                                                           additional
                                                                           fireplace
                                                                           $73 except
                                                                           new
Mechanical (HVAC) permit: residential                                      construction
                                                                           (includes
                                                                           AC/furnace
                                                                           combined)
Metropolitan Council SAC (sewer availability charge)                       Per Met
                                                                           Council
                                                                           65% of the
                                                                           building
                                                                           permit fee
                                                                           25% of the
                                                                           building
                                                                           permit fee
Plan review fee                                                            for review
                                                                           of similar
                                                                           plans
                                                                           (master
                                                                           plan) in a
                                                                           12 month
                                                                           period
                                                                           $11/fixture
Plumbing permit                                                            ($73 minimum
                                                                           fee)
Retaining wall permit                                                      $73
Roofing permit                                                             $106
Septic installation or repair permit                                       $250
Septic pumping permit                                                      $10
Sewer connection inspection fee                                            $200
Siding permit                                                              $106
Sign permit: existing billboard                                            $85/year
Sign permit: permanent                                                     See Building
                                                                           Fee Table
Sign permit: sandwich board                                                $35
Sign permit: temporary (portable/banner)                                   $35/term
Storm pond aeration permit                                                 $150
                                                                           $160 (in
Swimming pool permit                                                       ground)
                                                                           $106 (above
                                                                           ground)
Touch pad                                                                  $18
Water connection inspection fee                                            $250
Water meter                                                                City cost
                                                                           plus $50
   MXU unit                                                             City cost
                                                                           plus $50
   Water meter + MXU unit                                               City cost
                                                                           plus $50
Window/door replacement permit                                             $79/unit
                                                                           (max $158)
Work commencing before permit issuance                                     Double
                                                                           permit fee
1 Inspections made outside of normal business hours are a three-hour minimum charge.
2 Or the total hourly cost to the jurisdiction, whichever is greatest. This cost shall
include supervision,
overhead, equipment, hourly wages, and fringe benefits of the employees involved.
3 Actual costs include administrative and overhead costs.
 
      (d)   Fee refund. Per applicant request, city staff may refund permit
fees up to 80% for voided permits. Plan review fees and state surcharge fees
are non-refundable. No refund shall be provided if permit has expired.
      (e)   All permits issued are subject to applicable state surcharge fees.
      (f)   An escrow may be required, as determined by the City Engineer, to
cover all costs incurred by the city for plan revision and construction
observation.
   (8)   Escrow deposits.
      (a)   In order to obtain a certificate of occupancy, escrow deposits
shall be collected if exterior work cannot be completed due to inclement
weather, as determined by city staff, whereupon a temporary certificate of
occupancy would be issued subject to the execution of an escrow agreement and
payment thereof. Any unfinished work must be completed within six months
(weather permitting) from the date of issuance. The following escrow amounts
are hereby established:
 
As-built surveys         $1,000
Driveway                 $1,000
Exterior concrete        $1,000
Garage floor             $1,000
Landscaping              $2,500 (landscaping may be escrowed year-round per
                         city staff)
Stucco (final coat only) $1,000
Other                    Determined by city staff at a rate of 125% of the
                         actual improvement costs
 
      (b)   Escrow deposits will be charged a $100 non-refundable
administrative fee.
      (c)   Escrow deposits can be submitted through one of the following
procedures:
         1.   Escrow can be paid to the city upon execution of an agreement
signed by both the payee and the city.
         2.   The title company or lending institution can hold the escrow upon
execution of an agreement signed by both the title company or lending
institution and the city.
      (d)   A partial release, of a multi-item escrow, will be charged a $75
non-refundable administrative fee.
   (9)   Right-of-way management.
Type Amount
Type                                                                        Amount
Excavation permit fees
   Hole (includes administration, plan review, inspection, testing and   $150
mapping)
                                                                            $ 70 /100
   Trench (includes administration, plan review, inspection, testing and lineal feet
mapping)                                                                    plus hole
                                                                            fee
Obstruction permit fee                                                      $50 plus
                                                                            $0.50/lineal
   Includes administration, recording, review and inspection             foot

Permit extension fee                                                        $55
   Includes administration, recording and review
Delay penalty
   For up to three days of non-completion and non- prior notice before
specified date. After three days an additional charge of $10 per day will   $60
be levied
                                                                            (Cost per
Degradation fee                                                             square yard
Degradation fee formula:                                                    for street
This formula covers degradation for depreciation caused by intrusion into   overlay and
the right-of- way. The depreciation applies to the original surface of the  seal-coat x
right-of-way and to the overlays and seal-coats applied to the surface. The depreciation
formula includes life expectancy schedules for each and has an estimated    schedule
cost per square yard based on the quality of the right-of-way surface       rates) x
required for different levels of traffic. This formula creates a            area of
degradation fee which is determined by the cost per square yard for street, street patch
overlay, and seal-coat, multiplied by the depreciation schedule, multiplied =
by the area of the street patch.                                            degradation
                                                                            fee
 
   (10)   Utility fees.
      (a)   Water utility rates.
Type Amount/ Rate
Type                         Amount/ Rate
Residential
   Base fee               $25/quarter/REU1
   Consumption fee
      0 - 20,000 gallon$2.19 per thousand gallons
      20,001 - 40,000  $2.43 per thousand gallons
gallons
      40,001 - 80,000  $3.04 per thousand gallons
gallons
      80,001 - 120,000 $3.65 per thousand gallons
gallons
   Over 120,000 gallons   $4.26 per thousand gallons
Non-Residential
   Base fee               $25/quarter/REU1
   Consumption fee
      0 - 20,000 gallon$2.19 per thousand gallons
      20,001 - 40,000  $2.43 per thousand gallons
gallons
      Over 40,000 gallo$2.75 per thousand gallons
Non-Residential Irrigation2
   Consumption fee
      0 - 40,000 gallon$3.04 per thousand gallons
      40,001 - 80,000  $3.65 per thousand gallons
gallons
      Over 80,000 gallo$4.27 per thousand gallons
1 REU = a residential equivalent connection:
   a. Residential - a single housing unit
   b. Non-residential - per Met Council Service Availability Charge Procedures
Manual
2 Non-Residential users with irrigation systems that do not have a separate
irrigation meter will be charged at residential rates until such time that a
separate irrigation meter is installed and inspected.
 
      (b)   Sewer utility rates.
 
Type                                             Amount/Rate
Metered Sewer
   Base fee                                   $61.48/quarter/REU1
   Consumption fee
      Over 10,000 gallons (based on winter $1.18 per thousand gallons
average)
   Flat sewer                                 $72.52/quarter/REU1
1 REU = a residential equivalent connection:
   1. Residential - a single housing unit
   2. Non-residential - per Met Council Service Availability Charge Procedures
Manual
 
      (c)   Storm water utility rates.
 
Type                   Amount
Quarterly Base Rate
   Residential fee  $12/parcel
   Non-residential f$175/acre of impervious ($12 minimum)
 
      (d)   General utility fees.
Type Amount
Type                                  Amount
Late penalty                          10% of unpaid balance,
                                      assessed per billing cycle
Non-payment certification fee         $30
Meter testing (our cost, delivered to
Minneapolis)
   5/8" - 3/4" meter test          $100
   1" meter test                   $150
   1-1/2" - 2" meter test          $250
Water meter rental                    $600 deposit
                                      $25/month
   Additional accessories          $25/month
   Water usage fee                 $5/thousand gallons
Water use violation                   $25 (first violation)
                                      $50 (second and subsequent violations)
 
      (e)   City trunk utility connection fees. The trunk utility connection
fee consists of two components: a trunk charge and an availability charge.
         1.   Trunk charge. The trunk charge shall be paid at the time of
subdivision approval or at the time of hook-up, whichever is first. Residential
trunk charges are based on one unit per dwelling unit. Commercial/industrial/
institutional (CII) trunk charges are based on a factor of 2.92 units per acre.
 
Sanitary sewer $1,801/unit
Water          $2,588/unit
 
         2.   Availability charge. For residential properties, the availability
charge shall be paid at the time of subdivision approval or at the time of
hook-up, whichever is first. Commercial/industrial/institutional availability
charges shall be paid at the time of building permit. Fees are based on the
number of sanitary access charge (SAC) units assigned by Metropolitan Council
Environmental Services (MCES). Residential uses shall be assigned one unit per
dwelling unit unless otherwise noted by MCES.
 
City sewer (CSAC) $1,686/SAC unit
City water (CWAC) $1,628/SAC unit
 
      (f)   Lateral service connection fees. The lateral service connection fee
shall be in addition to the city trunk utility connection fees. If the lot or
tract of land, or portion thereof, to be served by a lateral connection has not
been assessed for the cost of construction, then the applicant shall pay, upon
hook-up, a lateral connection in accordance with Resolution No. 02-149 (Bisel
Amendment) based on the following front foot charges:
 
Sanitary Sewer $80.10/front foot
Watermain      $75.10/front foot
 
      (g)   Vacant buildings. Owners of a commercial/industrial building(s)
connected to city water and/or sewer utilities that are vacant due to business
closures or other reasons may apply to have the number of billed REUs reduced
to one REU for purposes of calculating utility fees effective from the date the
building(s) was vacated for as long as the building(s) remains unoccupied. When
the building(s) again becomes occupied, the owner must inform the city of such
occupation, at which time the number of REUs will be determined and utility
fees assessed according to the current fee structure.
         REU = a residential equivalent connection:
         1.   Residential - a single housing unit
         2.   Non-Residential REU = per Met Council Service Availability Charge
Procedures Manual
      (h)   Surface water management.
 
                    Single/Two Family Multi Family Lots Commercial/Industrial/
                    Lots                                Institutional Property
Fee charge per acre $8,217            $11,051           $12,241
of development
Fees are based on developable land in accordance with the policy provisions
established in Resolution No. 92-70. Credits may be earned for sub-watershed
trunk improvements.
 
   (11)   Culvert prices. All culvert prices are based on market prices and
include tax and delivery and 15% administration fee.
   (12)   Land use.
      (a)   Fees.
 
Type                                                                            Amount
Alternative Urban Area-wide Review (I-35E AUAR)
   To be charged at the time of land use approval for projects within the I-3 
Corridor AUAR area that require preliminary plats; conditional use permits;     $325/
site and building plans; and planned unit developments. Once paid, the same     acre
land will not be charged again.
Administrative permit (no fee for transient merchant if issued by City Clerk)   $73
Zoning confirmation letter                                                      $75
 
      (b)   Escrow deposits (application fee required with each submittal).
Type Amount
Type                                 Amount
Application fee                      $200
Comprehensive plan amendment         $5,000 (40 acres or less)
                                     $7,500 (over 40 acres)
Conditional use permit               $1,000 residential/rural
                                     $7,500 commercial/industrial/institutional
Environmental assessment review      $12,500
Interim use permit                   $7,500
Ordinance amendment                   
   Map amendment (rezone)         $1,500 (40 acres or less)
                                     $5,000 (over 40 acres)
   Text amendment                 $1,500
Planned unit development             $5,000 (general concept plan)
                                    $12,500 (preliminary plan)
                                    $7,500 final plan
Site plan review                     $7,500
Subdivision                           
   Concept plan review            $1,500
   Minor subdivision              $3,000
                                     $5,000 (less than 5 acres)
   Preliminary plat               $7,500 (5 - 40 acres)
                                     $12,500 (over 40 acres)
                                     $1,500 (less than 5 acres)
   Final plat                     $5,000 (5 - 40 acres)
                                     $7,500 (over 40 acres)
Vacation (street, utility, drainage) $1,500
Variance or appeal                   $750
 
         1.   An escrow account shall be established as indicated above to
cover all expenses incurred by the city as part of the plan review. In the case
of applications including multiple requests, the highest escrow deposit amount
will be the only one initially required. The applicant is responsible for all
costs incurred by the city during plan review. If the escrow account drops
below 10% of the original deposit amount, the city will require the submittal
of an additional escrow deposit sufficient to cover any anticipated expenses.
Upon city determination that the project is complete or expired, the city will
return the remaining escrow deposit to the applicant.
   (13)   Development fees.
 
Type                                                Amount
GIS mapping fee                                     $90/lot
Park dedication                                      
   Commercial/industrial/assisted-living/skilled $2,600/acre
nursing
   Residential                                   $3,500/unit
Street lighting operation fee (new development)     $120/light ($8/mo/light x
                                                    15 months)
Tree preservation mitigation fee                    $500/tree
 
   (14)   Economic development assistance.
 
Type                                     Amount
Tax increment financing or tax abatement $12,500 escrow deposit
Tax exempt financing                     $2,500 application fee, plus 1%
                                         administration fee
 
   (15)   Staff time. Staff time for chargeable event/projects shall be charged
as the employee's hourly rate of pay plus benefits plus calculated overhead
costs (when applicable). Overtime will be charged at 1.5 times the calculated
hourly rate.
   (16)   Late fee. A late charge of 10% or $25, whichever is greater, will be
charged for fees not paid when due.
(Ord. 14-23, passed 11-13-2023; Am. Ord. 16-24, passed 11-12-2024)
300: PUBLIC PROPERTY AND IMPROVEMENTS
      Chapter
         
301.   PUBLIC PARKS AND GROUNDS
         
302.   STREET CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
         
303.   LOCAL IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURE
         
304.   ADMINISTRATION AND REGULATION OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
         
305.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
CHAPTER 301: PUBLIC PARKS AND GROUNDS
Section
   
301.01   Definitions
   
301.02   Removing, defacing or destroying property
   
301.03   Erection of structures
   
301.04   Littering
   
301.05   Alcoholic beverages
   
301.06   Cannabis products
   
301.07   Vehicle traffic
   
301.08   Hours
   
301.09   Overnight parking or occupancy
   
301.10   Open fires prohibited
   
301.11   Washing of vehicles
   
301.12   Discharge of firearms
   
301.13   Sale of articles
   
301.14   Posting signs and placards
   
301.15   Riding of horses and other animals
   
301.16   Unattended animals
   
301.17   Language, conduct and attire
   
301.18   Climbing of trees and on buildings
   
301.19   Posting of areas
   
301.20   Fireworks
   
301.21   Variances
   
301.22   City personnel
§ 301.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires different meanings.
   CANNABIS FLOWER, CANNABIS PRODUCTS, LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES, AND HEMP-
DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS. As defined in M.S. § 342.01.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any device manufactured, marketed, or sold as e-
cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens, mods, tank systems, or any other
product name or descriptor used for the purposes of delivering a substance
intended for human consumption through inhalation of aerosol or vapor.
   FIREARM. Any rifle, shotgun, pistol, BB gun, pellet gun, sling shot, air
rifle, and bow and arrow.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY, PUBLIC GROUNDS. Any real property owned or leased by the
city, which includes but is not limited to: city buildings and all the land
thereon, parking lots, parks, pathways and trails, and city rights-of-way,
consisting of both the traveled portion and the abutting boulevard, sidewalks
and trails, and any city personal property, such as motor vehicles, city
equipment, and the like.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other lighted or heated product that is intended
for inhalation of tobacco or cannabis/hemp products. SMOKING includes use of an
electronic delivery device.
   VEHICLE. Any vehicle or conveyance, whether motor-powered, animal-drawn or
self-propelled, and includes any trailer in two of any size, kind or
description. VEHICLE shall not include baby carriages or vehicles in the
service of the city.
(Prior Code, § 301.01) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.02 REMOVING, DEFACING OR DESTROYING PROPERTY.
   No person shall remove, deface, destroy, diminish or impair the value of
public property located on or within any public park or public grounds,
including buildings, structures, trees, shrubs, grass, vegetation, signs,
tables, benches, fireplaces, trash receptacles, notices or placards, boundary
markers or fences or any other public property either real or personal.
(Prior Code, § 301.02) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.03 ERECTION OF STRUCTURES.
   No person shall construct or erect any tent, building or structure of any
kind, whether permanent or temporary in character, or run or string any public
service utility into, upon or across any public park or public grounds, except
by written permit issued by the Clerk, after prior Council approval.
(Prior Code, § 301.03) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.04 LITTERING.
   No person shall litter or cast or allow to remain any rubbish or trash of
any kind or nature in or about any public park or public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 301.04) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.05 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   No person shall possess, display, consume or use intoxicating liquor on any
public park or public grounds, except during community festivals and as
approved by resolution of the City Council. No person shall possess, display,
consume or use 3.2% malt liquor in any public park or public grounds except in
designated areas approved by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 301.05) (Am. Ord. 04-18, passed 5-29-2018; Am. Ord. 05-23,
passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.06 CANNABIS PRODUCTS.
   No person shall consume or smoke cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived products on public property.
(Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.07 VEHICLE TRAFFIC.
   Vehicles shall be driven or parked only in designated areas on any public
park or public grounds and shall be driven therein at a maximum speed of five
miles per hour. Parking in designated areas shall be allowed only by vehicles
whose owners and/or occupants are currently using city public parks and
grounds. Motorized vehicles shall not be driven on any public grounds
designated as trails.
(Prior Code, § 301.06) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.08 HOURS.
   No person, except authorized city personnel, shall enter or be in or remain
in any public park or public grounds between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m., except by written permit issued by the Director of Public Services, after
prior Council approval.
(Prior Code, § 301.07) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.09 OVERNIGHT PARKING OR OCCUPANCY.
   Overnight parking or occupancy within any public park or public grounds is
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 301.08) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.10 OPEN FIRES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall build a fire in any place in any public park or public
grounds, at any time, except in fireplaces or receptacles provided therein by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 301.09) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.11 WASHING OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall wash any vehicle on any public park or public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 301.10) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.12 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   No person, except law officers in the discharge of their duties, shall
discharge any firearm on any public park or public grounds, at any time.
(Prior Code, § 301.11) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.13 SALE OF ARTICLES.
   No person shall sell any articles or solicit for the sale thereof on any
public park or public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 301.12) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.14 POSTING SIGNS AND PLACARDS.
   No person shall paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any sign, placard,
advertisement or inscription, on any public park or public grounds, except by
written permit issued by the Clerk, after prior approval by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 301.13) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.15 RIDING OF HORSES AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   No person shall ride a horse or any other animal on any public park or
public grounds except on designated trails or paths.
(Prior Code, § 301.14) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.16 UNATTENDED ANIMALS.
   No person shall allow any animal, of any sort, to go unattended or without
physical restraint in any public park or public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 301.15) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.17 LANGUAGE, CONDUCT AND ATTIRE.
   No person shall use abusive, boisterous or obscene language or engage in any
abusive, boisterous or obscene behavior in any public park or public grounds.
No person shall place or carry any abusive or obscene placard or sign in any
public park or public grounds. No person shall appear in any public park or
public grounds unless clad in attire which meets contemporary community
standards of decency. This section shall not be construed to prohibit any
constitutionally protected speech or expression.
(Prior Code, § 301.16) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.18 CLIMBING OF TREES AND ON BUILDINGS.
   No person shall climb any trees or climb on any building or structure in any
public park or public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 301.17) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.19 POSTING OF AREAS.
   The Council may by resolution determine from time to time the areas of any
public park and public grounds in which other activities and conduct not
amenable to efficient operation of a park or public grounds shall be prohibited
and shall post appropriate signs to notify persons thereof.
(Prior Code, § 301.18) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.20 FIREWORKS.
   No person shall possess or discharge any fireworks in any public park or
public grounds, except by written permit issued by the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 301.20) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.21 VARIANCES.
   Variances to the strict application of this chapter may be granted only by
the Council and only in unusual circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 301.21) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 301.22 CITY PERSONNEL.
   Sections
301.01 through 301.22 shall not be construed to prohibit the normal care,
operations or functions of the city or its authorized agents in any public park
or public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 301.22) (Am. Ord. 05-23, passed 8-28-2023)
CHAPTER 302: STREET CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
Section
   
302.01   Purpose and application
   
302.02   Definitions
   
302.03   Design standards
   
302.04   Construction start-up procedure
   
302.05   Construction methods
   
302.06   Construction completion and warranty
   
302.07   Variations and exceptions
§ 302.01 PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   Proper development and expansion of the city make it necessary to establish
uniform standards for the construction and improvement of streets. It is the
purpose of the these standards to encourage well planned and efficient streets
by establishing standards for design and construction. The following
specifications and standards shall apply to all streets newly constructed or on
which radical improvements are undertaken.
(Prior Code, § 302.01; Am. Ord. 03-90, passed 5-29-1990.)
§ 302.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOULEVARD. The area of a right-of-way which is located between the street
and property line on each side.
   CITY ENGINEER. A registered civil engineer appointed by the Council to
furnish engineering services in connection with any city work. The term also
shall include his or her authorized representatives.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street designated as Collector Street by the appropriate
state, county or city authority having jurisdiction over the roadway.
   COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL STREET. Any street designated as such by the city.
   LOCAL STREET. Any street not designated as an arterial, minor arterial,
collector street, commercial or industrial street.
   MINOR ARTERIAL. A street designated as Minor Arterial by the appropriate
state, county or city authority having jurisdiction over the roadway.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The land covered by a public road or other land dedicated for
public use or for certain private use such as land over which a power line
passes.
   SILT FENCE. A manufactured geotextile fabric appropriate for the use.
   SPECIFICATIONS. A detailed description setting forth the dimensions,
materials, workmanship and general conditions under which any given type of
construction is to be undertaken and carried forward by a contractor.
   STREET. The pavement structure including subbase, gravel base, bituminous
pavement, and curb and gutter.
   STREET ACCESS. The right and ability to pass from a lot to a public street
without the necessity of crossing private property.
   SUBBASE. The imported material used to improve the stability and/or strength
of the subgrade.
   SUBGRADE. The part of the roadbed at an elevation below the bottom of the
gravel base.
   TACK COAT.  A light coat of bituminous material applied to a surface prior
to placing an overlaying mixture of bituminous material.
   TESTING LABORATORY. A company or department of a company which has
recognized special expertise and skill in performing specialized tests intended
to determine compliance with specifications.
(Prior Code, § 302.02; Am. Ord. 03-90, passed 5-29-1990.)
§ 302.03 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The following standard will apply to each and every street hereafter
constructed in the city. Definite and detailed specifications and plans shall
be prepared for each individual project based upon its own location and special
features. The detailed specifications and plans shall be in accordance with
this general outline and Minnesota Department of Transportation (Mn/DOT)
standards as applicable.
   (1)   General Design Standards.
      (a)   Widths. Street right-of-way widths shall not be less than as
follows:
         Minor Arterial               120 feet
         Collector Street             80 feet
         Local Street                60 feet
         Commercial and/or Industrial          80 feet
         Service Drive (except for service       60 feet
          drive adjacent to principal arterial)
         Cul-de-sac                60 feet radius
         In cases where any temporary or permanent street has a right-of-way
width less than 60 feet, the design and specifications for construction shall
be considered as special. The design of such street shall be in such a way as
the City Engineer deems best for the contemplated use. The petitioner shall be
required to enter into special agreements pertaining to the construction of
these streets.
      (b)   Intersections. Insofar as practical, streets shall intersect at
right angles. In no case shall the angle formed by the intersection of two
streets be less than 60 degrees. Intersections having more than four corners
shall be prohibited. Adequate land for future intersection and interchange
construction needs shall be provided for.
      (c)   Deflections. When connecting street lines deflect from each other
at one point by more than ten degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with
a radius adequate to ensure a sight distance of not less then 500 feet for
arterials, 300 feet for collectors, and 100 feet for all other streets. The
council may allow greater or lessor sight distances at the recommendation of
the City Engineer.
      (d)   Street Jogs. Street jogs with centerline offsets or less than 125
feet shall be avoided
      (e)   Access to Arterials. In the case where a proposed plat is adjacent
to an arterial street, there shall be no direct vehicular or pedestrian access
from individual lots to arterials unless unavoidable in the opinion of the City
Council. Where direct access is deemed necessary, access shall included special
requirements for turn around space on the lots, combination of driveways to the
extent possible, and any other requirements of the roadway. As a general
requirements, access to arterials shall be at intervals of not less than one-
forth mile and through existing and established cross roads, where possible.
      (f)   Local Streets. Local streets shall be laid out so that their use by
through traffic will be discouraged.
      (g)   Hardship to Owners of Adjoining Property. The street arrangements
shall not be such as to cause hardship to owners of adjoining property in
platting their own land and providing convenient access to it.
      (h)   Cul-de-sacs. Cul-de-sac use shall be held to a minimum. Cu-de-sacs
when used shall be held to as short a distance as possible. The maximum length
of a cu-de-sac shall be 500 feet, measured from the centerline of the street of
origin to the end of the right-of-way. Islands in cul-de-sacs shall not be
allowed.
      (i)   Half Streets. Half streets shall be prohibited except where it will
be practical to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided, in which case the dedication of a half street may be
permitted.
      (J)   Private Streets. Private streets shall not be permitted, nor shall
public improvements be approved for any private streets.
   (2)   Detailed Design Standards.
      (a)   Pavements. The minimum standard for pavement design shall be as
follows:
         1.   Soil borings for each new street or improved street shall be
required to facilitate design and provide bidding information to the
construction contractor. The location and minimum number of such borings shall
be as required by the City Engineer on each project.
         2.   A Stabilometer R-Value shall be determined from the soils
engineer and his calculations presented to the City Engineer. Because of the
generally high and variable water table in Lino Lakes, the R-Value shall
consider the worst possible soil moisture conditions.
         3.   The R-Value shall be used to determine the necessary thicknesses
of the gravel base, bituminous binder course, and bituminous wearing course.
         4.   Streets shall be kept three feet above the water table and design
flood level of adjacent ponds, as measured from finished grade, where soil
borings or other data indicates that the street subgrade may become saturated
within three feet of the finished street grade. Special construction methods
such as use of select granular borrow subbase and/or properly designed drain
tile may be employed as an alternative with the approval of the City Engineer.
         5.   All residential streets being constructed or improved shall be
designed for a minimum of seven ton design loading and shall be capable of
carrying a minimum of 400 motor vehicles per day. If more than 400 vehicles per
day are anticipated, base and pavement design shall consider the projected
traffic. Collector, commercial and/or industrial streets shall be designed for
nine ton loading.
         6.   Subase, as necessary to meet the above criteria, shall be select
granular borrow.
         7.   A gravel base composed of 4" Mn/DOT Class 2 100% crushed
compacted or 5" Mn/DOT Class 5 compacted shall be required as a minimum.
         8.   The minimum bituminous pavement shall consist of 2" compacted
thickness of binder course conforming to the requirements of Mn/DOT
Specification 2331, Type 31, and 1½" compacted thickness of wearing course
conforming to the requirement of Mn/DOT Specification 2331, Type 41.
      (b)   Curb and Gutter. Concrete curbs and gutters shall be required for
all streets. Concrete curbs and gutters for residential streets shall be D-412
with B-618 at all catch basins, intersections, and cul-de-sac entrance radii
unless otherwise approved by the City. Collector, commercial and industrial
streets shall have B-618 concrete curbs and gutters. Expansion joints shall be
installed every 50 feet.
      (c)   Pavements Widths. Minimum pavement widths, as measured from back of
curb to back of curb, shall be 32 feet for residential streets. Collector,
commercial and industrial streets shall be designed to a width determined by
the City Engineer.
      (d)   Curb Radii.  The minimum curb radii to back of curb shall be as
follows:
         1.   Intersections and cul-de-sac entrance radii shall be 20 feet.
         2.   Cul-de-sac radii shall be 46 feet.
         3.   Collector, commercial and industrial streets shall have radii as
determined by the City Engineer.
      (e)   Grades. All centerline grades shall be at least five-tenths percent
(0.5%) and shall not exceed four percent (4%) for arterial and collector
streets and six percent (6%) for local streets. Vertical curves appropriate for
the street shall be provided. The minimum curb grade shall be five-tenths
percent (0.5%), except curbs in cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum grade of six-
tenths percent (0.6%).
      (f)   Boulevards. Boulevard design and use shall be as follows:
         1.   Boulevards shall have a grade slope of 1/4" per foot for the
eight feet adjacent to the back of curb. All slopes beyond this shall be 3:
1 ratio, maximum.
         2.   All boulevards shall be sodded or seeded with mulch in accordance
with Mn/DOT Specification 2575, and shall include three inches of acceptable
topsoil of a turf growing medium to meet Mn/DOT Specification 3877. All
disturbed areas beyond the boulevard shall also be sodded or seeded as above.
         3.   Street trees having a trunk diameter (measured 12 inches above
the ground) of not less than 2½ inches shall be planted along all streets,
where sufficient trees do not exist. These trees shall be placed at the
property line. One tree per lot shall be required. This requirement will be
satisfied and it is preferable if an equivalent number of trees of the same
size are planted in a naturalistic way in the front yards of the adjoining
lots.
         4.   Private utility placement shall occur under the established
guidelines of the city.
(Prior Code, §§302.03, 302.04, 302.11; Am. Ord. 03-90, passed 5-29-1990.
§ 302.04 CONSTRUCTION START-UP PROCEDURE.
   (1)   Engineer Required. Each new street project or street improvement shall
have plans and specifications which have been prepared and signed by a
Minnesota Registered Engineer. A copy of the plans and specifications shall be
submitted to the City Engineer or Public Works Director and approved by the
City Engineer and City Council.
   (2)   Development Contract. Prior to construction of a project by or on
behalf of a developer, the developer must submit a letter of credit in the
amount of 150% of the estimated construction cost or enter into a development
contract.
   (3)   Engineering Overview. The city shall have its engineering staff or the
City Engineer furnish a full time project representative who shall be present
during all work on street construction or improvement of streets. The developer
of the all new streets shall reimburse the city for all costs incurred for the
overview of such project.
   (4)   Preconstruction Conference.  A preconstruction conference shall be
held at which all parties having interest in the project may discuss potential
project impacts and procedures. Information which must be provided includes a
construction schedule; proof of required insurance; required permits; traffic
control schedule; name, address and phone number of the contractor; name of the
testing laboratory to be used on the project; the project engineer’s name,
address and phone number; the name of the materials suppliers; and, evidence
that the proposed base material and bituminous material has been tested and
conforms with the requirements and specifications.
   (5)   Notification. At least three working days prior to construction, the
Public Works Director or City Engineer shall be notified in writing that
construction operations will begin.
   (6)   Grade Stakes. Grade stakes shall be required before any street
construction beings. Blue tops must be provided for the subbase and gravel base
operations. The project engineer is to provide a copy of the stalking notes to
the city so spot checks can be made of the grades to determine if they confrom
with plan elevation.
(Prior Code, § 302.09; Ord. 03-90, passed 5-29-1990.
§ 302.05 CONSTRUCTION METHODS.
   The following construction methods are general and will apply to each and
every street hereafter constructed in the city:
   (1)   Silt Fence. Silt fence shall be placed as directed or approved by the
City Engineer prior to construction to provide for erosion control. Additional
silt fence shall be installed during construction as deemed necessary by the
City Engineer or Public Works Director to address site conditions.
   (2)   Clearing and Grubbing. Areas which will be disturbed by street
construction shall be stripped of all vegetation, trees and topsoil. Acceptable
topsoil may be appropriately stockpiled for reuse.
   (3)   Utilities. Sanitary sewer, water and storm sewer construction shall be
completed prior to or in conjunction with street construction.
   (4)   Compaction. The subbase and gravel base shall be compacted to a
minimum of 100% of standard proctor density. Pavement shall be compacted by the
ordinary compaction method.
   (5)   Connecting to Existing Streets. Connections to existing paved streets
shall require a straight edge cut and tack coat applied prior to paving of the
new street.
   (6)   Bituminous Paving. Successive pavement construction shall be tacked to
prior work in accordance with Mn/DOT Specification 2356.
   (7)   Turf establishment. Work required for turf establishment shall be
completed during the same construction season in which the streets were rough
graded.
   (8)   Testing. All tests herein required shall be taken by an accredited
soils testing laboratory. Tests shall be paid for by the developer on a
developer installed project. Tests will include but not be limited to:
      (a)   Density Tests. Density tests will be taken on the subbase and base
courses by a qualified testing laboratory.
      (b)   Test Rolling. This work shall consist of testing the bearing
capacity of the subgrade prior to gravel base construction by rolling with
heavy equipment. Test rolling equipment shall be in accordance with Mn/DOT
Specification 2111.2 or the contractor may use a loaded dump truck which will
deliver a minimum load of nine tons per axle. Test rolling shall be performed
when the grading is completed within 0.1 foot of the grade staked by the
Engineer and shall cover the entire top width of the pavement structure. Test
rolling shall be performed only when the Engineer and Contractor mutually agree
that the subgrade is acceptable for test rolling.
      (c)   Concrete Air Test. Air tests will be taken by a qualified testing
laboratory.
      (d)   Concrete Cylinder. Concrete cylinders will be cast and the
compressive strength determined by a qualified testing laboratory.
      (e)   Bituminous Samples. Bituminous samples shall be taken during
placement and tested by a qualified testing laboratory to check the bituminous
content, gradation and Marshall density of the bituminous material.
      (f)   Test Frequencies. Test frequencies shall be determined by the City
Engineer or Public Works Director. With the exception of test rolling in
subsection (b) above, a minimum of two tests will be required.
(Prior Code, §§ 302.06, 302.07; Am. Ord. 03-90, passed 5-29-1990.)
§ 302.06 CONSTRUCTION COMPLETION AND WARRANTY.
   (1)   Building Construction Permit. No permit shall be issued for the
construction of a new building in a subdivision until the rough grading of the
public street providing access thereto has been completed, and where
applicable, sewer and water construction in connection therewith has been
completed or is under construction. Occupancy permits for residents in a new
subdivision shall not be issued until one course of bituminous surfacing is in
place.
   (2)   Partial Maintenance. After a street has been completed to a point
where curb and gutter, the base course, and the bituminous binder course are
installed and after building permits have been issued for construction of
buildings on property fronting on such streets, the street shall be placed on
the routine maintenance list of the city. Snow plowing operations will be
carried on in the winter time. This shall not in any way constitute final
acceptance by the city and such maintenance or partial acceptance by the
council shall not have any effect upon agreements existing between the city and
the developer for further improvements on such streets. The wearing course
shall not be placed until 80% of the housing units in the development are
substantially completed.
   (3)   Sealcoating. Approximately two years after the placement of the
wearing course mixture, a sealcoat consisting of a CRS emulsified asphalt
conforming to Mn/DOT Specification 3151 applied at the rate of .035 gallons per
square yard and FA-3 aggregate conforming to Mn/DOT Specification 3137 applied
at the rate of 35 lbs. per square yard shall be placed.
   (4)   Warranty.  All new streets shall be warranted by the developer or the
contractor as to good workmanlike construction and to meet all city
requirements for a period of one year from the time the final inspection of the
street has been completed and the Council has accepted the same for full city
maintenance. This section shall not relieve the developer and contractor from
the usual contract obligations of good and workmanlike construction.
      When a contractor’s letter of credit has been established, it may be
reduced to an amount equal to 150% of the estimated cost of construction of the
wearing surface and sealcoat upon completion of all construction items,
including the gravel base or bituminous binder course; and will be further
reduced to an amount equal to 150% of the estimated cost of the bituminous
sealcoat upon the completion of the bituminous wearing course.
      Prior to acceptance by the city, the developer on developer installed
projects shall deposit with the city the sum of 20%, in the form of a surety
bond, cash, or other form of security approved by the City Council, of the
total original cost of construction to assure performance in compliance with
this section.
(Prior Code, §§ 302.05, 302.08; Am. Ord. 03-90, passed 5-29-1990.)
§ 302.07 VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (1)   The Council may permit variations from the requirements of this
chapter in specific cases which, in its opinion, do not affect the general
sense of this chapter. Additional requirements shall be complied with as
imposed by the City Engineer, Public Works Director and City Council.
   (2)   Minor variations to the requirements of this chapter may be allowed
with the consensus of the Public Works Director, City Engineer and City
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 302.14; Am. Ord. 03-90, passed 5-29-1990.
CHAPTER 303: LOCAL IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURE
Section
   
303.01   Purpose
   
303.02   Definitions
   
303.03   Initiation of improvements
   
303.04   Hearing
   
303.05   Elections
   
303.06   Ordering improvement
   
303.07   Unapproved improvement projects
   
303.08   Council procedure and financing
   
303.09   Determination of assessments
   
303.10   Deferment of special assessments
   
303.11   Allowing partial prepayments on assessments
§ 303.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the Lino Lakes City Charter,
specifically § 8.03, and for the purposes set forth therein.
(Prior Code, § 303.01)
§ 303.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOCAL IMPROVEMENT. A public improvement financed partly or wholly from
special assessments.
   PETITION. A written document presented to the Council for purposes relating
to a local improvement as set forth in this chapter. A petition shall contain a
clear statement of its purpose on the top of each page upon which signatures
appear purporting to validate the same. All signatures shall be accompanied by
the address of the signator, the date of the signature and a printing of the
signator's name.
(Prior Code, § 303.02)
§ 303.03 INITIATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (1)   Petition. A local improvement may be initiated by a petition of at
least 25% of the benefitted property owners. Provided, however, that a
benefitted property owner can only sign once regardless of the number of
benefitted parcels owned and a benefitted parcel can have only one signature.
The petition shall be presented to the City Clerk who shall place it on the
agenda at the next available Council meeting for its consideration. The Council
shall review the petition, as to its adequacy under this chapter and the City
Charter. If the Council finds that it meets the criteria therein it may adopt a
resolution by affirmative vote of the majority of all Council members which
contains the following:
      (a)   The nature and scope of the proposed improvement including the
number of benefitted property owners; and
      (b)   Shall provide a means to obtain a cost estimate for the total cost
of the improvement and unit prices thereof which will be the basis for
assessment.
   (2)   Council resolution. As an alternative to the method prescribed in
division (1) above, a local improvement may be initiated by a resolution
adopted by a four-fifths affirmative vote of all Council members. The
resolution shall contain the same provisions as the resolution set forth in
division (1) above.
(Prior Code, § 303.03)
§ 303.04 HEARING.
   (1)   Notice and setting. Upon receipt of the estimate, set forth in §
303.03 above, the Council shall by resolution set a date for a public hearing
on the proposed improvement, setting forth the time, place and purpose of the
hearing. The resolution shall be published twice, at least one week apart, in
the official newspaper of the city, no less than two weeks prior to the date of
the hearing. Additionally, a copy of the resolution, including estimated unit
prices and estimated total price thereof, shall be mailed to each benefitted
property owner at his or her last known address at least two weeks prior to the
hearing. Failure to give mailed notice or any defects in the notice shall not
invalidate the proceedings.
   (2)   Hearing. At the hearing as set above, the Council shall present a
special assessment formula and an analysis of the assessment income expected to
offset the proposed improvement cost. After presentation of the above, the
Council shall receive any written or oral statements and hear any petitioners
for or against the proposed improvement.
   (3)   Petition. A period of 60 days shall elapse after the public hearing
before any further action shall be taken by the Council on the proposed
improvement. If within a 60-day period, in a petitioning process independent of
the initiating process, a petition against the improvement be filed with the
Council, signed by a majority of the owners proposed to be assessed for the
improvement, or when the improvement has been petitioned for, signed by a
number of the owners proposed to be assessed for the improvement at least equal
to the number of those who petitioned for the improvement, the Council shall
not make the improvement at the expense of the property benefitted, unless, in
the meantime, there be filed with the Council a petition asking that the
improvement be made, signed by property owners proposed to be assessed for the
improvement at least equal in number to those who signed the petition against
the improvement; in which event the Council may disregard the petition against
the improvement.
   (4)   Petitions; generally. Any person's name who appears on any petition
allowed by this chapter or the City Charter may cause his or her name to be
withdrawn from the petition for a local improvement by filing a signed written
statement requesting the same with the Council before the petition is presented
to the Council.
(Prior Code, § 303.04)
§ 303.05 ELECTIONS.
   In the event that less than 100% of the estimated cost of any local
improvement is to be paid for by special assessment, the Council shall, within
120 days of the conclusion of the public hearing, submit the proposed local
improvement and the proposed assessment formula to a special election. If no
election is scheduled during the period, the Council shall schedule a special
election within the period. The ballot shall contain the total price, a
description of the project, unit prices and assessment formulas. If a majority
voting on the question are opposed, the Council shall proceed no further with
the local improvement. If a majority of those voting on the question are not
opposed, the Council may proceed with the improvement.
(Prior Code, § 303.05)
§ 303.06 ORDERING IMPROVEMENT.
   When the proposed improvement is allowed under the foregoing sections, the
Council may by resolution, at any time between 60 days and one year after the
conclusion of the public hearing in §
303.04(1), proceed on the improvement by advertising for bids and the letting
of the contract. Provided, however, that no contract shall be let in the event
that the contract exceeds the estimated cost of the improvement by 10%.
(Prior Code, § 303.06)
§ 303.07 UNAPPROVED IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS.
   In the event that a proposed improvement is disallowed either by petition or
election, the Council shall not consider the same improvement within one year
after the hearing on the improvement. Any reconsideration of the improvement
must be treated as a new improvement under this chapter and the City Charter.
(Prior Code, § 303.07)
§ 303.08 COUNCIL PROCEDURE AND FINANCING.
   The provisions of M.S. §§ 429.041 through 429.091, except for M.S. §
429.041, Subd. 7, as they may be amended from time to time, are adopted by
reference and shall govern local improvements as if fully set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 303.08)
§ 303.09 DETERMINATION OF ASSESSMENTS.
   All assessment of property under this chapter shall be pursuant to M.S. §
429.051, as it may be amended from time to time. Further, all properties, to
the maximum extent allowed by this chapter and law, shall be included within
the assessment district and assessed. All assessments within an assessment
district shall be uniform for the assessment based upon benefits received.
(Prior Code, § 303.09)
§ 303.10 DEFERMENT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (1)   The Council may defer the payment of any special assessments on
homestead property owned by a person who is 65 years of age or older, or who is
retired by virtue of permanent and total disability, and the City Clerk is
hereby authorized to record the deferment of special assessments where the
following conditions are met; but nothing herein contained shall be construed
to prohibit the determination of such a hardship on the basis of exceptional
and unusual circumstances not covered by these standards and guidelines where
the determination made by the City Council in a nondiscriminatory manner will
give the applicant an unreasonable preference or advantage over other
applicants:
      (a)   Any applicant must be 65 years of age or older, or retired by
virtue of permanent and total disability, and must own a legal or equitable
interest in the property applied for which must be the homestead of the
applicant.
      (b)   The applicant and any other owner of the property who resides
therein with the applicant shall not have an annual gross income in excess of
the Section 8, low income limits in effect at the time of the application (as
established by the Department of Housing and Urban Development). Income
specified in the application should be the income of the year preceding the
year in which the application is made, or the average income of the three years
prior to the year in which the application is made.
      (c)   The applicant and any other owner of the property who resides
therein with the applicant shall not have gross assets (excluding the homestead
property) in excess of $50,000.
      (d)   The Assessor’s Market Value of the applicant’s homestead parcel
shall not exceed $60,000.
      (e)   The limitations on an applicant’s assets and property market value
may be adjusted on an annual basis upon recommendation of the City
Administrator and motion of the City Council.
      (f)   Unless otherwise provided under the resolution adopting the
assessment, all such deferred assessments shall bear interest at the rate of
two percent above the city’s borrowing rate.
      (g)   This procedure shall not apply to any assessment of $100 or less.
   (2)   The deferment shall be granted for as long a period of time as the
hardship exists and the conditions as aforementioned have been met. However, it
shall be the duty of the applicant to notify the City Clerk of any change in
his status that would affect eligibility for deferment.
   (3)   The entire amount of deferred special assessments shall be due within
60 days after the loss of eligibility by the applicant. If the special
assessment is not paid within 60 days, the City Clerk shall add thereto
interest at two percent above the city’s borrowing rate from date assessments
were adopted through December 31 of the following year and the total amount of
principal and interest shall be certified to the County Auditor for collection
with taxes the following year. Should the applicant plead and prove, to the
satisfaction of the Council, that full repayment of the deferred special
assessment would cause the applicant particular undue hardship, the Council may
order that the applicant pay within 60 days a sum equal to the number of
installments of deferred special assessments outstanding and unpaid to date
(including principal and interest) with the balance thereafter paid according
to the terms and condition of the original special assessment.
   (4)   The option to defer the payment of special assessments shall terminate
and all amounts accumulated plus applicable interest shall become due upon the
occurrence of any one of the following:
      (a)   The death of the owner when there is no spouse who is eligible for
deferment.
      (b)   The sale, transfer or subdivision of all or any part of the
property.
      (c)   Loss of homestead status on the property.
      (d)   Determination by the Council for any reason that there would be no
hardship to require immediate or partial payment.
   (5)   Notice of the special assessment deferral shall be filed by the City
Clerk with the Anoka County Recorder as provided by law. Failure to record such
notice, however, shall not affect the validity of the special assessments.
   (6)   Any person, firm, entity or corporation who shall provide false
information in application for a deferral under this provision or shall violate
any term or condition contained herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as
defined by state law.
§ 303.11 ALLOWING PARTIAL PREPAYMENTS ON ASSESSMENTS.
   The city will accept partial payments on assessments exceeding $100,000.
(Prior Code, § 303.10)
CHAPTER 304: ADMINISTRATION AND REGULATION OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
Section
   
304.01   Election to manage the public right-of-way
   
304.02   Definitions
   
304.03   Permit requirement
   
304.04   Permit applications
   
304.05   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
304.06   Permit fees
   
304.07   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
304.08   Supplementary applications
   
304.09   Denial of permit
   
304.10   Installation requirements
   
304.12   Trenchless excavation
   
304.12   Inspection
   
304.13   Standards during construction or installation
   
304.14   Work done without a permit
   
304.15   Supplementary notifications
   
304.16   Revocation of permits
   
304.17   Mapping data
   
304.18   Location and relocation of facilities
   
304.19   Undergrounding
   
304.20   Damage to other facilities
   
304.21   Right-of-way vacation
   
304.22   Indemnification and liability
   
304.23   Abandoned facilities
   
304.24   Appeal
   
304.25   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
   
304.26   Right-of-way fees and charges
§ 304.01 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (1)   To provide for the health, safety and welfare of its citizens, and to
ensure the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-
way, the city strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good repair and
free from unnecessary encumbrances.
   (2)   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the city hereby elects pursuant M.S.
§ 237.163, Subd.2(b), as it may be amended from time to time, to manage rights-
of-way within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply in this chapter of this code. References
hereafter to "sections" are, unless otherwise specified, references to sections
in this chapter. Defined terms remain defined terms whether or not italicized.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A facility no longer in service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other
facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not abandoned
unless declared so by the right-of-way user.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right-
of-way.
   CITY. The City of Lino Lakes, Minnesota. For purposes of this chapter, CITY
means its elected officials, officers, employees and agents.
   CITY INSPECTOR. Any person authorized by the city to carry out inspections
related to the provisions of this chapter.
   COMMISSION. The State Public Utilities Commission.
   CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY. A crowded condition in the subsurface of the public
right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground facilities does not allow for construction of new underground
facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral facilities
in conformance with M.S. § 216D.04, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to
time, over a continuous length in excess of 500 feet.
   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct the right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rules 7819.110, the cost to achieve a
level of restoration as determined by the city at the time the permit is
issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration shown in plates one to 13, set
forth in Minn. Rules Parts 7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
   DEGRADATION FEE. The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by
the city to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of
the right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation
cost.
   DELAY PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching or restoration as established by
permit.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that:
      (a)   Poses a danger to life or health or of a significant loss of
property; or
      (b)   Requires immediate repair or replacement of facilities in order to
restore service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair or maintain facilities
in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. The permit, which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An EXCAVATION PERMIT
allows the holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in the
permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by an applicant to cover costs
as provided in this chapter.
   FACILITY or FACILITIES. Any tangible asset in the right-of-way required to
provide utility service.
   HOLE. An excavation in the right-of-way, with the excavation having a length
less than the width of the pavement.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS. The actual costs the city incurs in managing its rights-
of-way, including the costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing and verifying right-of-way permit applications;
inspecting job sites and restoration projects; maintaining, supporting,
protecting or moving user facilities during right-of-way work; determining the
adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work inadequately performed
after providing notice and the opportunity to correct the work; and revoking
right-of-way permits. MANAGEMENT COSTS do not include payment by a
telecommunications right-of-way user for the use of the right-of-way, the fees
and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of Minnesota Session Laws
1997, Chapter 123; M.S. § 237.162 or § 237.163, as it may be amended from time
to time, or any ordinance enacted under those sections, or the city fees and
costs related to appeals taken pursuant to this chapter.
   OBSTRUCT. To place anything tangible in a right-of-way so as to hinder free
and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a permittee to cover costs
as provided in this chapter.
   PATCH or PATCHING.
      (a)   A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in nature.
      (b)   A PATCH consists of:
         1.   The compaction of the sub-base and aggregate base; and
         2.   The replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum
of two feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions.
      (c)   A PATCH is considered full restoration only when the pavement is
included in the city's five-year project plan.
   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-
way and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate or gravel.
   PERMIT. The meaning given "right-of-way permit" in M.S. § 237.162, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way has been granted by the city under this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or non-profit, and whether natural, corporate or political.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway,
street, cart-way, bicycle lane and public sidewalk in which the city has an
interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel purposes and
utility easements of the city. A right-of-way does not include the airwaves
above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other non-wire
telecommunications or broadcast service.
   RESTORE or RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
   RESTORATION COST. The amount of money paid to the city by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to plates one to 13 of Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission rules.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. Either the excavation permit or the obstruction permit,
or both, depending on the context, required by this chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER.
      (a)   A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by M.S. §
237.162, Subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time; or
      (b)   A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way that
is used or intended to be used for providing utility service, and who has a
right under law, franchise or ordinance to use the public-right-of-way.
   SERVICE LATERAL. An underground facility that is used to transmit,
distribute or furnish gas, electricity, communications or water from a common
source to an end-use customer. A SERVICE LATERAL is also an underground
facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer's premises.
   SERVICE OR UTILITY SERVICE. Includes:
      (a)   Those services provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, Subds. 4 and 6, as they may be amended from time to time;
      (b)   Services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including
transporting of voice or data information;
      (c)   Services of a cable communications systems as defined in M.S. Ch.
238, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (d)   Natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications services
provided by the city;
      (e)   Services provided by a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Ch. 308A, as it may be amended from time to time; and
      (f)   Water, sewer, steam, cooling or heating services.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate or obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already
been issued.
   TEMPORARY SURFACE. The compaction of sub-base and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation. It is temporary in nature except when the replacement is of
pavement included in the city's capital improvement plan, and is scheduled for
completion within one year, in which case it is considered full restoration.
   TRENCH. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the pavement.
   TELECOMMUNICATION RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. A person owning or controlling a
facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the
right-of-way that is used or is intended to be used for transporting
telecommunication or other voice or data information. For purposes of this
chapter, a cable communication system defined and regulated under M.S. Ch. 238,
as it may be amended from time to time, and telecommunications activities
related to providing natural gas or electric energy services whether provided
by a public utility as defined in M.S. § 216B.02, as it may be amended from
time to time, a municipality, a municipal gas or power agency organized under
M.S. Ch. 453 and Ch. 453A, as they may be amended from time to time, or a
cooperative electric association organized under M.S. Ch. 308A, as it may be
amended from time to time, are not TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USERS for
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.03 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (1)   Permit required.  Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way, including county roads or state
highways within the city, collocate a small wireless facility, or install or
replace a wireless support structure in addition to collocate a small wireless
facility on the wireless support structure without first having obtained the
appropriate permit from the city.
      (a)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required to excavate
that part of the right-of-way described in the permit and to hinder free and
open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (b)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of right-of-way by placing
equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the extent and for the
duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not required if a person
already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same project.
      (c)   Small wireless facility permit. A small wireless facility permit is
required to collocate a small wireless facility in the right-of-way or to
install or replace a wireless support structure in the right- of-way in
addition to collocating a small wireless facility on the wireless support
structure, to the extent and for the duration described in
Chapter 305 of the Lino Lakes City Code.
   (2)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless the person:
      (a)   Makes a supplementary application for another right-of-way permit
before the expiration of the initial permit; and
      (b)   A new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (3)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules 7819.1000, Subd. 3 and
notwithstanding division (2) of this section, the city shall establish and
impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation,
obstruction, patching or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established
from time to time in the city fee schedule.
   (4)   Security. A construction performance bond in an amount determined by
the city shall be required from each applicant. A surety bond shall be from a
corporate surety authorized to do business in the state. Security required
pursuant to this subdivision shall require that the holder will perform the
work in accordance with this chapter and applicable permits and regulations,
will pay to the city any costs incurred by the city in performing work pursuant
to this chapter; and will indemnify and save the city and its officers, agents
and employees harmless pursuant to the city code. The construction performance
bond shall be released by the city upon completion of the work and compliance
with all conditions imposed by the permit. For permits allowing excavations
within public right-of-way, the construction performance bond shall be held for
a period of 24 months to guaranty the adequacy of all restoration work.
   (5)   Permit display. Permits issued under this section shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city.
   (6)   County or state rights-of-way. City permits issued for work in county
roads or state highways as defined by Minnesota law shall relate to the city's
interest in the right-of-way under M.S. § 237.162, Subd. 3, as it may be
amended from time to time. The permittee shall obtain all other permits
required by state, county or federal agencies.
   (7)   Exceptions. Nothing in this section shall be construed to repeal or
amend the provisions of a city ordinance establishing the rights of and
limitations placed on persons to plant or maintain boulevard plantings or
gardens in the area of the right-of-way between their property and the street
curb. Persons carrying out or requesting the following work shall not be deemed
to use or occupy the right-of-way within the meaning of this section, and shall
not be governed by this section. The persons are or may be governed by other
city code sections, including but not limited to, those noted below:
      (a)   Persons planting or maintaining vegetation in the boulevard.
      (b)   Persons installing driveways, sidewalks, curb and gutter or parking
lots;
      (c)   Persons erecting fences over drainage or utility easements;
      (d)   Persons engaged in snow removal activities;
      (e)   Persons installing street furnishings, mail boxes, bus stop benches
and shelters;
      (f)   Persons installing vending machines;
      (g)   Persons installing irrigation systems;
      (h)   Persons installing pet containment systems; and
      (i)   Persons installing water or sewer service lines.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008; Am. Ord. 01-19, passed 11-25-2019)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 304.04 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit shall contain, and will be considered complete only
upon compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
   (1)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities, and the following information:
      (a)   Each applicant's name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and email address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers;
      (b)   The name, address and email address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration;
      (c)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         1.   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
permittee by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Minnesota, or a form of self-insurance acceptable to the city;
         2.   Verifying that the permittee is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
            a.   Use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the permittee, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees; and
            b.   Placement and use of facilities and equipment in the right-of-
way by the permittee, its officers, agents, employees and permittees,
including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising from
completed operations, damage of underground facilities and collapse of
property.
         3.   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the coverages
required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will be
provided as to all coverages;
         4.   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
         5.   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile liability
coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by the city in
amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry out the
purposes and policies of this chapter.
      (d)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies;
      (e)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate required
to be filed under M.S. § 300.06, as it may be amended from time to time, as
recorded and certified to by the Secretary of State; and
      (f)   A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have the certificate
from the commission or other state or federal agency.
   (2)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (a)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs and other management
costs;
      (b)   Prior obstructions or excavation;
      (c)   Any undisputed loss, damage or expense suffered by the city because
of applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way or any
emergency actions taken by the city; and
      (d)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (1)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the city shall issue a permit.
   (2)   Conditions. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant there under to
protect the health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.06 PERMIT FEES.
   (1)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall establish an excavation permit
fee in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (a)   The city management costs; and
      (b)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (2)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee and shall be an amount sufficient to recover the city management
costs.
   (3)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay the fees within 30 days of billing.
   (4)   Non-refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the city
has revoked for a breach as stated in §
304.16 are not refundable.
   (5)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
   (6)   All permit fees shall be established consistent with the provisions of
Minn. Rules 7819.1000.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 304.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (1)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable as
determined by the city.
   (2)   Patch and restoration. Permittee shall patch its own work. In all
cases requiring restoration, the permittee shall, at the time of application
for an excavation permit, post a construction performance bond in accordance
with the provisions of Minn. Rules 7819.3000.
   (3)   Standards. The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the city and
shall comply with Minn. Rules 7819.1100.
   (4)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. Permittee upon
notification from the city shall correct all restoration work to the extent
necessary, using the method required by the city. The work shall be completed
within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the city, not
including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonal or
unreasonable as determined by the city.
   (5)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city at its option may do the work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, in addition to other remedies provided by
law, the city may exercise its rights under the construction performance bond.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.08 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (1)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in their
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater
area:
      (a)   Make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby; and
      (b)   Be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (2)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 304.09 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.10 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
7819.1100 and other applicable local requirements, in so far as they are not
inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163, as they may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.11 TRENCHLESS EXCAVATION.
   As a condition of all applicable permits, permittees employing trenchless
excavation methods, including but not limited to horizontal directional
drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in M.S. Ch. 216D, as it may
be amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560, and shall require
potholing or open cutting over existing underground utilities before excavating
as determined by the city.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.12 INSPECTION.
   (1)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
with Minn. Rules 7819.1300.
   (2)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work site available to city
personnel and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (3)   Authority of city.
      (a)   At the time of inspection the city may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety
or well-being of the public.
      (b)   The city may issue an order to the permittee for any work, which
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the city that the
violation has been corrected. If the proof has not been presented within the
required time, the city may revoke the permit pursuant to §
304.16.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.13 STANDARDS DURING CONSTRUCTION OR INSTALLATION.
   The permit holder shall comply with the following standards when engaging in
the work:
   (1)   Observe and comply with all laws, rules and regulations of the state;
   (2)   Conduct the operation and perform the work in a manner as to ensure
the least obstruction and interference to traffic;
   (3)   Take adequate precautions to ensure the safety of the general public
and those who require access to abutting property;
   (4)   If required by the city, notify adjoining property owners prior to the
commencement of work which may disrupt the use of and access to the adjoining
properties;
   (5)   In all cases where construction work interferes with the normal use of
the construction area, provide for closing the construction area to traffic or
to afford restricted use of the area and comply with MUTCD traffic safety
signing requirements;
   (6)   Exercise precaution at all times for the protection of persons,
including employees and property;
   (7)   Protect and identify excavations and work operations with barricade
flags, and if required, by flagmen in the daytime, and by warning lights at
night;
   (8)   Provide proper trench protection as required by O.S.H.A when necessary
and depending upon the type of soil, in order to prevent cave-ins endangering
life or tending to enlarge the excavation;
   (9)   Protect the root growth of trees and shrubbery;
   (10)   Installation of pipe (utility conductors) under concrete or
bituminous pavements shall be done by jacking, auguring or tunneling as
directed by the city unless otherwise authorized;
   (11)   All backfilling must be placed in six-inch layers at optimum moisture
and compacted with the objective of attaining 100% of standard proctor density.
Compaction shall be accomplished with hand, pneumatic or vibrating compactors
as appropriate; and
   (12)   No metal-tracked or other lugged equipment is allowed to be driven on
the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.14 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (1)   Emergency situations.
      (a)   Each person with facilities in the right-of-way shall immediately
notify the city of any event regarding its facilities which it considers to be
an emergency. The owner of the facilities may proceed to take whatever actions
are necessary to respond to the emergency. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency the owner shall apply for the necessary permits,
pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements
necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter for the actions it
took in response to the emergency.
      (b)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding facilities, the
city will attempt to contact the local representative of each facility owner
affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the city may
take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost
of which shall be borne by the person whose facilities occasioned the
emergency.
   (2)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, and as a penalty pay double the
normal fee for the permit, pay double all the other fees required by this code,
deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-of-
way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 304.15 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATIONS.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the city of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.16 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (1)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit, without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (a)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (b)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (c)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (d)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittees control; or
      (e)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued.
   (2)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit the city shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy the violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (3)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the city with a plan
acceptable to the city that will cure the breach. Permittee's failure to so
contact the city, or the permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be cause
for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (4)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorney's fees
incurred in connection with the revocation.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.17 MAPPING DATA.
   (1)   Information required. Each permittee shall provide mapping information
required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules 7819.4000 and 7819.4100.
Within 90 days following completion of any work pursuant to a permit, the
permittee shall provide the director accurate maps and drawings certifying the
"as-built" location of all equipment installed, owed and maintained by the
permittee. The maps and drawings shall include the horizontal and vertical
location of all facilities and equipment and shall be provided consistent with
the city's electronic mapping system, when practical or as a condition imposed
by the director. Failure to provide maps and drawings pursuant to this
subsection shall be grounds for revoking the permit holder's registration.
   (2) Service laterals.
      (a)   All permits issued for the installation or repair of service
laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules 7560.0150 Subp. 2
shall require the permittee's use of appropriate means of establishing the
horizontal locations of installed service laterals, and the service lateral
vertical locations in those cases where the director reasonably requires it.
Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the director evidence
satisfactory to the director of the installed service lateral locations.
      (b)   Compliance with this division and with applicable Gopher State One
Call law and Minnesota Rules governing service laterals install after December
31, 2007, shall be a condition of any city approval necessary for:
         1.   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project
including those under M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be amended from time to time; and
         2.   City approval of performance under development agreements or
other subdivision or site plan approval under M.S. Ch. 462, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (c)   The director shall reasonably determine the appropriate method of
providing the information to the city. Failure to provide prompt and accurate
information on the service laterals installed may result in the revocation of
the permit issued for the work or for future permits to the offending permittee
or its subcontractors.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.18 LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (1)   Placement, location and relocation. Placement, location and relocation
of facilities must comply with the act, with other applicable law, and with
Minn. Rules 7819.3100, 7819.5000 and 7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not
limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   (2)   Corridors. The city may assign specific corridors within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary for each type of
facility that exists, or, pursuant to current technology, that the city
reasonably expects will someday be located within the right-of-way. All
excavation, obstruction or other permits issued by the city involving the
installation or replacement of facilities shall designate the proper corridor
for the facilities at issue.
   (3)   Limitation of space. To protect health, safety and welfare or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the city shall have
the power to prohibit or city shall strive, to the extent possible, to
accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-of-way, but shall be
guided primarily by considerations of the public interest, the public's needs
for the particular utility service, the condition of the right-of-way, the time
of year with respect to essential utilities, the protection of existing
facilities in the right-of-way, and future city plans for public improvements
and development projects which have been determined to be in the public
interest.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.19 UNDERGROUNDING.
   (1)   Purpose.
      (a)   The purpose of this section is to promote the health, safety and
general welfare of the public and is intended to foster:
         1.   Safe travel over the right-of-way;
         2.   Non-travel related safety around homes and buildings where
overhead feeds are connected; and
         3.   Orderly development in the city.
      (b)   Location and relocation, installation and reinstallation of
facilities in the right-of-way or in or on other public ground must be made in
accordance with this section and is intended to be enforced consistently with
state and federal law regulating right-of-way users, specifically including but
not limited to M.S. §§ 161.45, 237.162, 237.163, 301B.01, 222.37, 238.084 and
216B.36, as they may be amended from time to time, and the Telecommunications
Act of 1996, 47 U.S.C. § 253.
   (2)   Undergrounding of facilities. Facilities newly installed, constructed
or otherwise placed in the public right-of-way or in other public property held
in common for public use must be located and maintained underground pursuant to
the terms and conditions of this section and in accordance with applicable
construction standards, subject to the exceptions below. Above-ground
installation, construction, modification or replacement of meters, gauges,
transformers, street lighting, pad mount switches, capacitor banks, re-closers
and service connection pedestals shall be allowed. These requirements shall
apply equally outside of the corporate limits of the city coincident with city
jurisdiction of platting, subdivision regulation or comprehensive planning as
may now or in the future be allowed by law.
   (3)   Undergrounding of permanent replacement, relocated or reconstructed
facilities.
      (a)   If the city finds that one or more of the purposes set forth in
division (1) above would be promoted, the city may require a permanent
replacement, relocation or reconstruction of a facility to be located, and
maintained underground, with due regard for seasonal working conditions. For
purposes of this division, RECONSTRUCTION means any substantial repair of or
any improvement to existing facilities.
      (b)   Undergrounding may be required whether a replacement, relocation or
reconstruction is initiated by the right-of-way user owning or operating the
facilities, or by the city in connection with:
         1.   The present or future use by the city or other local government
unit of the right-of-way or other public ground for a public project;
         2.   The public health or safety; or
         3.   The safety and convenience of travel over the right-of-way.
      (c)   Subject to division (4) below, all relocations from previously
placed underground facilities shall be to another underground location.
   (4)   Exceptions to undergrounding. The following exceptions to the strict
application of this subdivision shall be allowed upon the conditions stated:
      (a)   Technical/economic feasibility; promotion of policy. Above-ground
installation, construction or placement of facilities shall be allowed in
residential, commercial and industrial areas where the Council, following
consideration and recommendation by the Planning Commission, finds that:
         1.   Underground placement would place an undue financial burden upon
the landowner, ratepayers or right-of-way user or would deprive the landowner
of the preservation and enjoyment of substantial property rights;
         2.   Underground placement is impractical or not technically feasible
due to topographical, subsoil or other existing conditions which adversely
affect underground facilities placement; or
         3.   Failure to promote the purposes of undergrounding. The right-of-
way user clearly and convincingly demonstrates that none of the purposes under
division (1) above would be advanced by underground placement of facilities on
the project in question.
      (b)   Temporary service. Above-ground installation, construction or
placement of temporary service lines shall only be allowed:
         1.   During new construction of any project for a period not to exceed
three months;
         2.   During an emergency in order to safeguard lives or property
within the city; and
         3.   For a period of not more than seven months when soil conditions
make excavation impractical.
   (5)   Developer responsibility. All owners, platters or developers are
responsible for complying with the requirements of this subdivision, and prior
to final approval of any plat or development plan, shall submit to the director
written instruments from the appropriate right-of-way users showing that all
necessary arrangements with the users for installation of the facilities have
been made.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.20 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support or move facilities to protect it, the city shall notify the
local representative as early as is reasonably possible and direct placement of
facilities. The costs associated therewith will be billed to that facility
owner and must be paid within 30 days from the date of billing. Each facility
owner shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the
right-of-way, which it or its facilities damage. Each facility owner shall be
responsible for the cost of repairing any damage to the facilities of another
caused during the city's response to an emergency occasioned by that owner's
facilities.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.21 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the city vacates a right-of-way which contains facilities, the facility
owner's rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by Minn. Rules
7819.3100 Subd. 2 and 7819.3200.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.22 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By applying for and accepting a permit under this chapter, a permittee
agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance with the provisions of
Minn. Rules 7819.1250.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.23 ABANDONED FACILITIES.
   Any person who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-way shall remove
them from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with other right-of-way
repair, excavation or construction, unless this requirement is waived by the
city.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.24 APPEAL.
   (1)   A right-of-way user that:
      (a)   Has been denied a permit;
      (b)   Has had permit revoked; or
      (c)   Believes that the fees imposed are invalid, may have the denial,
revocation or fee imposition reviewed, upon written request, by the City
Council.
   (2)   The City Council shall act on a timely written request at its next
regularly scheduled meeting. A decision by the City Council affirming the
denial, revocation or fee imposition will be in writing and supported by
written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.25 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee's rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 304.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY FEES AND CHARGES.
   The fees and charges associated with this chapter shall be as established in
the city's fee schedule.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 6-23-2008)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
CHAPTER 305: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
305.01   Purpose
   
305.02   Definitions
   
305.03   Small wireless facility permit applications
   
305.04   Establishment of general standards
   
305.05   Small wireless facility application review process
   
305.06   Small wireless facility permit conditions
   
305.07   Small wireless facility permit term
   
305.08   Denial or revocation of a small wireless facility permit
   
305.09   City inspection of a small wireless facility or wireless support
structure
   
305.10   Abandonment
   
305.11   Removal of a small wireless facility or wireless support structure
   
305.12   Appeals
   
305.13   Insurance
   
305.14   Indemnification and defense of city
   
305.15   Fees and costs
§ 305.01 PURPOSE.
   (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish specific requirements for
obtaining a small wireless facility permit for the installation, mounting,
modification, operation, and replacement of small wireless facilities and
installation or replacement of wireless support structures by commercial
wireless providers in the public right-of-way. All other requests for placement
of wireless communications equipment in the city shall be in accordance with
the city’s zoning code.
   (2)   This chapter does not apply to any wireline facilities, including
wireline backhaul facilities. A wireless provider must obtain an excavation
permit pursuant to Lino Lakes City Code
Chapter 304, or other applicable authorization for use of the public right-of-
way to construct, install, replace, or modify any wireline backhaul facility,
such as fiber optic cable. The granting of a small wireless facility permit
pursuant to this chapter is not a grant of such authorization.
(Ord. 01-19, passed 11-25-2019)
§ 305.02 DEFINITIONS.
   In this chapter, the following terms shall have the meaning ascribed to them
below:
   APPLICABLE LAW. All applicable federal, state, and local laws, codes, rules,
regulations, orders, and ordinances, as the same be amended or adopted from
time to time.
   APPLICANT. Any person submitting a small wireless facility permit
application under this chapter.
   CITY. The City of Lino Lakes, Minnesota.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATIONS. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace a small wireless facility on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing
wireless support structure that is owned privately or by the city.
   DAYS. Counted in calender days unless otherwise specified. When the day, or
the last day, for taking any action or paying any fee falls on Saturday,
Sunday, or a federal holiday, the action may be taken, or the fee paid, on the
next succeeding secular or business day.
   DECORATIVE POLE. A utility pole owned, managed, or operated by or on behalf
of the city or any other governmental entity that:
      (a)   Is specifically designed and placed for an aesthetic purpose; and
   
      (b)   1.   On which a nondiscriminatory rule or code prohibits an
appurtenance or attachment, other than:
            a.   A small wireless facility;
            b.   A specialty designed informational or directional sign; or
            c.   A temporary holiday or special event attachment.
         2.   On which no appurtenance or attachment has been placed, other
than:
            a.   A small wireless facility;
            b.   A specialty designed informational or directional sign; or
            c.   A temporary holiday or special event attachment.
   DEPARTMENT. The Public Services Department of the city.
   DESIGN DISTRICT. Any district within the city within which architectural
design elements are required.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove, physically disturb, or penetrate
a part of a public right-of-way.
   FCC and COMMISSION. The Federal Communications Commission.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A geographically definable area, urban or rural, that
possesses a significant concentration, linkage or continuity of sites,
buildings, structures or objects united historically or aesthetically by plan
or physical development. A district may also comprise individual elements
separated geographically during the period of significance but linked by
association or function.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is no larger than 24
inches long, 15 inches wide, and 12 inches high, and whose exterior antenna, if
any, is no longer than 11 inches.
   OBSTRUCT. To place a tangible object in a public right-of-way so as to
hinder free and open passage over that or any part of the public right-of-way.
   PERMITTEE. A person that has been granted a small wireless facility permit
by the Department.
   PERSON. Any individual, group, company, partnership, association, joint
stock company, trust, corporation, society, syndicate, club, business, or
governmental entity. PERSON shall not include the city.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, cartway, bicycle lane, and public sidewalk in which the city has an
interest, including other dedicated right- of-way for travel purposes and
utility easement of the city.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. 
      (a)   A Wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications:
         1.   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume, or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all its exposed elements could fit within an enclosure of no
more than six cubic feet; and
         2.   All other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
facility, excluding electric meters, concealment elements, telecommunications
demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding equipment, power
transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical cable runs for the
connection of power and other services, and any equipment concealed from public
view within or behind an existing structure or concealment, is in aggregate no
more than 28 cubic feet in volume.
      (b)   A micro wireless facility.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMIT. A permit issued by the Department
authorizing the installation, mounting, maintenance, modification, operation,
or replacement of a small wireless facility or installation or replacement of a
wireless support structure in addition to collocation of a small wireless
facility on the wireless support structure.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole that is used in whole or in part to facilitate
telecommunications or electric service. It does not include a traffic signal
pole.
   WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. A facility used to transport communications data
by wire from wireless facility to a communications network.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision
of wireless service between user equipment and a wireless service network,
including:
      (a)   Equipment associated with wireless service;
      (b)   A radio transceiver, antenna, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular
and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration; and
      (c)   A small wireless facility.
   A WIRELESS FACILITY does not include:
      (a)   Wireless support structures;
      (b)   Wireline backhaul facilities; or
      (c)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cables between utility poles or wireless
support structures, or that are not otherwise immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with a specific antenna.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A provider of wireless service, including, but not
limited to, radio communication service carried on between mobile stations or
receivers and land stations, and by mobile stations communicating among
themselves and which permits a user generally to receive a call that originates
and/or terminates on the public switched network or its functional equivalent,
regardless of the radio frequencies used.
   WIRELESS SERVICE. Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or by means
of a mobile device, that is provided using wireless facilities. Wireless
service does not include services regulated under Title VI of the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, including a cable service under 47
U.S.C. § 522(6).
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure in a public right-
of-way designed to support or capable of supporting small wireless facilities,
including, but not limited to, a utility pole or a building, as reasonably
determined by the Department.
(Ord. 01-19, passed 11-25-2019)
§ 305.03 SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (1)   Application form. The Director shall develop and make publicly
available a form application. To the extent possible, the Director shall allow
for applications to be consolidated pursuant to this section. A complete
application must be submitted for each small wireless facility permit desired.
   (2)   Consolidated applications. A wireless provider may apply for up to 15
small wireless facility permits in a consolidated application, provided all
small wireless facilities in the consolidated application are located within a
two-mile radius, consist of substantially similar equipment, and are to be
collocated on similar types of wireless support structures. The Department
shall review a consolidated application as allowed by this chapter. If
necessary, the applied for small wireless facility permits in a consolidated
application may be approved or denied individually, but the Department may not
use the denial of one or more permits as a basis to deny all small wireless
facility permits in a consolidated application. Any small wireless facility
permits denied in a consolidated application shall be subject to a single
appeal.
   (3)   Information not required. The Department shall not require an
applicant to provide any information that:
      (a)   Has previously been provided to the Department by the applicant in
a small wireless facility permit application, if the applicant provides
specific reference to the previous application containing the information
sought by the Department and the previous information remains unchanged; and
      (b)   Is not reasonably necessary to review a small wireless facility
permit application for compliance with generally applicable and reasonable
health, safety, and welfare regulations, and to demonstrate compliance with
applicable Federal Communications Commission regulations governing audio
frequency exposure, or other information required by this chapter.
(Ord. 01-19, passed 11-25-2019)
§ 305.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (1)   General standards. The Director shall establish and maintain a set of
standards for the installation, mounting, maintenance, modification, operation,
or replacement of small wireless facilities and placing new or replacement
wireless support structures in the public right-of-way applicable to all
permittees under this section (the “general standards”). The general standards
shall include, but not be limited to, information to be required in a small
wireless facility permit application, design standards, construction standards,
aesthetic standards, a form application, permitting conditions, insurance and
security requirements, and rates and fees.
   (2)   Design standards. Any design standards established by the Director
shall be:
      (a)   Reasonable and nondiscriminatory, and
      (b)   Include additional installation and construction details that do
not conflict with this chapter, including, but not limited to, a requirement
that:
         1.   An industry standard pole load analysis be completed and
submitted and the city, indicating that the wireless support structure to which
the small wireless facility is to be attached will safely support the load, and
         2.   Small wireless facility equipment on new and existing wireless
support structures shall be placed higher than 15 feet above ground level. The
Director shall additionally include the following in any design standards
established under this chapter:
            a.   Any wireless support structure installed in the public right-
of-way may not exceed 50 feet above ground level, unless the city agrees to a
greater height, subject to local zoning regulations, and may be subject to
separation requirements in relation to other wireless support structures.
            b.   Any wireless support structure replacing an existing wireless
support structure that is more than 50 feet above ground level may be placed at
the height of the existing wireless support structure, unless the city agrees
to a greater height, subject to zoning regulations.
            c.   Wireless facilities constructed in the public right-of-way may
not extend more than ten feet above an existing wireless support structure.
            d.   If necessary to collocate a small wireless facility, a
wireless provider may replace a decorative pole, if the replacement pole
reasonably conforms to the design and aesthetic qualities of the displaced
decorative pole.
            e.   A wireless provider shall comply with the city’s requirements
to install facilities underground, including, without limitation, compliance
with §
304.19 (Undergrounding) of the city code.
            f.   All small wireless facilities collocated or wireless support
structures installed in a design district or historic district shall comply
with any design or concealment or other measures required by the city.
   (3)   Construction standards. Any construction standards established by the
Director shall include at least the following terms and conditions:
      (a)   Compliance with applicable law.To the extent this requirement is
not preempted or otherwise legally not enforceable, a permittee shall comply
with all applicable law and applicable industry standards.
      (b)   Prevent interference. A permittee shall collocate, install, and
continuously operate any authorized small wireless facilities and wireless
support structures in a manner that prevents interference with other wireless
facilities and other facilities in the right-of-way and the operation thereof.
With appropriate permissions from the Department, a permittee shall, as is
necessary for the safe and reliable operation, use, and maintenance of an
authorized small wireless facility or wireless support structure, maintain
trees as prescribed by standards promulgated by the Department.
      (c)   Other rights not affected. A permittee shall not construe a
contract, permit, correspondence, or other communication from the city as
affecting a right, privilege, or duty previously conferred or imposed by the
Department to or on another person.
      (d)   Restoration.  
         1.   A permittee, after any excavation of a public right-of-way, shall
provide for restoration of the affected public right-of-way and surrounding
areas, including the pavement and its foundation, to the same condition that
existed before the excavation. If a permittee fails to adequately restore the
public right-of-way within a specified date, the Department may:
            a.   Itself restore the public right-of-way and recover from the
permittee the reasonable costs of the surface restoration; or
            b.   Recover from the permittee a reasonable degradation fee
associated with a decrease in the useful life of the public right-of-way caused
by the excavation.
         2.   A permittee that disturbs uncultivated sod in the excavation or
obstruction of the public right-of-way shall plant grasses that are native to
Minnesota and, wherever practicable, that are of the local eco-type, as part of
the restoration required under this section, unless the owner of the real
property over which the public right-of-way traverses objects. In restoring the
public right-of-way, the permittee shall consult with the Department of
Wildlife Conservation regarding the species of native grasses that conform to
the requirements of this division.
      (e)   Permittee’s liability. A permittee is solely responsible for the
risk and expense of the collocation of the permittee’s small wireless facility
and installing or replacing the permittee’s wireless support structure. The
city neither warrants nor represents that any area within the public right-of-
way is suitable for such collocation or installation or replacement. A
permittee shall accept the public right-of-way “as is” and “where is” and
assumes all risks related to any use. The city is not liable for damage to
small wireless facilities due to an event of damage to a wireless support
structure in the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 01-19, passed 11-25-2019)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 305.05 SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS.
   (1)   Eligibility for review. An application shall be eligible for review if
the application conforms to the general standards adopted by the director.
   (2)   Authorization. A small wireless facility permit issued pursuant to any
application processes hereunder shall authorize:
      (a)   The installation, mounting, modification, operation, and
replacement of a small wireless facility in the public right-of-way or city-
owned property; or
      (b)   Construction of a new, or replacement of any existing, wireless
support structure, and collocation of a small wireless facility on the wireless
support structure.
   (3)   Review process. An application submitted pursuant to this section
shall be reviewed as follows:
      (a)   Submission of application. Applicant shall submit a complete
application accompanied by the appropriate application fee as set forth in §
305.15 to the Department. Prior to submitting a small wireless facility permit
application, an applicant shall inspect any wireless support structure on which
it proposes to collocate a small wireless facility and determine, based on a
structural engineering analysis by a Minnesota registered professional
engineer, the suitability of the wireless support structure for the proposed
collocation. The structural engineering analysis shall be submitted to the
Department with the application, and shall certify that the wireless support
structure is capable of safely supporting the proposed small wireless facility
considering conditions at the proposed location, including the condition of the
public right-of-way, hazards from traffic, exposure to wind, snow and ice, and
other conditions affecting the proposed small wireless facility that may be
reasonably anticipated.
      (b)   Application review period. The Department shall, within 60 days
after the date a complete application for the collocation is submitted to the
Department, issue or deny a small wireless facility permit pursuant to the
application. The Department shall, within 90 days after the date a complete
application is submitted for a new or replacement wireless support structure,
in addition to the collocation of a small wireless facility, issue or deny a
small wireless facility permit pursuant to the application. If the Department
receives applications within a single seven-day period from one or more
applicants seeking approval of small wireless facility permits for more than 30
small wireless facilities or 10 wireless support structures, the Department may
extend the 90-day review period of this division by an additional 30 days. If
the Department elects to invoke this extension, it must inform in writing any
applicant to whom the extension will be applied.
      (c)   Completeness determination. The Department shall review a small
wireless facility permit application for completeness following submittal. The
Department shall provide a written notice of incompleteness to the applicant
within ten days of receipt of the application, clearly and specifically
delineating all missing documents or information. Information delineated in the
notice is limited to documents or information publicly required as of the date
of application and reasonably related to the Department’s determination of
whether the proposed equipment falls within the definition of a small wireless
facility, and whether the proposed deployment satisfies all health, safety, and
welfare regulations applicable to the small wireless facility permit and
complies with this chapter and applicable standards promulgated by the
Department. If an applicant fails to respond to the Department’s notice of
incompleteness within 90 days, the application shall be deemed expired and no
small wireless facility permit shall be issued. Upon an applicant’s submittal
of additional documents or information in response to a notice of
incompleteness, the Department shall within ten days of submission notify the
applicant in writing of any information requested in the initial notice of
incompleteness that is still missing. Second or subsequent notices of
incompleteness may not specify documents or information that was not delineated
in the original notice of incompleteness.
      (d)   Reset and tolling of review period. In the event that a small
wireless facility permit application is incomplete, and the Department has
provided a timely and complete written notice of incompleteness, then the
applicable review period shall be reset, pending the time between when a notice
is mailed and the submittal of information in compliance with the notice.
Subsequent notices shall toll the applicable review period. An applicant and
the Department can mutually agree in writing to toll the applicable review
period at any time.
      (e)   Moratorium prohibited. Notwithstanding any applicable law to the
contrary, including, but not limited to, M.S. §§ 394.34 and 462.355, the
Department shall not establish any moratorium with respect to the filing,
receiving, or processing of applications for small wireless facility permits,
or issuing or approving small wireless facility permits.
      (f)   Nondiscriminatory processing of applications. The Department shall
ensure that any application processed under this chapter is performed on a
nondiscriminatory basis.
      (g)   Permit not required. A permittee shall provide 30 days advance
written notice to the Department, but shall not be required to obtain a small
wireless facility permit, or pay an additional small wireless facility permit
fee for:
         1.   Routine maintenance;
         2.   The replacement of a small wireless facility with a small
wireless facility that is substantially similar to or smaller in size; or
         3.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or
replacement of a micro wireless facility that is strung on a cable between
existing utility poles, in compliance with the National Electrical Safety Code.
(Ord. 01-19, passed 11-25-2019)
§ 305.06 SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (1)   General conditions of approval. In processing and approving a small
wireless facility permit, the Department shall condition its approval on
compliance with:
      (a)   Generally applicable and reasonable health, safety, and welfare
regulations consistent with the city’s public right-of-way management;
      (b)   Reasonable accommodations for a decorative pole;
      (c)   Any reasonable restocking, replacement, or relocation requirements
when a new wireless support structure is placed in the public right-of-way;
      (d)   Construction of the proposed small wireless facility within six
months from the date the small wireless facility permit is issued;
      (e)   Obtaining additional authorization for use of the public right-of-
way for the construction of wireline backhaul facilities or any other wired
facilities;
      (f)   Compliance with the city’s general standards, design standards, and
construction standards; and
      (g)   Compliance with all applicable law.
   (2)   Generally applicable and reasonable health, safety, and welfare
regulations. Generally applicable and reasonable health, safety, and welfare
regulations for purposes of this section include, without limitation, the
following:
      (a)   A structural engineering analysis by a Minnesota registered
professional engineer certifying that a wireless support structure can
reasonably support a proposed small wireless facility considering the
conditions of the street, the anticipated hazards from traffic to be
encountered at the proposed location, and any wind, snow, ice, or other
conditions that may be reasonably anticipated at the proposed location;
      (b)   A determination by the Department that, based upon reasonable
engineering judgment, a proposed small wireless facility is of excessive size
or weight or would otherwise subject a wireless support structure to an
unacceptable level of stress;
      (c)   A determination by the Department that, based upon reasonable
engineering judgment, a proposed small wireless facility would cause undue harm
to the reliability or integrity of the city’s electrical infrastructure or
would likely violate generally applicable electrical or engineering principles;
      (d)   A determination by the Department that a proposed small wireless
facility presents an unreasonable safety hazard as specifically and reasonably
identified by the Department;
      (e)   A determination by the Department that a proposed small wireless
facility impairs the city’s ability to operate or maintain the public right-of-
way;
      (f)   A determination by the Department that a proposed small wireless
facility cannot be placed due to insufficient capacity and the infrastructure
cannot be modified or enlarged consistent with the requirements of this chapter
and the Department’s general standards;
      (g)   A determination by the Department that a proposed small wireless
facility is in violation of the National Electric Safety Code or applicable
law.
   (3)   Conditions on deemed grant application. The standard in §
305.04 and the conditions in § 305.06 shall apply to every application that is
deemed approved by applicable federal and state law.
   (4)   Authorized use. An approval of a small wireless facility permit under
this section authorizes the collocation of a small wireless facility on an
existing wireless support structure to provide wireless services, or the
installation or replacement of a wireless support structure and collocation of
a small wireless facility, and shall not be construed to confer authorization
to:
      (a)   Provide any service other than wireless service;
      (b)   Construct, install, maintain, or operate any small wireless
facility or wireless support structure in a right-of-way other than the
approved small wireless facility or wireless support structure; or
      (c)   Install, place, maintain, or operate a wireline backhaul facility
in the right-of-way.
   (5)   Other permits required. Any person desiring to obstruct or perform
excavation in a public right-of-way within the city or purposes of collocating
a small wireless facility or installing or replacing a wireless support
structure shall, consistent with
Ch. 304 of the city code, obtain the necessary permit from the city prior to
conducting any such activities.
   (6)   Exclusive arrangements prohibited. The city shall not enter into an
exclusive arrangement with any person for use of a public right-of-way for the
collocation of a small wireless facility or for the installation or operation
of a wireless support structure.
   (7)   Unauthorized small wireless facility. No person shall install, mount,
modify, operate, or replace a small wireless facility in the public right-of-
way or on city-owned property, or install or replace a wireless support
structure without first obtaining a small wireless facility permit from the
city.
      (a)   If an unauthorized small wireless facility or wireless support
structure is discovered, the Department shall provide written notice to the
owner of the unauthorized small wireless facility within five days of discovery
of the unauthorized small wireless facility. If an owner of an unauthorized
small wireless facility or wireless support structure cannot be reasonably
identified, the Department need not provide any written notice.
      (b)   If the owner of an unauthorized small wireless facility or wireless
support structure can be reasonably identified, the Department may remove the
unauthorized small wireless facility or wireless support structure without
incurring liability to the owner of the wireless support facility or wireless
support structure and at the owner’s sole expense no sooner than five days
after providing notice of the Department’s discovery of the unauthorized small
wireless facility or wireless support structure to the owner.
      (c)   If the owner of the unauthorized small wireless facility or
wireless support structure cannot be reasonably identified, the Department may
remove the unauthorized small wireless facility or wireless support structure
without incurring liability to the owner of the small wireless facility or
wireless support structure and at the owner’s sole expense.
   (8)   Relocation. The Department may require a permittee to relocate or
modify a small wireless facility or wireless support structure in a public
right-of-way or on city-owned property in a timely manner and at the
permittee’s cost if the Department determines that such relocation or
modification is required to protect public health, safety, and welfare, or to
prevent interference with public works projects of the Department.
   (9)   Security required. Each permittee shall submit and maintain within the
Department a bond, cash deposit, or other security acceptable to the
Department, in a form and amount determined by the Department in accordance
with the general standards, securing the faithful performance of the
obligations of the permittee and its agents under any and all small wireless
facility permits issued to the permittee under this chapter. If, in accordance
with this chapter, the Department deducts any amounts from such security, the
permittee must restore the full amount of the security prior to the
Department’s issuance of any subsequent small wireless facility permits. The
Department shall return or cancel the security should the permittee cease to
operate any small wireless facilities in the right-of-way.
   (10)   Payment of fees required. A small wireless facility permit shall not
be issued prior to the complete payout of all applicable fees.
   (11)   Notice of assignment required. A permittee upon or within 30 calender
days after transfer, assignment, conveyance, or sublet of an attachment that
changes the permit and or billing entity or ownership responsibilities shall
provide written notification to the Department.
(Ord. 01-19, passed 11-25-2019)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 305.07 SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMIT TERM.
   A small wireless facility permit for a small wireless facility in the public
right-of-way shall have a term equal to the length of time that the small
wireless facility is in use, unless the small wireless facility permit is
revoked under this chapter or is otherwise allowed to be limited by applicable
law. The term for all other small wireless facility permits shall be for a
period of up to ten years.
(Ord. 01-19, passed 11-25-2019)
§ 305.08 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF A SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMIT.
   (1)   Permit denial. The Department may deny any small wireless facility
permits if the applicant does not comply with all provisions of this chapter,
or if the Department determines that the denial is necessary to protect public
health, safety, and welfare, or when necessary to protect the public right-of-
way and its current use.
   (2)   Permit revocation. The Department may revoke a small wireless facility
permit, with or without refund, in the event of a substantial breach of the
terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule, or regulation, or any
material condition of the small wireless facility permit. A substantial breach
includes, but is not limited to, the following:
      (a)   A material violation by act or omission of a provision of a small
wireless facility permit;
      (b)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of a small
wireless facility permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any
fraud or deceit upon the city or its citizens;
      (c)   A material misrepresentation of fact in a small wireless facility
permit application;
      (d)   a failure to correct, in a timely manner, collocation of a small
wireless facility or installation or replacement of a wireless support
structure that does not conform to applicable standards, conditions, or codes,
upon inspection and notification by the Department of the faulty condition;
      (e)   A permittee fails to make timely payments of any fees due, and does
not correct such failure within 20 days after receipt of written notice by the
city of such failure;
      (f)   A permittee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its
debts, is adjudged bankrupt, or all or part of its small wireless facilities or
wireless support structures are sold under an instrument to secure a debt and
is not redeemed by the permittee within 60 days; or
      (g)   A failure to complete collocation of a small wireless facility or
installation, modification, or replacement of a wireless support structure with
270 days of the date a small wireless facility permit authorizing such activity
is granted, unless the Department and the permittee agree to extend the 270 day
period or there is a lack of commercial power or communications transport
infrastructure to the installation site.
   (3)   Written notice required. Any denial or revocation of a small wireless
facility permit shall be made in writing and shall document the basis for the
denial or revocation. The Department shall notify the applicant or permittee in
writing within three days of a decision to deny or revoke a small wireless
facility permit. If a small wireless facility permit application is denied, the
applicant can cure the deficiencies identified by the Department and submit its
application. If the applicant resubmits the application within 30 days of
receiving written notice of the denial, it may not be charged an additional
filing or processing fee. The Department must approve or deny the revised
application within 30 days after the revised application is submitted. If a
small wireless facility permit or wireless support structure permit is revoked,
the small wireless facility or wireless support structure shall be subject to
removal in accordance with §
305.11 (Removal of a Small Wireless Facility or Wireless Support Structure).
(Ord. 01-19, passed 11-25-2019)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 305.09 CITY INSPECTION OF A SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY OR WIRELESS SUPPORT
STRUCTURE.
   (1)   Inspection permitted. The Department may inspect, at any time, a
permittee's collocation of a small wireless facility or installation or
replacement of a wireless support structure. The Department shall determine
during an inspection whether the permittee's small wireless facility or
wireless support structure is in accordance with the requirements of the
permittee's applicable small wireless facility permit and other applicable law.
   (2)   Suspension of activities. During an inspection, if the Department
determines that a permittee has violated any material term of the permittee's
small wireless facility permit or this chapter, the Department may suspend the
permittee's small wireless facility permit. The Department shall provide prompt
written notice of any suspension to a permittee, including the violations
giving rise to the suspension. A suspension under this division is effective
until a permittee corrects the alleged violation(s), at the permittee's sole
expense. If the violation(s) are not corrected within 30 days after the date of
such notice, the small wireless facility or wireless support structure shall be
subject to removal in accordance with §
305.11 (Removal of a Small Wireless Facility or Wireless Support Structure). A
permittee may appeal any suspension issued under this division to the
Department as provided in §
305.12 (Appeals).
(Ord. 01-19, passed 11-25-2019)
§ 305.10 ABANDONMENT.
   Where a small wireless facility or wireless support structure is not
properly maintained or has not been used for the primary purpose of providing
wireless services for 12 consecutive months, the Department may designate the
small wireless facility or wireless support structure as abandoned. The
Department shall provide written notice to a permittee within ten days of the
permittee's small wireless facility or wireless support structure being
designated as abandoned.
(Ord. 01-19, passed 11-25-2019)
§ 305.11 REMOVAL OF A SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY OR WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE.
   (1)   Removal permitted. The Department may remove, at permittee's expense,
or require a permittee to remove, any small wireless facility or wireless
support structure if:
      (a)   The small wireless facility permit or wireless support structure
permit is revoked under this chapter or expires without renewal; or
      (b)   The small wireless facility or wireless support structure is
designated by the Department as abandoned under §
305.10 (Abandonment).
   (2)   Notice to permittee; time to remove. The Department shall provide
written notice to the permittee that it must remove a small wireless facility
or wireless support structure under this section, including the reasons
therefor. If the permittee does not remove the small wireless facility or
wireless support structure within 30 days after the date of such notice, the
Department may remove it at the permittee's expense without further notice to
the permittee.
(Ord. 01-19, passed 11-25-2019)
§ 305.12 APPEALS.
   An applicant or permittee may have the denial or revocation of a small
wireless facility permit, or fees and costs required by this chapter reviewed,
upon written request, by the City Council or its designee. The City Council or
its designee shall act on a timely written request at its next regularly
scheduled meeting. A decision by the City Council or its designee affirming a
denial, revocation, or fee shall be in writing and supported by written
findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
(Ord. 01-19, passed 11-25-2019)
§ 305.13 INSURANCE.
   (1)   Minimum coverage. The Department shall require that each permittee
maintain in full force and effect, throughout the term of a small wireless
facility permit, an insurance policy or policies issued by an insurance company
or companies satisfactory to the city's Risk Manager. Such policy or policies
shall, at a minimum, afford insurance covering all of the permittee's
operations, vehicles, employees, agents, subcontractors, successors, and
assigns:
      (a)   Workers' compensation, in statutory amounts, with employers'
liability limits not less than $500,000 each accident, injury, or illness;
      (b)   Commercial general liability insurance with limits not less than
$2,000,000 each occurrence combined single limit for bodily injury and property
damage, including contractual liability, personal injury, products and
completed operations;
      (c)   Commercial automobile liability insurance with limits not less than
$1,000,000 each occurrence combined single limit for bodily injury and property
damage, including owned, non-owned and hired auto coverage, as applicable; and
      (d)   Contractors' pollution liability insurance, on an occurrence form,
with limits not less than $1,000,000 each occurrence combined single limit for
bodily injury and property damage and any deductible not to exceed $25,000 each
occurrence.
   (2)   Insurance requirements. Each permittee's insurance policy or policies
are subject to the following:
      (a)   Said policy or policies shall include the city and its officers and
employees jointly and severally as additional insureds, shall apply as primary
insurance, shall stipulate that no other insurance effected by the city will be
called on to contribute to a loss covered thereunder, and shall provide for
severability of interests.
      (b)   Said policy or policies shall provide that an act or omission of
one insured, which would void or otherwise reduce coverage, shall not reduce or
void the coverage as to any other insured. Said policy or policies shall afford
full coverage for any claims based on acts, omissions, injury, or damage which
occurred or arose, or the onset of which occurred or arose, in whole or in
part, during the policy period.
      (c)   Said policy or policies shall be endorsed to provide 30 calendar
days advance written notice of cancellation or any material change to the
Department.
      (d)   Should any of the required insurance be provided under a claims-
made form, a permittee shall maintain such coverage continuously throughout the
term of a small wireless facility permit, and, without lapse, for a period of
three years beyond the expiration or termination of the small wireless facility
permit, to the effect that, should occurrences during the term of the small
wireless facility permit give rise to claims made after expiration or
termination of the small wireless facility permit, such claims shall be covered
by such claims-made policies.
      (e)   Should any of the required insurance be provided under a form of
coverage that includes a general annual aggregate limit or provides that claims
investigation or legal defense costs be included in such general annual
aggregate limit, such general aggregate limit shall be double the occurrence or
claims limits specified herein.
   (3)   Indemnity obligation. Such insurance shall in no way relieve or
decrease a permittee's or its agent's obligation to indemnify the city pursuant
to this chapter.
   (4)   Proof of insurance. Before the Department will issue a small wireless
facility permit, an applicant shall furnish to the Department certificates of
insurance and additional insured policy endorsements with insurers that are
authorized to do business in the State of Minnesota and that are satisfactory
to the Department evidencing all coverages set forth herein.
(Ord. 01-19, passed 11-25-2019)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 305.14 INDEMNIFICATION AND DEFENSE OF CITY.
   (1)   Indemnification of city. As a condition of issuance of a small
wireless facility permit, each permittee agrees on its behalf and on behalf of
its agents, successors, or assigns, to indemnify, defend, protect, and hold
harmless the city from and against any and all claims of any kind arising
against the city as a result of the issuance of the small wireless facility
permit including, but not limited to, a claim allegedly arising directly or
indirectly from the following:
      (a)   Any act, omission, or negligence of a permittee or its agents,
successors, or assigns while engaged in the permitting or collocation of any
small wireless facility or installation or replacement of any wireless support
structure, or while in or about the public right-of-way that are subject to the
small wireless facility permit for any reason connected in any way whatsoever
with the performance of the work authorized by the small wireless facility
permit, or allegedly resulting directly or indirectly from the permitting or
collocation of any small wireless facility or installation or replacement of
any wireless support structure authorized under the small wireless facility
permit;
      (b)   Any accident, damage, death, or injury to any of a permittee's
contractors or subcontractors, or any officers, agents, or employees of either
of them, while engaged in the performance of collocation of any small wireless
facility or installation or replacement of any wireless support structure
authorized by a small wireless facility permit, or while in or about the public
right-of-way that are subject to the small wireless facility permit, for any
reason connected with the performance of the work authorized by the small
wireless facility permit, including from exposure to radio frequency emissions;
      (c)   Any accident, damage, death, or injury to any person or accident,
damage, or injury to any real or personal property in, upon, or in any way
allegedly connected with the collocation of any small wireless facility or
installation or replacement of any wireless support structure authorized by a
small wireless facility permit, or while in or about the public right-of-way
that are subject to the small wireless facility permit, from any causes or
claims arising at any time, including any causes or claims arising from
exposure to radio frequency emissions; and
      (d)   Any release or discharge, or threatened release or discharge, of
any hazardous material caused or allowed by a permittee or its agents about,
in, on, or under the public right-of-way.
   (2)   Defense of city. Each permittee agrees that, upon the request of the
Department, the permittee, at no cost or expense to the city, shall indemnify,
defend, and hold harmless the city against any claims as set forth in this
section, regardless of the alleged negligence of the city or any other party,
except for claims resulting directly from the sole negligence or willful
misconduct of the city. Each permittee acknowledges and agrees that it has an
immediate and independent obligation to defend the city from any claims that
actually or potentially fall within the indemnity provision, even if the
allegations are or may be groundless, false, or fraudulent, which obligation
arises at the time such claim is tendered to the permittee or its agent by the
city and continues at all times thereafter. Each permittee further agrees that
the city shall have a cause of action for indemnity against the permittee for
any costs the city may be required to pay as a result of defending or
satisfying any claims that arise from or in connection with a small wireless
facility permit, except only for claims resulting directly from the sole
negligence or willful misconduct of the city. Each permittee further agrees
that the indemnification obligations assumed under a small wireless facility
permit shall survive its expiration or completion of collocation of any small
wireless facility authorized by the small wireless facility permit.
   (3)   Additional requirements. The Department may specify in a small
wireless facility permit such additional indemnification requirements as are
necessary to protect the city from risks of liability associated with the
permittee's collocation of any small wireless facility or installation or
replacement of any wireless support structure.
(Ord. 01-19, passed 11-25-2019)
§ 305.15 FEES AND COSTS.
   (1)   Application fees. The Department shall charge a fee for reviewing and
processing a small wireless facility permit application. The purpose of this
fee is to enable the Department to recover its costs directly associated with
reviewing a small wireless facility permit application.
      (a)   The Department shall charge a fee of $500 for a small wireless
facility permit application seeking to collocate up to five small wireless
facilities. This fee shall increase by $100 for each additional small wireless
facility that an applicant seeks to collocate.
      (b)   The Department shall charge a fee of $1,000 for a small wireless
facility permit application seeking to install or replace a wireless support
structure in addition to collocating of a small wireless facility on the
wireless support structure.
      (c)   Commencing January 1, 2020, the Department shall adjust the
application fees annually by the consumer price index for the Minneapolis-St.
Paul area.
   (2)   Annual small wireless facility permit fee. The Department shall charge
an annual small wireless permit fee for each small wireless facility permit
issued to a permittee. The annual small wireless permit fee shall be determined
by the Director and listed in the city's fee schedule. The annual small
wireless permit fee shall be based upon the recovery of the city's rights-of-
way management costs.
   (3)   City-owned wireless support structure fees. The Department shall
charge the following fees to the owner of any small wireless facility
collocated on a wireless support structure owned by the city or its assigns
located in the public right-of-way:
      (a)   One-hundred-fifty dollars per year for rent to occupy space on the
wireless support structure;
      (b)   Twenty-five dollars per year for maintenance associated with the
space occupied on the wireless support structure; and
      (c)   a monthly fee for electricity used to operate the small wireless
facility, if not purchased directly from a utility, at the rate of:
         1.   Seventy-three dollars per radio node less than or equal to 100
max watts;
         2.   One hundred eighty-two dollars per radio node over 100 max watts;
or
         3.   The actual costs of electricity if the actual costs exceed the
above.
      (d)   The applicant may opt to pay an annual fee upfront for the cost of
electricity based on an annualized calculation.
   (4)   City-owned property fees. The Department shall charge an annual fee
for collocating small wireless facilities on city-owned property not located in
the public right-of-way. The Department shall determine a reasonable and
nondiscriminatory annual fee on a per location and per request basis.
   (5)   Discretion to require additional fees. In instances where the review
of a small wireless facility permit application is or will be unusually costly
to the Department, the Director, in his or her discretion, may, after
consulting with other applicable city departments, agencies, boards, or
commissions, require an applicant to pay a sum in excess of the other fee
amounts charged pursuant to this section. This additional sum shall be
sufficient to recover the actual, reasonable costs incurred by the Department
and/or other city departments, agencies, boards, or commissions, in connection
with a small wireless facility permit application and shall be charged on a
time and materials basis. Whenever additional fees are charged, the Director,
upon request, shall provide in writing the basis for the additional fees and an
estimate of the additional fees. The Department may not require a fee imposed
under this chapter through the provision of in-kind services by an applicant as
a condition of consent to use city's public rights-of-way or to obtain a small
wireless facility permit.
   (6)   Reimbursement of city costs. The Department may determine that it
requires the services of an expert in order to evaluate a small wireless
facility permit application. In such cases, the Department shall not issue a
small wireless facility permit pursuant to the application unless the applicant
agrees to reimburse the Department for the actual, reasonable costs incurred
for the services of a technical expert.
(Ord. 01-19, passed 11-25-2019)
400: WATER AND SEWER
      Chapter
         
401.   MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM
         
402.   SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
         
403.   INDIVIDUAL SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS
         
404.   STORMWATER UTILITY
         
405.   REGULATION OF DISCHARGES INTO THE STORM SEWER SYSTEM
CHAPTER 401: MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM
Section
   
401.01   General operation
   
401.02   Connection with water required
   
401.03   Use of water restricted to authorized persons
   
401.04   Willful damage to water system
   
401.05   Discontinuance of service for violations
   
401.06   Deficiency of water and shutting off of water
   
401.07   Supply from one service
   
401.08   Tapping of mains prohibited
   
401.09   Repair of leaks
   
401.10   Abandoned services
   
401.11   Service pipes
   
401.12   Excavation and construction requirements
   
401.13   Private water supplies
   
401.14   Use confined to premises
   
401.15   Connections beyond city boundaries
   
401.16   Private wells
   
401.17   Use of water for air conditioning
   
401.18   Permits required for air conditioning
   
401.19   Connection applications
   
401.20   Service charges
   
401.21   Damage to shut off box
   
401.22   Time for connections
   
401.23   Location of stop boxes
   
401.24   Supervision by plumber; bond required
   
401.25   Turning on water
   
401.26   Accounts, how kept
   
401.27   Water rates
   
401.28   Payment of charges
   
401.29   Penalty for late payment
   
401.30   Action to collect charges
   
401.31   Water meters
   
401.32   Water meter setting
   
401.33   Use of fire hydrants
   
401.34   Temporary connection to fire hydrants
   
401.35   Tampering
   
401.36   Utilities superintendent
   
401.37   Lawn sprinkler/irrigation systems
§ 401.01 GENERAL OPERATION.
   The city municipal water system (hereinafter called the water system) shall
be operated as a public utility and convenience from which revenue will be
derived, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 401.01)
§ 401.02 CONNECTION WITH WATER REQUIRED.
   (1)   Any buildings used for human occupancy, including all business
buildings, unless specifically exempted by the Council on the grounds that no
human beings occupy or use the buildings and no human needs are generated
therein, located on property adjacent to a water main, or in a block through
which the water extends, shall be required to petition for water service and to
connect thereto when their present on-site water system fails except as
provided for in division (3) below. The owner of the property shall pay all
assessments for water in accordance with Lino Lakes assessment policies. No
permits will be granted for reconstruction of existing on-site systems when
city water service is available to the property.
   (2)   Agricultural buildings hereafter constructed within the city on
property adjacent to a water main or in a block through which the water system
extends, shall be provided with a connection to the municipal water system for
all human needs.
   (3)   The City Council may in its discretion allow for the replacement of a
private on-site water system (well) subject to the following conditions:
      (a)   A private well existed on the property prior to availability of
municipal water services;
      (b)   The private well is not located within an area identified as a high
vulnerability or very high vulnerability area in the city’s Drinking Water
Supply Management Area (DWSMA) as amended.
      (c)   The property is connected to the municipal sanitary sewer system or
an Individual Sewage Treatment System (ISTS) determined to be in conformance
with the provisions of the city code and Minn. Rules. Ch. 7080, as amended. The
applicant shall provide a compliance inspection report completed by a licensed
ISTS inspector. If the ISTS system is determined to be noncompliant and
municipal services are provided to the site, connection to the municipal
sanitary system shall be required. All applicable connections fees shall be
paid at the time of permitting or specially assessed in accordance with the
city policy.
      (d)   Applicant shall pay the city trunk water utility connection charges
consisting of a trunk charge and availability charge. Other charges including
the lateral connection charge would not be due until time of actual connection
to the municipal water system.
(Prior Code, § 401.01a) (Ord. 13-97, passed 6-23-1997; Am. Ord. 11-19, passed
12-23-2019)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 401.03 USE OF WATER RESTRICTED TO AUTHORIZED PERSONS.
   (1)   Use of water restricted to authorized persons. No person shall make,
construct or install any water service installation or make use of any water
service which is connected to the water system except in the manner provided in
this chapter.
   (2)   Annual water use restrictions. To protect the health and safety of the
consumers and the general welfare of the city, and to encourage water
conservation, the city hereby adopts the following permanent restrictions.
      (a)   The irrigating or watering of lawns and gardens is prohibited from
May 15 to September 15 each year; provided, however, that odd-numbered property
addresses may water on odd-numbered days, and even-numbered property addresses
may water on even-numbered days.
      (b)   Homeowner's associations, apartment complexes or any property that
provide a common irrigation system may water only every other day.
      (c)   Water can not be used for the purposes of irrigating or watering
lawns, gardens, sod or seeded areas between 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. daily and
year around.
   (3)   Authority to restrict use. The City of Lino Lakes hereby reserves the
right to limit the use of water from the city water supply and distribution
system and to prescribe emergency conditions for use of water. The City
Administrator or Director of Public Services may in his or her discretion
implement emergency measures if necessary supplementing the sprinkling ban
under division (1) with a total prohibition on sprinkling.
   (4)   Exceptions. The water use restrictions in §
401.03(1) do not apply in the following situations.
      (a)   Hand watering of plants using a hose.
      (b)   Irrigating or watering of new landscaping, sod or seed within 28
days of installation. A permit for 28-day new landscaping, sod or seed watering
will be required; or
      (c)   Property owners using a private well for sprinkling.
   (5)   Violation. No person shall cause water to be used in violation of the
provisions of this section. The first violation shall result in a $25 citation,
and a $50 subsequent citation for those individuals who repeat violations.
(Prior Code, § 401.02) (Am. Ord. 14-04, passed 6-14-2004; Am. Ord. 06-08,
passed 4-14-2008)
§ 401.04 WILLFUL DAMAGE TO WATER SYSTEM.
   No person shall remove or damage any structure, appurtenance or property of
the water system or fill or partially fill any excavation or raise or open any
gate constructed or maintained for the water system.
(Prior Code, § 401.03)
§ 401.05 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (1)   Cause. Water service may be shut off at any stop box connection
whenever:
      (a)   The owner or occupant of the premises served, or any person working
on any pipes or equipment thereon which are connected with the water system,
violate any provision of this chapter;
      (b)   Any charge for water, service, meter or any other financial
obligations imposed on the present or former owner or occupant of the premises
served is unpaid; or
      (c)   Fraud or misrepresentation by the owner or occupant of the premises
served in connection with an application for service.
   (2)   Procedure. Water shall not be shut off under division (1) until notice
and an opportunity for a hearing have first been given the occupant of the
premises involved. The notice shall be personally served and shall state the
alleged violation and the means, if any, for its correction. It shall further
state that service shall be shut off not less than ten days after the date of
the notice unless the default is corrected and that the occupant may, before
the date, demand a hearing on the matter in which case the supply will not be
cut off until after the hearing is held. If the customer requests a hearing
before the date specified, a hearing shall be held on the matter by the City
Administrator at least one week after the date on which the request is made.
If, as a result of the hearing, the Administrator finds that the default exists
and that there is no legal reason why the water supply of the delinquent
customer may not be shut off in accordance with this chapter, the city may shut
off the supply.
(Prior Code, § 401.04)
§ 401.06 DEFICIENCY OF WATER AND SHUTTING OFF OF WATER.
   The city shall not be liable for any deficiency or failure in the supply of
water to consumers, whether occasioned by shutting the water off for the
purpose of making repairs or connections, or from any other cause whatever. In
case of fire or alarm of fire, or in making repairs or construction of new
works, water may be shut off at any time and kept off as long as necessary.
(Prior Code, § 401.05)
§ 401.07 SUPPLY FROM ONE SERVICE.
   No more than one housing unit or building shall be supplied from one service
connection except by permission of the city.
(Prior Code, § 401.06)
§ 401.08 TAPPING OF MAINS PROHIBITED.
   No person, except persons employed by the city, shall tap any distributing
main or pipe of water supply system or insert stopcocks or ferrules therein.
(Prior Code, § 401.07)
§ 401.09 REPAIR OF LEAKS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the consumer or owner to maintain the
service pipe from the water main into the house or building. In case of failure
upon the part of any consumer or owner to repair any leak occurring in his or
her pipe within 24 hours after verbal or written notice thereof, the water will
be shut off by the city and will not be turned on until a fee established in
the city fee schedule has been paid to the city and the leak repaired. When the
waste of water is great or when the damage is likely to result from the leak,
the water may be turned off immediately pending repairs.
(Prior Code, § 401.08)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 401.10 ABANDONED SERVICES.
   (1)   Abandoned service. All service installations that have been abandoned
or have not been used for three years shall be disconnected at the main and all
pipe and appurtenances removed shall be the property of the city and any
expense of the city shall be charged to the property.
   (2)   Changed service. When new buildings are erected on the site of old
ones, and it is desired to increase or change the old water service, no
connections with the mains shall be made until all the old service shall have
been removed and the main plugged by the city and any expense of the city shall
be charged to the property.
(Prior Code, § 401.09)
§ 401.11 SERVICE PIPES.
   Every service pipe must be laid sufficiently waving to allow not less than
one foot of extra length and in a manner as to prevent rupture by settlement.
The service pipe must be placed no less than seven feet below the surface and
in all cases so arranged as to prevent rupture by freezing. Service pipes must
extend from the curb box to the inside of the building; or, if not taken into
the building, then to the hydrant or other fixtures which it is intended to
supply. Type K copper tubing shall be used up to and including two-inch
services. All underground joints are to be mechanical, unless otherwise
approved by the city plumbing inspector. Joints on copper tubing shall be kept
to a minimum, with not more than one joint used for service to 70 feet in
length. All joints and connections shall be left uncovered until inspected by
the city plumbing inspector and tested at normal water line pressure. All
services over two inches shall be cast iron. Connections with the mains for
domestic supply shall be at least one inch. One inch cast iron service
connections with one inch gate valves and boxes shall be the smallest size
permitted from the water main to the property line. Each cast iron service
shall be rodded from the water main tee to the gate valve or as directed by the
plumbing inspector.
(Prior Code, § 401.10)
§ 401.12 EXCAVATION AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (1)   Permits. No excavation shall be made until a permit for the connection
has been issued by the city.
   (2)   Standards. Materials, installation and excavation shall be governed by
the City Engineer's Association of Minnesota (CEAM) Standard Utility
Specifications for Water Main and Service Line Installation and Sanitary Sewer
and Storm Sewer Installation, Revised 1999 and as may be amended from time to
time in the future, which is hereby adopted by reference. Copies for public
review and purchase shall be kept in the office of the city engineer.
(Prior Code, § 401.11)
§ 401.13 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLIES.
   No water pipe of the water system shall be connected with any pump, well,
tank or piping that is connected with any other source of water supply.
(Prior Code, § 401.12)
§ 401.14 USE CONFINED TO PREMISES.
   No person shall permit water from the water system to be used for any
purpose except upon his or her own premises unless prior written consent is
obtained from the city.
(Prior Code, § 401.13)
§ 401.15 CONNECTIONS BEYOND CITY BOUNDARIES.
   Where water mains of the city are in any street or alley adjacent to or
outside the corporate limits of the city, the Council may issue permits to the
owners or occupants of properties adjacent or accessible to the water mains to
make proper water service pipe connections with the water mains of the city and
to be supplied with water in conformity with the applicable provisions of this
chapter and subject to any contract for the supply of water between the city
and any other municipality.
(Prior Code, § 401.14)
§ 401.16 PRIVATE WELLS.
   (1)   Continuance. Private wells may be maintained and continued in use
after connection is made to the water system, provided there is no means of
cross-connection between the private well and municipal supply at any time.
Hose bibs that will enable cross-connection of the two systems are prohibited
on internal piping of the well supply system. The threads on the boiler drain
of the well volume tank shall be removed or the boiler drain bib replaced with
a sink faucet. Where both private and city systems are in use, outside hose
bibs shall not be installed on both systems. All threaded bibs must have a back
siphon preventer installed.
   (2)   New buildings. All new homes or buildings shall connect to the
municipal water system if a water main is available to the property unless the
Council approves a private well where circumstances exist.
   (3)   Discontinuance. If the well is not continued in use at the time a
municipal water connection is made it must be sealed by a licensed well
contractor or limited well sealing contractor in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the State Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 401.15) (Am. Ord. 11-19, passed 12-23-2019)
§ 401.17 USE OF WATER FOR AIR CONDITIONING.
   All air conditioning systems which are connected directly or indirectly with
the public water system must be equipped with water conserving and water
regulating devices as approved by the city engineer.
(Prior Code, § 401.16)
§ 401.18 PERMITS REQUIRED FOR AIR CONDITIONING.
   Permits shall be required for the installation of all new air conditioning
systems to the public water system. The permits shall be on forms as provided
by the city.
(Prior Code, § 401.17)
§ 401.19 CONNECTION APPLICATIONS.
   (1)   Form. All applications for service installations and for water service
shall be made to the city on printed forms furnished by the city.
   (2)   Applicant. All applications for service installations shall be made by
the owner or owner's agent of the property to be served and shall state the
size and location of service connection required; the applicant shall at the
time of making application pay to the city the amount of fees or deposit
required for the installation of the service connection as hereinafter
provided. Applications for services larger than one inch shall be accompanied
by two sets of plans or sketches, indicating preferred location of service pipe
and size of service based on building demand.
   (3)   Prior connection. When service connections have been installed,
application for water service may be made to the city either by the owner,
owner's agent, tenant or occupant of the premises.
   (4)   Size and meters. The size of water service connections and meters
shall be subject to approval of the city engineer. For all meters up to and
including one inch size, a meter spacer with tailpiece couplings will be
furnished to the contractor or plumber, at the time a connection permit is
issued. Meter spacers will be picked up when the city installs a meter after
completion of water service installation.
   (5)   Notice to city. The plumber shall notify the city within 24 hours
after piping is complete and ready for meter installation, giving street
address and permit number.
   (6)   Billing. Water billing shall start at the time of installation of the
water meter or, in the event the meter is not installed, seven days after
completion of outside piping, and shall be calculated upon the minimum
quarterly rate, pro-rated on a monthly basis.
   (7)   Installation of water meters.
      (a)   The permit and location shall be approved by the public
superintendent.
      (b)   Installation of the water meter, remote and remote wire, raising
the curb box to finished grade, turning on the water and flushing of the lines
shall be the responsibility of a plumber duly licensed and registered according
to Minnesota Plumbing Codes. The meter setting shall be provided as follows:
         1.   Meter settings shall be located in the utility, laundry or
furnace room and in every case shall be located no more than eight feet from
the nearest floor drain unless there is prior approval from the public works
superintendent;
         2.   The setting shall be installed to provide that the meter be
between six and 12 inches from the wall and between 18 and 36 inches from the
finished floor;
         3.   The water meter shall have full accessibility with a clear space
of three feet in all directions except as noted in division (7)(b);
         4.   Each meter setting shall be provided with a ball valve on the
street side and the house side of the meter. The valves shall be well protected
from freezing;
         5.   Meter setting shall be accomplished with brass mechanical joint
ahead of the inlet ball valve;
         6.   A meter interface unit (MIU) shall be securely installed on the
exterior surface of the wall closest to the water meter. A single RJ11
telephone jack receptacle shall also be installed on the exterior surface of
the wall within 18 inches of the MIU. This jack receptacle shall be wired into
the existing active telephone circuit. The water meter encoded register (ECR)
shall be connected to the MIU with three wire conductor type as specified by
the city. The MIU shall be connected to the telephone jack with telephone wire
and a RJ11 jack plug. All wires shall be secured by use of wire ties of clips;
and
         7.   Remote reading devices: remote touch pads shall be installed in
the area of the utility meter three or four feet above finished ground level on
the finished exterior wall. Typically, the remote shall be installed on a side
wall within 12 feet of the front line of the building. In no case shall the
remote be allowed on the front or rear of the building without prior permission
from the city. The wire to the remote may not be exposed on the exterior wall.
The wire must be of three wire conductor type as specified by the city, with
two of the wires being connected to the touch pad from the MIU.
   (8)   Inspection. The city shall be notified when the meter setting is
complete, at which time the city will inspect and approve the installation,
seal the water meter and program the MIU.
(Prior Code, § 401.18) (Am. Ord. 26-97, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 401.20 SERVICE CHARGES.
   (1)   Permit fee. A permit must be obtained to connect to the existing water
service leads at the curb box and interior plumbing. The fee for the permit
shall be established in the city fee schedule.
(Am. Ord. 10-94, passed 4-11-1994)
   (2)   Added charges. Additional charges shall be paid at the time of making
application for tapping and making connections with the water mains where a
curb box and service lead is not installed, which charges shall be as follows:
      (a)   In case the installation is to be in an unsurfaced street:
         1.   One-inch service connection, to be determined in the city fee
schedule; and
         2.   This charge shall include the tapping of the water main, the
installation of the service line and the installation of the curb stop and box.
      (b)   In case the installation is to be upon a surfaced street, the
following shall apply: there shall be a fee set by the Administrator, after
consultation with the city engineer, in an amount sufficient to provide for
restoration of a higher type street. All back fill materials shall be
mechanically compacted in 12-inch layers to the density of the adjacent
material in the roadway area, in accordance with Minnesota Highway Department
standard specifications to the existing street grade;
      (c)   For all connections larger than one inch, the amount to be charged
shall be fixed by the engineer based upon the estimated cost of installing the
service; and
      (d)   The city shall install, or have installed, all service connections
from the water main to the property line. Payment for service connections must
be made before the work is started.
   (3)   Returned service. For turning on water where service has been turned
off for violation of any provision of this chapter, a service charge of $10
will be made. If turned on after normal working hours, the charge shall be $25.
(Prior Code, § 401.19)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 401.21 DAMAGE TO SHUT OFF BOX.
   Before any grading or excavation is started, the water shut off box shall be
located and checked for damage by the Utilities Department at the time a
connection permit is issued. If the shut off box cannot be located or is found
bent or in a damaged condition, the plumbing inspector is to be called at once.
The contractor assumes all responsibility for damage to shut off boxes unless
the Utilities Department certifies that damage existed before excavation or
grading started.
(Prior Code, § 401.20)
§ 401.22 TIME FOR CONNECTIONS.
   If, from any cause, the plumber or contractor laying the service pipe should
fail to have the connection made at the time specified in his or her
application, notice must be given the Utilities Department fixing another day
on which he or she wishes to make connection. The notice must be given at least
two days previous to the excavation for laying of the service pipe, and the
connection must be made before 4:30 p.m., except in special cases, and then the
work shall be done only upon a written order from the Utilities Department.
(Prior Code, § 401.21)
§ 401.23 LOCATION OF STOP BOXES.
   (1)   Curb stop boxes will be installed at a point on the property line most
suitable to the property and shall be left in an accurate position when
backfilling is completed.
   (2)   Curb stop boxes will be installed at an approximate depth of seven
feet below the grade established by the plumbing inspector.
   (3)   Type K copper tubing shall be used for installation of water services.
(Prior Code, § 401.22)
§ 401.24 SUPERVISION BY PLUMBER; BOND REQUIRED.
   All piping connections from curb box to house supply piping shall be made
under the supervision of a plumber or a water-sewer installer, subject to
inspection by the Utilities Department. Any person, firm or corporation so
engaged by the city shall furnish a surety bond in the amount of $5,000 and
will be required to file with the city a certificate of insurance evidencing
coverage, the sufficiency of which shall be determined by the city, before a
permit shall be issued. The requirement for a surety bond shall not apply to a
person licensed as a plumber or journeyman by the state.
(Prior Code, § 401.23)
§ 401.25 TURNING ON WATER. 
   No person, except an authorized city employee, shall turn on or off any
water supply at the stop box without permission from the plumbing inspector.
(Prior Code, § 401.24)
§ 401.26 ACCOUNTS, HOW KEPT.
   All accounts shall be kept by the house and street number and under the
account number assigned thereto and by the name of the owner or of the person
signing the application for service. All bills and notices shall be sent to the
house or street number of the property. If non-resident owners or agents desire
personal notice sent to a different address, they shall file an application
therefor with the city. Any error in address shall be promptly reported to the
city.
(Prior Code, § 401.25)
§ 401.27 WATER RATES.
   (1)   Rates. The rate due and payable by each user within the city for water
taken from the water system shall be established in the city fee schedule.
   (2)   Faulty meter. In case the meter is found to have stopped, or to be
operating in a faulty manner, the amount of water used will be estimated in
accordance with the amount used previously in comparable periods of the year.
   (3)   Less than a quarter. Where service is for less than a quarterly
period, the quarterly charge will be pro-rated on a monthly basis.
   (4)   Outside city. Rates due and payable by each water user located beyond
the territorial boundaries of the city shall be determined by special contract.
   (5)   Availability. Where a service pipe is connected to the stop box and
laid into the building, with no intention of connecting to the building piping
for use immediately, there shall be the same minimum rates charged as in
division (1).
   (6)   Meter required. A meter shall be installed on the street valve in the
house and a remote register outside regardless of whether inside piping is
connected.
   (7)   Service discontinued. In the event the water customer elects to
discontinue the use of the municipal water, the regular or minimum charge shall
continue until the date as the service pipe is excavated and disconnected at
the stop box.
(Prior Code, § 401.26)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 401.28 PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   Any pre-payment or over-payment of charges may be retained by the city and
applied on subsequent quarterly statements.
(Prior Code, § 401.27)
§ 401.29 PENALTY FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   Each quarterly billing for water service not paid when due shall incur a
penalty charge of 10% of the amount past due.
(Prior Code, § 401.28)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 401.30 ACTION TO COLLECT CHARGES.
   (1)   The Clerk shall certify to the county auditor the amount due, together
with a legal description of the premises served, and the county auditor shall
thereupon enter the amount for collection with the tax levy on the premises to
be collected during the ensuing year.
   (2)   In addition thereto, the city may initiate legal action to collect
amounts owed.
(Prior Code, § 401.29)
§ 401.31 WATER METERS.
   (1)   Meter required. Except for extinguishment of fires, no person, except
authorized city employees, shall use water from the water system or permit
water to be drawn therefrom, unless the same be metered by passing through a
meter supplied or approved by the city. No person not authorized by the
plumbing inspector shall connect, disconnect, take apart, or in any manner
change, or cause to be changed, or interfere with any meter or the action
thereof.
   (2)   Payment. A payment in an amount to that paid by the city for meters
shall be made by customers to the city for water meters, and payment for the
same shall be made in advance of installations. This payment shall be made only
once, subject to the following.
   (3)   Multiple lines. Where a customer has need for a larger line in
addition to his or her domestic line, as in the case of a commercial consumer
who needs a one-inch line for normal use and a six- or eight-inch line for a
fire sprinkler system, he or she will be permitted to run one line into the
premises and Y off into two lines at the building. When this is done, the meter
will be attached to the small or domestic line and a check valve as well as a
three-fourths inch detection meter shall be put on the large line.
   (4)   Sprinklers. There shall be an installation charge for meters on fire
sprinkler systems of $10 per meter, which shall include the first ten sprinkler
heads, but where there are more than ten sprinkler heads on the system, there
shall be an additional $1 charge for each additional ten sprinkler heads.
   (5)   Repair. The city shall maintain and repair all meters when rendered
unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear and shall replace them, if
necessary. However, where replacement, repair or adjustment of any meter is
rendered necessary by the act, neglect, including damage from hot water backup,
or carelessness of the owner or occupant of the premises, any expense caused
the city thereby shall be charged against and collected from the water
consumer.
   (6)   Re-reading. A consumer may, by written request, have his or her meter
re-read, by depositing the amount stated below with the city. In case a test
should show an error of over 5% of the water consumed, the deposit shall be
refunded to the consumer, a correctly registering meter will be installed, and
the bill will be adjusted accordingly if the meter erred in favor of the city.
The adjustment shall not extend back more than one billing period from the date
of the written request. The deposit charges for meter testing are set forth in
the city fee schedule.
   (7)   City property. All water meters shall be and remain the property of
the city.
   (8)   Access. Authorized city employees shall have free access at reasonable
hours of the day to all parts of every building and premises connected with the
water system for reading of meters and inspections. No city employee shall
enter any building or premises without having received permission from the
owner or occupant of the building or premises, unless they have obtained an
administrative search warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction. Refusal
by the owner or occupant to permit the entering of buildings or premises to
read water meters or for inspection shall be grounds for the immediate
discontinuance of water service, and any other city permits, licenses or
services, unless, after notice of the discontinuance, the person appeals the
decision to discontinue to the City Council. No city employee shall enter any
building or premises without having received permission from the owner or
occupant of the building or premises, unless they have obtained an
administrative search warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction. Refusal
by the owner or occupant to permit the entering of buildings or premises to
read water meters or for inspection shall be grounds for the immediate
discontinuance of water service, and any other city permits, licenses or
services, unless, after notice of the discontinuance, the person appeals the
decision to discontinue to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 401.30)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 401.32 WATER METER SETTING.
   All water meters hereafter installed shall be in accordance with the
following rules.
   (1)   The service pipe from the water main to the meter, when the same
enters the building, shall be brought through the floor or bottom course of
concrete block of foundation.
   (2)   The meter shall be located so that the bottom is from 12 inches to 24
inches above the finished floor line. The meter shall be set out not more than
12 inches measured horizontally from the inside line of the basement wall,
unless an alternate method is approved by the plumbing inspector.
   (3)   All meter installations shall have a stop and waste gate valve on the
street side of the meter. In no case shall there be more than 12 inches of pipe
exposed between the point of entrance through the basement floor and the stop
and waste valve. A stop and waste gate valve shall also be installed on the
house side of the meter. All fittings and pipes are to be red, brass or bronze.
Gate valves shall be brass 125 pounds standard.
(Prior Code, § 401.31)
§ 401.33 USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person other than authorized city employees shall operate fire hydrants
or interfere in any way with the water system without first obtaining a permit
to do so from the city as follows.
   (1)   Permit to use a fire hydrant shall be issued for each individual job
or contract and for a minimum of 30 days and for additional 30-day periods as
the city shall determine. The permit shall state the location of the hydrant
and shall be for the use of that hydrant and none other.
   (2)   The user shall make a $100 advance cash deposit to guarantee payment
for water used and to cover breakage and damage to hydrant, which shall be
refunded upon expiration of the permit, less applicable charges for use.
   (3)   The user shall pay a rental charge of $10 for each 30-day period or
fraction thereof, and $0.45 for each 1,000 gallons of water used.
(Prior Code, § 401.32)
§ 401.34 TEMPORARY CONNECTION TO FIRE HYDRANTS.
   An owner of a private water system may make a temporary above ground
connection to a fire hydrant, subject to the time periods, conditions and
payment specified in §
401.30. In addition, the method of connection to the private system shall
conform to all existing requirements of the city, and the type of meter used
shall meet the approval of the plumbing inspector.
(Prior Code, § 401.33)
§ 401.35 TAMPERING.
   Whoever intentionally destroys, damages or tampers with any property of the
water system shall be guilty of a misdemeanor in violation of this code.
(Prior Code, § 401.34)
§ 401.36 UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Council may appoint a utilities superintendent who shall assume and
discharge the responsibilities imposed by this chapter along with any other
duties as may be required or assigned to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 401.35)
§ 401.37 LAWN SPRINKLER/IRRIGATION SYSTEMS.
   All lawn sprinkler/irrigation systems connected to the municipal water
system, shall require a permit for connection and are to be installed in
accordance with the State of Minnesota Plumbing Code (Chapter 4715).
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to promote efficient use of
water for lawn sprinkler/irrigation systems to allow the city's water system
flexibility in meeting peak demands.
   (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following terms
shall have the meanings given to them.
      BACKFLOW PREVENTER. Any approved mechanical or air gap system designed
and installed in order to prevent the accidental backflow of water from one
source to another.
      LAWN SPRINKLER/IRRIGATION SYSTEM. All pumps, lines and sprinkler heads
which are located on private property or within adjacent public right-of-way
that have a sole purpose of irrigating gardens, grass or landscaping.
   (3)   Construction of a lawn sprinkler/irrigation system. The location of
lines and sprinkler heads for a lawn and landscape irrigation system may be
located within private property or the city right-of-way or easement subject to
the following conditions:
      (a)   A permit will be required for all lawn sprinkler/irrigations
systems installed. The permit cost will be established yearly in the annually
adopted city fee schedule.
      (b)   The connection to the water system must be done in conformance with
the Minnesota State Plumbing Code.
      (c)   The low voltage electrical wiring portion of the lawn sprinkler/
irrigation system must be performed by a licensed Technology Systems Contractor
who employs a qualified Power Limited Technician per M.S. § 326.242, as it may
be amended from time to time.
      (d)   An approved back flow prevention device must be installed as a part
of all lawn sprinkler/irrigation systems. The device shall be installed per
manufacturer installation instructions. The type of approved backflow device
must be provided when applying for a permit.
      (e)   All newly installed lawn sprinkler/irrigation systems are required
to have rain sensors installed as part of the system. This is in accordance
with M.S. § 103G.298, as it may be amended form time to time, and federal water
conservation standards.
      (f)   The owner of the lawn sprinkler/irrigation system is responsible
for any maintenance or repair of the lawn and landscape irrigation system.
      (g)   The owner of the lawn sprinkler/irrigation system assumes all
liability and responsibility for damages to the lawn and landscape irrigation
system that is caused by city activities, including but not limited to, snow
removal.
(Ord. 07-08, passed 4-14-2008)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
CHAPTER 402: SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
Section
   
402.01   General operation
   
402.02   Connection with sewer required
   
402.03   Supervision
   
402.04   Permits, licenses, fees, bond and insurance
   
402.05   Standards
   
402.06   Independent systems
   
402.07   Types of wastes prohibited
   
402.08   Sump pump systems required; discharge of surface waters prohibited
   
402.09   Tampering with municipal sewer system prohibited
   
402.10   Certain connections prohibited
   
402.11   Entry upon private property
   
402.12   Repair of public right-of-way and gas lines
   
402.13   Variances
   
402.14   Rates and charges
§ 402.01 GENERAL OPERATION.
   The city municipal sanitary sewer system shall be operated as a public
utility and convenience from which revenues will be derived, subject to the
provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 402.02) (Am. Ord. 14-97, passed 6-23-1997)
§ 402.02 CONNECTION WITH SEWER REQUIRED.
   (1)   Any buildings used for human habitation or for human occupancy,
including all business buildings, unless specifically exempted by the Council
on the grounds that no human beings occupy or use the buildings and no sewage
wastes are generated therein, located on property adjacent to a sewer main, or
in a block through which the system extends, shall be required to petition for
sanitary sewer service and to connect thereto when their present on-site sewage
system fails. The owner of the property shall pay all assessments for sanitary
sewer in accordance with Lino Lakes assessment policies. No permits will be
granted for reconstruction of existing on-site systems when city sanitary sewer
service is available to the property.
   (2)   Agricultural buildings hereafter constructed within the city on
property adjacent to a sewer main or in a block through which the system
extends shall be provided with a connection to the municipal sanitary sewer
system for the disposal of all human wastes.
(Prior Code, § 402.02) (Am. Ord. 14-97, passed 6-23-1997; Am. Ord. 11-19,
passed 12-23-2019)
§ 402.03 SUPERVISION.
   The city plumbing inspector shall supervise all house sewer connections made
to the municipal sanitary sewer system and all excavations for the purpose of
installing or repairing the same and all persons doing or causing the work to
be done shall notify the city of the schedule for the work to allow for
supervision.
(Prior Code, § 402.03)
§ 402.04 PERMITS, LICENSES, FEES, BOND AND INSURANCE.
   (1)   Application.
      (a)   Any person desiring to make connection to the municipal sanitary
sewer system shall apply to the city for a permit for the connection. The
application shall be submitted on blanks furnished by the city and shall be
accompanied by plans, specifications and any other information as is required
by the city to evaluate the application, together with a permit and inspection
fee to be determined in the city fee schedule. All costs and expenses incident
to the installation and connection shall be borne by the owner and the owner
shall indemnify the city for any loss or damage that may, directly or
indirectly, be occasioned by the installation of the sewer connection,
including restoring streets and street surfaces.
(Am. Ord. 10-94, passed 4-11-1994)
      (b)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall commence work of any kind
for which a permit is required under this chapter, without first having
received the necessary permit therefor, shall, when subsequently securing the
permit, be required to pay double the fees provided by this chapter for the
permit and shall be subject to all other applicable penal provisions of this
code.
   (2)   Permits.
      (a)   Permits shall only be issued when the applications show that the
work is to be done by persons, firms or corporations (other than the owner/
occupant of residential property) who have been duly licensed by the city to
engage in the business of sewer installation within the city, who have paid the
required fee and have filed the bonds and insurance certificates required under
this section.
      (b)   No permit shall be issued until the plumbing in the building to be
served is inspected by the Plumbing Inspector and altered, if necessary, to
conform to the Minnesota Plumbing and Building Code, to the extent necessary to
permit a proper and safe connection to the municipal sanitary sewer system.
      (c)   Upon completion of the work, a copy of the permit shall be signed
and dated by the licensed individual or firm making the sewer installation and
delivered to the plumbing inspector at the time he or she makes his or her
final inspection of the work. The plumbing inspector shall sign the permit to
show that the work and material conform to the city regulations. The permit
shall also be filled out showing the kind and size of pipe, the kind of joint
used, the length of house connection, the depth at the street, the depth at the
house, the distance from either side of the house where the connection is made
to the house plumbing, and any other information listed on the permit form or
requested by the city plumbing inspector.
   (3)   Licenses. Before any person, firm or corporation is licensed to engage
in the business of sewer installation within the city, he or she shall make
application to the city for the license, shall pay the following fee, and shall
file with the city the following bond and insurance requirements.
      (a)   The fee for the license shall be established by city resolution and
each license shall terminate on December 31 next after its issuance. Licenses
shall not be transferable.
      (b)   A surety bond in the face amount of $5,000 running to the city,
approved by the Council, conditioned that the city will be saved harmless from
any loss, damage, cost or expense, by reason of any work performed under this
chapter, or by reason of improper or inadequate performance or compliance with
the terms of this chapter by the holder of the license or his or her agent or
employees.
      (c)   A certificate of insurance or copies of public liability and
property damage insurance policies as provided for in the code.
      (d)   The requirement for a license and a surety bond does not apply to
any person licensed by the state as a plumber or journeyman plumber.
   (4)   License revocation. The Council may revoke any license at any time if
the licensee shall violate the provisions of this or any other provision of the
code. No licensee shall allow his or her name to be used by any other person
for the purpose of doing any work within the city, except that this provision
shall not prevent a licensed plumber from employing the services of a licensed
pipe layer or licensed sewer installer. All revocations shall follow the
procedure in §
601.06 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 402.04)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 402.05 STANDARDS.
   Materials, installation and excavation shall be governed by the City
Engineers Association of Minnesota (CEAM) Standard Utility Specifications for
Water Main and Service Line Installation and Sanitary Sewer and Storm Sewer
Installation, Revised 1999 and as may be amended from time to time in the
future, which is hereby adopted by reference. Copies for public review and
purchase shall be kept in the office of the city engineer.
(Prior Code, § 402.05)
§ 402.06 INDEPENDENT SYSTEMS.
   (1)   Separate systems. The drainage and plumbing system of each new
building and of new work installed in an existing building shall be separate
from and independent of that of any other building except where provided in
division (2) of this section, and every building shall have an independent
connection with a public sewer when it is available.
   (2)   Exception. Where one building stands to the rear of another building
on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to
the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the
building drain from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole will be considered as one building drain, where a building drain is
nearer the rear wall of the front building.
(Prior Code, § 402.06)
§ 402.07 TYPES OF WASTES PROHIBITED.
   (1)   Prohibited wastes. Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to discharge any of the following described waters or wastes into the
municipal sanitary sewer system:
      (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (b)   Any water or waste containing more than 100 parts per million by
weight of fat, oil or grease;
      (c)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other inflammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (d)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (e)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, plastic, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous substance
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with
the proper operation of the sewer system;
      (f)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (g)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of the character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle materials
at the sewage treatment plant;
      (h)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance; and
      (i)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the city engineer, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amount or any inflammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors shall not be
required for private dwelling units which discharge only normal wastes
therefrom. The grease and oil interceptors shall be of substantial
construction, water-tight and equipped with easily removable covers which when
bolted in place shall be gas-tight and water-tight. All greases, oil and sand
interceptors shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in
continuously efficient operation at all time.
   (2)   Industrial wastes. It shall be unlawful to discharge into the
municipal sanitary sewer system any industrial wastes unless the prior approval
of the city engineer is obtained. The city engineer shall approve the discharge
of industrial wastes when, in his or her opinion, the proposed wastes will not
be of an unusual amount or character. When in the opinion of the city engineer
the proposed wastes are of an unusual amount or character, the city engineer
may approve the wastes.
(Prior Code, § 402.07)
§ 402.08 SUMP PUMP SYSTEMS REQUIRED; DISCHARGE OF SURFACE WATERS PROHIBITED.
   (1)   Sump pump systems required. Sump pump systems shall be installed in
new residential buildings.
   (2)   Storm water discharges prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any owner,
occupant or user of any premises to direct into or allow any storm water,
surface water, ground water, well water or water from industrial or commercial
air conditioning systems to drain into the sanitary sewer system of the city.
No rain spout or other form of surface drainage and no foundation drainage or
sum pump shall be connected or discharged into any sanitary sewer.
   (3)   Draintile system. A draintile, sump basket, pump, electrical
receptacle and rigid pipe connection to the outside shall be required for any
new residential buildings constructed within the city. The building official
may determine the need for such installation when slab on grade construction
occurs. The system shall be installed as follows:
      (a)   The building shall have a draintle placed around the inside
perimeter of the foundation connected to a sump pit. The sump pit shall be
located at least ten feet away from any inside floor drain.
      (b)   A discharge pipe shall be installed to the outside wall of the
building with rigid pipe (plastic, copper, galvanized or black pipe) three-
fourths-inch inside diameter minimum with a union or other approved coupling
for easy disconnection for repair or replacement. The discharge pipe shall have
a hose bib or three-fourths-inch hose connector at the outside of the house
wall.
      (c)   The electrical receptacle shall be located no greater than five
feet from the sump basket.
      (d)   When the construction consists of hollow masonry units, weep hoses
shall be inserted into every core of each block of the 1st course and placed
into the gravel filled trench in such manner to protect the hoses from blockage
when the concrete floor is poured.
      The provisions of this section are not intended to prevent the use of any
material or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this section,
provided any alternate has been approved and its use authorized by the building
official. The building official may approve any such alternate, provided that
the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the provisions of this
section and that the material, method or work offered is, for the purpose
intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this section. The
building official shall require that sufficient evidence or proof be submitted
to substantiate any claims that may be made regarding its use. The details of
any action granting approval of an alternate shall be recorded and entered in
the files of the department of the building official.
   (4)   Existing house installations. When a draintile system is to be
installed in an existing structure that had no system of surface water drainage
when first constructed, the system shall be installed the same as for new
construction.
§ 402.09 TAMPERING WITH MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage system. No person shall
attach any prohibited or unreported lead or line to that system without having
a permit to so do, nor shall any unreported connection be made on the owner's
premises, inside or outside of the building thereon, which would introduce
waters or substances prohibited or forbidden by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 402.09)
§ 402.10 CERTAIN CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No buildings located on property lying outside the limits of the city shall
be connected to the municipal sanitary sewer system unless express
authorization therefor is obtained from the Council.
(Prior Code, § 402.10)
§ 402.11 ENTRY UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The city engineer and other duly authorized employees of the city, bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall at reasonable times be permitted
to enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in connection with the operation of the
municipal sanitary sewer system. Except in emergency situations, no inspection
shall occur without the permission of the owner. In non-emergency situations,
the engineer and/or superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
city shall obtain an administrative search warrant before entering any property
if the owner refuses to give permission to enter. Refusal to give permission to
enter may be considered to be grounds for the discontinuance of sewer service,
or any other city services or the suspension or revocation of any city licenses
or permits.
(Prior Code, § 402.11)
§ 402.12 REPAIR OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY AND GAS LINES.
   (1)   Final approval. No connection to the municipal sanitary sewer system
shall be finally approved until all streets, pavements, curbs and boulevards or
other public improvements thereon have been restored to their former condition
to the satisfaction of the city engineer.
   (2)   Damage to gas lines. Whenever any license hereunder or any other
person engaged in making a connection to the municipal sanitary sewer system
shall damage the coating on any gas mains or gas lines, the damage shall be
promptly reported by the person causing the damage to the proper utility
company before the gas line or gas main is covered with earth. Failure to make
the report shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 402.12)
§ 402.13 VARIANCES.
   The city plumbing inspector may permit variations from the strict
application of any provision of this chapter if he or she is satisfied that
there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the premises for which
the variance is requested and that the granting of the variation will not
materially affect adversely health, safety or general welfare or public or
private property. Any variation permitted under this provision must be noted on
the permit.
(Prior Code, § 402.13)
§ 402.14 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (1)   Charges. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, all
charges for sewer service within the city shall be established in the city fee
schedule.
   (2)   Added charges. In respect to property which shall be connected with
the sewer system for the discharge and disposal of other residential,
commercial or industrial sewage waste, or any waste unusual in either character
or amount, then in addition to all applicable charges hereunder, Council may
impose a supplemental sewage rate charge as the Council shall determine as
reasonable and warranted in the basis of all relevant factors; however, no
charges may be imposed before ten days written notice to the effected party and
allowing him or her the right to a hearing before the Council on the charge.
   (3)   Sewer availability charge.
      (a)   There is hereby imposed upon all new sanitary sewer connections to
the municipal sanitary sewer system within the city a sanitary sewer
availability charge to reimburse the city for expenses incurred in the past and
to be incurred in the future for making sewage treatment facilities available
in the sum established annually by the Metropolitan Council Environmental
Services.
(Am. Ord. 09-94, passed 6-13-1994)
      (b)   The city shall pay from the sum any sum charged by the Metropolitan
Council Environmental Services (MCES) as a result of the connection.
      (c)   Payment of the sanitary sewer availability charge to the city shall
precede the issuance of a sanitary sewer connection permit, and the sum shall
be paid in addition to any other charges imposed by the city.
   (4)   Sewer availability charge reserve charge.
      (a)   Recitals. As the MCES has determined to reserve unused capacity in
the metropolitan disposal system each year commencing in 1973 for local
government units in which new buildings to be connected to the system and new
connections to the system are commenced during the year; and to allocate the
debt service costs of the unused capacity for the year among the local
government units as affected, and as the city is affected beginning on March 1,
1973; and in order for the city to pay the costs allocated to it each year, it
will be necessary to establish sewer service availability and connection
charges for all buildings to be constructed or connected to the metropolitan
disposal system on or after March 1, 1973.
      (b)   Establishment of charges. For the purpose of paying costs of
reserve capacity so allocated to the city each year by the MCES, there is
established a charge for:
         1.   The availability of treatment works and interceptors comprising
the metropolitan disposal system;
         2.   Connections, direct and indirect, to the metropolitan disposal
system;
         3.   The charge is imposed on each building or structure in the city
and each connection to the metropolitan disposal system directly or through the
city system, inside any sewer service area established by the MCES,
construction of which is commenced on or after March 1, 1973. The charge shall
be payable upon the issuance of a building permit or a connection permit, as
the case may be, but no charge shall be due upon the issuance of a connection
permit if a charge was paid upon issuance of a building permit.
         4.   The charge for each building or structure shall be equal to the
number of units of sewage volume which it will discharge multiplied by the sum
as shall be charged, assessed or established by the MCES at the time of the
issuance of a building permit or a connection permit, as the case may be, for
payment of the costs of reserve capacity to the MCES; and
         5.   In addition thereto, to cover the costs to the city for
inspections, clerical work, contingencies and hook up fees from the building
exterior to the property line, each applicant shall pay a fee as established by
ordinance adopted by the City Council, which sum shall also be paid to the city
at the time of issuance of a building permit or a connection permit, as the
case may be.
      (c)   The administration. The city shall prepare or revise building
permit or sewage connection permit application forms to provide information
necessary for the computation of the number of units assignable to the building
or structure in question and shall collect the applicable charge information
available to the MCES upon request. If upon filing a report covering the permit
with the MCES, the MCES determines that a greater number of units is assignable
to the building or structure in question, any additional amount of cost
allocated to the city as a result shall be paid by the person or company to
whom the permit was granted.
      (d)   Credit. Any monies paid pursuant to this section shall be deducted
from and credited toward the sewer availability charge required in this
division, when the charge required to be later paid thereunder falls due upon
actual connection to the municipal sanitary sewer system within the city.
   (5)   Statements. Statements for sewer rental charges for the preceding
quarterly period shall be mailed to each customer on or before the fifth day of
January, April, July and October of each year. There shall be added to all
statements, not paid by the last of the month following the quarterly period
covered by the statement, a penalty charge of 10% of the unpaid balance.
   (6)   Collection. Any amounts for collection due hereunder for sewer charges
may be collected in an action brought for that purpose in the name of the city,
or the city may certify to the county auditor the amounts due for sewer
charges, including penalty, and $30 administration fee, together with the legal
description of the premises served, and the county auditor shall thereupon
enter the amount for collection with the tax levy on the premises with the
taxes for the next ensuing year.
(Prior Code, § 402.14) (Am. Ord. 12-84, passed 11-26-1984)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
CHAPTER 403: INDIVIDUAL SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS
Section
   
403.01   Purpose, applicability, and authority
   
403.02   General provisions
   
403.03   Standards adopted
   
403.04   Permits
   
403.05   Violations and penalties
§ 403.01 PURPOSE, APPLICABILITY, AND AUTHORITY.
   (1)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to establish standards for
the proper design, installation, location, construction, operation, use and
maintenance of subsurface sewage treatment systems (SSTS) and individual
subsurface sewage treatment systems (ISTS) in order to protect the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   (2)   Applicability. This chapter shall apply to those sites or facilities
that are licensed, permitted, or otherwise regulated by the city. The sewer
provisions of this chapter shall also apply to any premises in the city that
are not served by a sewage treatment system permitted by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency.
   (3)   Authority. This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization and
requirements contained in M.S. § 145A.05, M.S. § 115.55, and Minn. Rules Ch.
7082.
(Ord. 08-13, passed 8-26-2013)
§ 403.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (1)   Treatment required. All sewage generated in unsewered areas shall be
treated and disbursed by an approved SSTS or a system permitted by the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   (2)   Administration. This chapter shall be administered by the City of Lino
Lakes Building Department. The term  DEPARTMENT , where used in this chapter,
shall mean the City of Lino Lakes Building Department.
   (3)   Compliance. No person shall cause or permit the location,
construction, alteration, extension, conversion, operation, or maintenance of a
subsurface sewage treatment system, except in full compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (4)   Conditions. Violation of any condition imposed by the city on a
license, permit, or variance issued under this chapter shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter and subject to the penalty provisions set forth
herein.
   (5)   Site evaluation, system design, construction, inspection, and
servicing. Site evaluation, system design, construction, inspection, and system
servicing shall be performed by Minnesota Pollution Control Agency listed SSTS
businesses or qualified employees of local governments or persons exempt from
licensing in Minn. Rule 7083.0700. For lots platted after January 23, 1996, a
design shall evaluate and locate space for a minimum of two soil treatment
areas.
   (6)   Inspection. No part of an individual sewage treatment system shall be
covered until it has been inspected and approved by the Department. If any part
of the system is covered before being inspected and approved as provided
herein, it shall be uncovered upon the direction of the Department. The
Department shall cause such inspections as are necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter. It shall be the responsibility of the permittee
to notify the Department that the system is ready for inspection. If the
integrity of the system is threatened by adverse weather if left open and the
Department is unable to conduct an inspection, the permittee may, after
receiving written permission from the Department, document compliance with this
chapter by photographic means that show said compliance and submit that
evidence to the Department prior to final approval being sought.
   (7)   Compliance inspection and certificate of compliance required. An SSTS
compliance inspection and a certificate of compliance are required prior to the
issuance of a building permit:
      (a)   For a new or replacement SSTS.
      (b)   When altering an existing structure to add a bedroom.
      (c)   When a parcel having an existing system undergoes development,
subdivision, or split.
   (8)   Imminent public health and safety threat, failing system, and surface
discharge.
      (a)   The owner of an SSTS that poses an imminent threat to public health
and safety shall immediately abate the threat according to instructions by the
Department and be brought into compliance with this chapter in accordance with
a schedule established by the Department, which schedule shall not exceed ten
months.
      (b)   A failing system, including an SSTS that is not protective of
groundwater, shall be brought into compliance within 24 months after receiving
notice from the Department.
      (c)   An SSTS discharging raw or partially treated wastewater to ground
surface or surface water is prohibited unless permitted under the National
Pollution Discharge Elimination System.
   (9)   Septic tank maintenance. The owner of a sewage tank, or tanks, shall
regularly, but not less frequently than every three years, inspect the tank(s)
and measure the accumulations of sludge and scum. If the system is pumped,
measurement is not needed. The owner shall remove and sanitarily dispose of
septage whenever the top of the sludge layer is less than 12 inches below the
bottom of the outlet baffle or transfer hole, or the bottom of the scum layer
is less than three inches above the bottom of the outlet baffle or transfer
hold. Removal of septage shall include complete removal of scum and sludge.
Pumping permits are required prior to pumping of tank(s).
   (10)   Non-complying systems. Existing systems that are non-complying but
are not an imminent health or safety threat, failing, or discharging to surface
may continue in use so long as the use is not changed or expanded. If the use
changes or is expanded, the non-complying elements of the existing system must
be brought into compliance.
   (11)   Non-complying work. New individual sewage treatment system
construction that is non-compliant, or other work on a system that is non-
complying, must be brought into compliance with this chapter in accordance with
a schedule established by the Department, which schedule shall not exceed seven
days unless the Department finds extenuating circumstances.
   (12)   Change in use. A certificate of compliance may be voided if,
subsequent to the issuance of the certificate, the use of the premises or
condition of the system has changed or been altered.
   (13)   Variances—setback reduction. Where conditions prevent the
construction, alteration, and/or repair of an individual sewage treatment
system on an existing developed parcel of real property, the Department may
reduce property line and building setbacks and system sizing requirements
provided said reduction does not endanger or unreasonably infringe on adjacent
properties.
   (14)   Floodplain. An SSTS shall not be located in a floodway or floodplain.
Location within the flood fringe is permitted provided that the design complies
with this chapter and all of the rules and statutes incorporated herein by
reference.
   (15)   Class V injection wells. All owners of a new or replacement SSTS that
are considered to be Class V injection wells, as defined in C.F.R. Title 40,
Part 144, are required by federal law to submit SSTS inventory information to
the Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 08-13, passed 8-26-2013)
§ 403.03 STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   (1)   Minnesota Rules adopted. Minn. Rule Ch. 7080 and Minn. Rule Ch. 7081,
that are in effect on the date of passage of this chapter, relating to
subsurface sewage treatment systems, are hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein.
   (2)   Rules amended. The Rules, adopted in division (1) above, are amended
as follows:
         Compliance inspection - 15% vertical separation reduction. Minn. Rule
7080.1500, Subp. 4D, is amended to allow 15% reduction of vertical separation
(separation distance no less than 30.6 inches) may be determined to be
compliant for existing systems to account for settling and variable
interpretation of soil characteristics.
   (3)   Holding tanks. Holding tanks may be allowed for the following
applications:
      (a)   As replacement to a failing system;
      (b)   As replacement for an SSTS that poses an imminent threat to public
health and safety; or
      (c)   For an existing lot in which an SSTS cannot feasibly be installed
and the Department finds extenuating circumstances.
   (4)   System abandonment. An SSTS or any component thereof that is no longer
intended to be used must be abandoned in accordance with the adopted standards
of this chapter.
(Ord. 08-13, passed 8-26-2013)
§ 403.04 PERMITS.
   (1)   Permit required. No person shall cause or allow the location,
construction, alteration, extension, conversion, modification or pumping of any
SSTS without first obtaining a permit for such work from the Department. No
person shall construct, alter, extend, convert, or modify any structure that is
or will utilize an SSTS without first obtaining a permit.
      (a)   All work performed on an SSTS shall be done by an appropriately
licensed business, qualified employees or persons exempt from licensing. Permit
applications shall be submitted by the person doing the individual SSTS
construction on forms provided by the Department and accompanied by required
site and design data, and permit fees.
      (b)   Permits shall only be issued to the person doing the individual
sewage treatment system construction.
      (c)   Permit applications for a new and replacement SSTS shall include a
management plan for the owner that includes a schedule for septic tank
maintenance.
      (d)   A permit is not required for minor repairs or replacement of
damaged or deteriorated components that do not alter the original function,
change the treatment capacity, change the location of system components, or
otherwise change the original system’s design, layout, or function.
   (2)   Operating permit. An operating permit shall be required of all owners
of new holding tanks, Type IV and V systems, MSTS, and other SSTS that the
Department has determined require operational oversight.
      (a)   Application. Application for an operating permit shall be made on a
form provided by the Department.
      (b)   Holding tanks. The owner of holding tanks installed after the
effective date of this chapter shall provide the Department with a copy of a
contract with a licensed sewage maintenance business for monitoring and removal
of holding tank contents.
(Ord. 08-13, passed 8-26-2013)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 403.05 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (1)   Misdemeanor. Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed upon each day during on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (2)   Civil action/injunctive relief. In the event of a violation or a
threat of violation of this chapter, the Department may institute appropriate
civil or administration actions or proceedings, including actions seeking
damaged, declaratory relief, or injunctive relief to prevent, restrain,
correct, or abate such violations or threatened violations, and the City
Attorney is authorized to institute such action.
(Ord. 08-13, passed 8-26-2013)
CHAPTER 404: STORMWATER UTILITY
Section
   
404.01   Findings
   
404.02   General operation
   
404.03   Definitions
   
404.04   Stormwater utility fees
   
404.05   Credits
   
404.06   Exemptions
   
404.07   Payment of fee
   
404.08   Appeal of fee
   
404.09   Penalty for late payment
   
404.10   Certification of past due fees on taxes
§ 404.01 FINDINGS.
   The City Council recognizes that the control and regulation of stormwater
drainage is necessary to protect the environment and the public health safety
and welfare. The Council hereby finds that:
   (1)   In the exercise of its governmental authority the city has
constructed, operated, and maintained a stormwater system;
   (2)   It is necessary and desirable to provide a method of recovering the
future costs of improving, maintaining, and operating the system by
establishing a program of user charges;
   (3)   In imposing charges, it is necessary to establish a methodology that
undertakes to make them just and equitable to assign responsibility for some or
all of the future costs of operating, maintaining, and improving the system on
the basis of the expected stormwater runoff from the various parcels of land
with the city; and
   (4)   Assigning costs and making charges based upon impervious coverage can
only be accomplished within reasonable and practical limits. The provisions of
this chapter establishes a reasonable and practical methodology from making
such charges.
(Ord. 07-21, passed 8-23-2021)
§ 404.02 GENERAL OPERATION.
   (1)   The city stormwater system shall be operated as a public utility
(hereinafter called the "stormwater utility" or "utility"), pursuant to M.S. §
444.075, from which revenues will be derived subject to the provisions of this
chapter and Minnesota Statutes.
   (2)   The stormwater system consists of lift stations, catch basins and
manholes, collection piping, forcemain, storage tanks and ponds, structural and
non-structural BMP's (Best Management Practices), and associated appurtenances
located within public right-of-way and/or dedicated easements.
   (3)   The stormwater utility shall fund the operation, maintenance, repair,
and replacement of the stormwater system.
   (4)   The stormwater utility shall not be used to fund expansion of the
system to accommodate new development.
   (5)   The city shall, as part of its annual budget process, adopt an
operating budget for the stormwater utility for the next fiscal year. The
operating budget shall be prepared in conformance with the state budget law,
city policy, and generally accepted accounting practices.
(Ord. 07-21, passed 8-23-2021)
§ 404.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). A stormwater practice used to provide water
quality treatment or manage stormwater runoff. Examples include storm ponds,
infiltration basins, rain gardens, etc.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A compacted surface or a surface covered with material
(i.e., gravel, asphalt, concrete, Class 5, etc.) that increases the depth of
runoff compared to natural soils and land cover. Including but not limited to
roads, driveways, parking areas, sidewalks and trails, patios, tennis courts,
basketball courts, swimming pools, building roofs, covered decks, and other
structures.
   STORMWATER UTILITY FEE. The charge developed for each parcel of land
pursuant to this chapter, charged quarterly.
   ANNUAL UTILITY REVENUE. The revenue amount equal to the estimated annual
expenditures for planning and inventories, capital expenditures, personnel and
equipment and operation of the stormwater utility, in accordance with
established city policy.
(Ord. 07-21, passed 8-23-2021)
§ 404.04 STORMWATER UTILITY FEES.
   (1)   Stormwater utility fees shall be established for a period of time as
set by City Council ordinance and as established in the city fee schedule. The
City Administrator shall annually review rates and make recommendations to the
Council for adjustments in the rates and other charges. Such recommendations to
the Council regarding rate adjustment shall be based upon annual report of the
operations of the utility, including an account of all monies or revenue
received and disbursed, together with a working budget estimate of the needs of
the utility.
   (2)   Determination. The stormwater utility fee shall be determined based on
the total impervious surface coverage throughout the city. Exempt land uses
shall be excluded from the computations. The proportion of residential and non-
residential impervious coverages shall be calculated. The total residential fee
and non residential fee is determined using the respective impervious
proportion and the annual utility revenue.
   (3)   Residential fee. The residential fee is charged per parcel to those
parcels with single family residential, multi-family residential, and rural
residential land uses. This includes single family, duplexes, and townhomes.
This does not include multi-family buildings consisting of three or more units
where one or more of the units does not have primary ground floor access to the
outside.
   (4)   Non-residential fee. The non-residential fee is charged per acre of
impervious surface to those parcels with airport, commercial, government
facilities, house of worship, industrial, schools, and utility land uses.
Multi-family buildings consisting of three or more units where one or more of
the units does not have primary ground floor access to the outside, are
included in this grouping.
(Ord. 07-21, passed 8-23-2021)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 404.05 CREDITS.
   The Council may adopt policies, by resolution, for adjustment of the
stormwater utility fees. Information to justify a credit adjustment must be
supplied by the property owner. Such adjustments of fees shall not be
retroactive. Credits will be reviewed by city staff.
(Ord. 07-21, passed 8-23-2021)
 
§ 404.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following land uses are exempt from the stormwater management fee:
   (1)   Public road right-of-way;
   (2)   Lakes;
   (3)   Wetlands;
   (4)   Permanent open space or land covered by a conservation easement;
   (5)   Agricultural properties with no residence;
   (6)   Cemeteries;
   (7)   Vacant land;
   (8)   City and county public parkland; and
   (9)   Other parcels, such as those owned by entities that are MS4
permittees, as determined on a case by case basis as determined by the city.
(Ord. 07-21, passed 8-23-2021)
§ 404.07 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   Each billing for stormwater utility fees not paid when due shall incur a
penalty charge as established in the city fee schedule.
(Ord. 07-21, passed 8-23-2021)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 404.08 APPEAL OF FEE.
   If a property owner or person responsible for paying the stormwater utility
fee believes that a particular assigned fee is incorrect, such a person may
request that the fee be reviewed.
(Ord. 07-21, passed 8-23-2021)
§ 404.09 PENALTY FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   Each billing for stormwater utility fees not paid when due shall incur a
penalty charge of 10% per billing cycle of the amount past due.
(Ord. 07-21, passed 8-23-2021)
§ 404.10 CERTIFICATION OF PAST DUE FEES ON TAXES.
   Each year the City Clerk shall prepare a list of delinquent stormwater
utility fee accounts for certification to the County Auditor. The list shall be
in the form of an assessment roll and include the amount due, accrued penalties
thereon and an administrative fee established by Council resolution, together
with the legal description of the premises served. The City Council shall
annually review the delinquent water service charge assessment roll and adopt
an appropriate resolution directing that the assessment roll be certified to
the County Auditor as a lien against the premises served and directing that the
County Auditor collect the assessment as part of the ensuing year's tax levy.
(Ord. 07-21, passed 8-23-2021)
CHAPTER 405: REGULATION OF DISCHARGES INTO THE STORM SEWER SYSTEM
Section
   
405.01   Purpose
   
405.02   Definitions
   
405.03   Prohibitions
   
405.04   Property maintenance
   
405.05   Deicer storage requirements
   
405.06   NPDES permits compliance
   
405.07   Prohibited discharge, action required
   
405.08   Entry upon private property
   
405.09   Suspension of storm sewer system access
   
405.10   Enforcement
§ 405.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote, preserve and enhance the natural
resources with the city and protect them from adverse effects occasioned by
non-storm water discharges into the storm water system of the city by
regulating discharges that would have an adverse and potentially irreversible
impact on water quality and environmentally sensitive land.
(Ord. 10-10, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 405.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTI-ICING. The application of liquid deicer prior to the onset of a snow
event.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). Erosion and sediment control, water quality,
and permanent storm water management practices that are the most effective and
practicable means of controlling, preventing, and minimizing the degradation of
surface water, including construction-phasing, minimizing the length of time
soil areas are exposed, prohibitions, and other management practices published
by state or designated area-wide planning agencies.
   BULK STORAGE. The storage of any deicing material (liquid or solid used for
deicing during winter conditions that is more than five tons in solid form (or
1,000 gallons in liquid form).
   DEICER. Any substance used to melt snow and ice or used for its anti-icing
effects (i.e. salt, treated salt, and the like).
   DISCHARGE. Adding, introducing, releasing, leaking, spilling, casting,
throwing, emitting any pollutant, or placing any pollutant in a location where
it is likely to pollute waters of the state in the city.
   EROSION. The process by which ground surface is worn away by action of wind,
water, ice, or gravity.
   GROUNDWATER. Water contained below the surface of the earth in the saturated
zone including, without limitation, all waters whether under confined,
unconfined, or perched conditions, in near surface unconsolidated sediment or
regolith, or rock formations deeper underground.
   MPCA.  Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). The system of conveyances
(including sidewalks, roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, man-made-channels, or storm drains) owned and
operated by the city and designed or used for collecting or conveying storm
water, and which is not used for collecting or conveying sewage.
   NPDES. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System; the program for
issuing, modifying, revoking, reissuing, terminating, monitoring, and enforcing
permits under the Clean Water Act (§§ 301, 318, 402 and 405) and 33 C.F.R. §§
1317, 1328, 1342 and 1345 authorizing the discharge of pollutants to waters of
the United States.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, franchise,
association or governmental entity.
   POLLUTANT.  Any substance which, when discharged has potential to or does:
interfere with state designated water uses; obstruct or cause damage to waters
of the state; change water color, odor, or usability as a drinking water source
through causes not attributable to natural stream processes affecting surface
water or subsurface processes affecting groundwater; add an unnatural surface
film on the water; adversely change other chemical, biological, thermal, or
physical conditions, in any surface water or stream channel; degrade the
quality of ground water; or harm human life, aquatic life, or terrestrial plant
and wildlife. POLLUTANT includes, but is not limited to, dredged soil,
construction waste, solid waste, incinerator residue, garbage, wastewater,
wastewater sludge, chemical waste, biological materials, radioactive materials,
rock, sand, dust, industrial waste, sediment, nutrients, toxic substance,
pesticide, herbicide, trace metal, automotive fluid, petroleum-based substance,
and oxygen-demanding material.
   POLLUTE. To discharge pollutants into waters of the state.
   POLLUTION. The direct or indirect distribution of pollutants into waters of
the state.
   PROHIBITED CONNECTION.  Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including any
non-storm water discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water
and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a residential, commercial or
industrial land use to the storm drain system, which has not been documented in
plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement
agency.
   STATE.  The State of Minnesota.
   STATE DESIGNATED WATER USES. Uses specified in state water quality
standards.
   STORM SEWER SYSTEM. A conveyance or system of conveyances that is owned and
operated by the city or other entity and designated or used for collecting or
conveying storm water.
   STORM WATER. Precipitation runoff, storm water runoff, snow melt runoff, and
any other surface runoff and drainage as defined under Minn. Rule 7077.0105,
Subpart 41(b).
   SURFACE WATERS. All waters of the state other than ground waters, which
include ponds, lakes, rivers, streams, tidal and nontidal wetlands, public
ditches, tax ditches, and public drainage systems except those designed and
used to collect, convey, or dispose of sanitary sewage.
   UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE.
      (1)   A non-storm water discharge into the storm water system or a
natural water, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Debris or other materials such as grass clippings, vegetative
materials, tree branches, earth fill, rocks, concrete chunks, metal, other
demolition or construction materials, or structures;
         (b)   The disposal or misuse of chemicals or any other materials that
would degrade the quality of waters within the system, including, but not
limited to chemicals (fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides, and the like) or
petroleum based products (gasoline, oil, fuels, solvents, paints, and the
like);
         (c)   Erosion and sediment originating from a property and deposited
onto city streets, private properties or into the storm water conveyance
system, including those areas not specifically covered under an approved storm
water management plan or storm water permit; and/or
         (d)   Failure to remove sediments transported or tracked onto city
streets by vehicles or construction traffic within 24 hours of it being
deposited on the street.
      (2)   For the purposes of this chapter UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES do not include
the following, unless information is available to indicate otherwise: water
line flushing; landscape irrigation; diverted stream flows; rising ground
water; uncontaminated ground water infiltration; uncontaminated pumped ground
water; discharges from potable water sources; foundation drains; air
conditioning condensate; irrigation water; springs; water from crawl space
pumps; footing drains; lawn watering; individual residential car washing; flows
from riparian habitats and wetlands; de-chlorinated swimming pool discharges
and street wash water.
(Ord. 10-10, passed 9-13-2010; Am. Ord. 02-23, passed 6-12-2023)
§ 405.03 PROHIBITIONS.
   (1)   No person shall throw, deposit, place, leave, maintain, or keep or
permit to be thrown, deposited, placed, left, maintained or kept, any refuse,
rubbish, garbage, or any other discarded or abandoned objects, articles, or
accumulations, in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, storm drain, inlet,
catch basin conduit or drainage structure, business place, or upon any public
or private plot of land in the city, so that the same might be or become a
pollutant, except in containers, recycling bags, or other lawfully established
waste disposal facility.
   (2)   No person shall intentionally dispose of grass, leaves, dirt, or other
landscape debris into a water resource buffer, street, road, alley, catch
basin, culvert, curb, gutter, inlet, ditch, natural watercourse, wetland, flood
control channel, canal, storm drain or any fabricated natural conveyance.
   (3)   No person shall cause any unlawful discharge to enter the municipal
storm water system unless such discharge:
      (a)   Consists of non-storm water that is authorized by an NPDES point
source permit obtained from the MPCA; or
      (b)   Is associated with firefighting activities.
   (4)   No person shall use any unlawful connection to intentionally convey
non-storm water to the city storm water system.
(Ord. 10-10, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 405.04 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE.
   All owners or occupants of property within the city shall comply with the
following good housekeeping requirements:
   (1)   No person shall leave, deposit, discharge, dump, or otherwise expose
any chemical or septic waste in an area where discharge to streets or the storm
drain system may occur. This section shall apply to both actual and potential
discharges.
   (2)   No person shall store objects, such as motor vehicle parts, containing
grease, oil or other hazardous substances, and unsealed receptacles containing
hazardous materials, in areas susceptible to runoff or discharge to a storm
water system.
   (3)   No person shall place any machinery or equipment that is to be
repaired or maintained in areas susceptible to runoff. Said machinery and
equipment shall be placed in a confined area to contain or collect leaks,
spills, or discharges without discharge to the storm water system.
   (4)   Debris and residue shall be removed, as follows:
      (a)   Fuel and chemical residue or other types of potentially harmful
material, such as animal waste, garbage or batteries, which are located in an
area susceptible to runoff, shall be removed as soon as possible and disposed
of in an appropriate manner.
      (b)   Household hazardous waste shall be delivered to an approved
collection site for disposal.
   (5)   Water from swimming pools shall not be discharged into the storm water
system until a minimum of seven days has passed since the addition of chemicals
to the water.
   (6)   Runoff of water from residential property shall be minimized to the
maximum extent practicable. Runoff of water from the washing down of paved
areas in commercial or industrial property is prohibited unless necessary for
health or safety purposes and not in violation of any other provisions of the
city code.
   (7)   Mobile washing companies (carpet cleaning, mobile vehicle washing,
etc.) shall dispose of wastewater to the sanitary sewer. Wastewater shall not
be discharged where drainage to streets or the storm sewer system may occur.
(Ord. 10-10, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 405.05 DEICER STORAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   The following section applies to all indoor and outdoor bulk deicer storage
facilities (temporary and permanent) including salt piles, salt bag storage,
salt/sand piles and other storage of deicing materials on commercial,
institutional, and non-NPDES permitted industrial properties within the city.
   (1)   Indoor operations for the storage of deicing materials must be
provided wherever possible in order to prevent such materials from being
affected by rain, snow and melt water.
   (2)   All salt, salt/sand mix and other deicing materials stored outdoors
must be covered at all times.
      (a)   When not using a permanent roof, a waterproof impermeable, flexible
cover must be placed over all storage piles (to protect against precipitation
and surface water runoff).
      (b)   The cover must prevent runoff and leachate from being generated by
the outdoor storage piles.
      (c)   The cover must be secured to prevent removal by wind or other storm
events. Piles must be formed in a conical shape and covered as necessary to
prevent leaching.
   (3)   Facility siting.
      (a)   Outdoor storage of deicing materials must be located on an
impervious surface.
      (b)   Each facility must be located outside of floodplains and 75 feet
from lakes, rivers, streams, ditches, wetlands and any other areas likely to
absorb runoff.
      (c)   The property must be sloped away from the facility's deicer storage
area.
      (d)   Practices must be implemented in order to reduce exposure (e.g.,
sweeping, diversions, and/or containment) when transferring deicing material.
(Ord. 02-23, passed 6-12-2023)
§ 405.06 NPDES PERMITS COMPLIANCE.
   Any person subject to an industrial activity NPDES storm water discharge
permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of compliance
with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the city prior to
allowing discharges to the storm sewer system. All facilities that have storm
water discharges associated with industrial activity which are, or may be, the
source of an unlawful discharge shall be required to implement, at their
expense, additional structural and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the further
discharge of pollutants to the storm sewer system. Such BMPs shall be part of a
storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) for compliance with requirements
of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. 10-10, passed 9-13-2010; Am. Ord. 02-23, passed 6-12-2023)
§ 405.07 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE, ACTION REQUIRED.
   Not withstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person
responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response
for a facility or operation has information of any known or suspected unlawful
discharge into the storm sewer system or waters of the state, said person shall
take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of
such release. In the event of the release of hazardous materials said person
shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the occurrence via
emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of non-hazardous
materials, said person shall notify the city no later than the next business
day.
(Ord. 10-10, passed 9-13-2010; Am. Ord. 02-23, passed 6-12-2023)
§ 405.08 ENTRY UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (1)   The City Engineer and other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall at reasonable times be
permitted to enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing in connection with the operation
of the municipal storm sewer system. Except in emergency situations, no
inspection shall occur without the permission of the owner.
   (2)   If the city has been refused access to any part of the premises from
which storm water is discharged, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this section, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
designed to verify compliance with this section or any order issued hereunder,
or to protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare of the community,
the provisions of § 101.14 governing administrative search and seizure warrants
shall be followed.
(Ord. 10-10, passed 9-13-2010; Am. Ord. 02-23, passed 6-12-2023)
§ 405.09 SUSPENSION OF STORM SEWER SYSTEM ACCESS.
   (1)   Suspension due to unlawful discharges in emergency situations. The
city may, without prior notice, suspend storm sewer system discharge access to
a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge which presents or may present imminent or substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the storm sewer
system or waters of the state. If the violator fails to comply with a
suspension order issued in an emergency, the city may take such steps as deemed
necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the storm sewer system or waters of
the state, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (2)   Any person discharging to the storm sewer system in violation of this
chapter may have the person's storm sewer system access terminated if such
termination would abate or reduce an unlawful discharge. A person commits an
offense if the person reinstates storm sewer system access to premises
terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the city.
(Ord. 10-10, passed 9-13-2010; Am. Ord. 02-23, passed 6-12-2023)
§ 405.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (1) Notice of violation. Whenever the city finds that a person has violated
a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this section, the city may
order compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such
notice may require without limitation:
      (a)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      (b)   The elimination of unlawful connections or discharges;
      (c)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (d)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (e)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
      (f)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (2)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
are required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise
that should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline the work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a
contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
   (3)   If the invoice received for abatement and/or restoration is not paid
within 30 days, the city may draw the amount of the bill from any financial
guarantees the city may hold or may assess the property from which the offense
originated. After notice and hearing as provided pursuant to M.S. § 429.061,
the City Council may then spread the charges against the property benefitted as
a special assessment under M.S. § 429.101 for certification to the County
Auditor and collection along with the current taxes the following year or in
annual installments not exceeding ten as the Council may determine in each
case.
(Ord. 10-10, passed 9-13-2010; Am. Ord. 02-23, passed 6-12-2023)
500: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
501.   CURFEW FOR MINORS
         
502.   CANNABIS USE IN PUBLIC PLACES
         
503.   ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
         
504.   FIREARMS
         
505.   OPEN BURNING
         
506.   RESERVED
         
507.   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
         
508.   REGULATING THE USE OF BURGLAR AND SAFETY ALARMS, ESTABLISHING USER'S
FEES AND ESTABLISHING A SYSTEM OF ADMINISTRATION
         
509.   ULTIMATE FIGHTING
         
510.   DISORDERLY HOUSES
         
511.   TARGETED PICKETING
CHAPTER 501: CURFEW FOR MINORS
Section
   
501.01   Purposes and findings
   
501.02   Authority
   
501.03   Definitions
   
501.04   Prohibited acts
   
501.05   Exceptions
   
501.06   Enforcement
   
501.07   Penalties
   
501.08   Continuing review and evaluation
   
501.09   Severability
§ 501.01 PURPOSES AND FINDINGS.
   (1)   The City Council of the City of Lino Lakes finds and determines that
there has been an increase in juvenile violence and crime by juveniles in the
city.
   (2)   Juveniles are particularly susceptible by their lack of maturity and
experience to participate in unlawful activities and to be victims of older
perpetrators of crime.
   (3)   Because of the foregoing, special and extenuating circumstances
presently exist within this city that require special regulation of juveniles
within the city in order to protect them and other persons during the nighttime
hours, to aid in crime prevention, to promote parental supervision and
authority over minors, and to decrease juvenile crime rates.
   (4)   In accordance with prevailing community standards, this chapter serves
to regulate the conduct of minors in public places during nighttime hours, to
be effectively and consistently enforced for the protection of juveniles from
each other and from other persons, in public places during nighttime hours, for
the enforcement of parental control of, authority over and responsibility for
their children, for the protection of the general public from nighttime
mischief by juveniles, for the reduction in the incidents of juvenile criminal
activity and protection of juveniles against criminal activity.
(Prior Code, § 501.01) (Ord. 23-95, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 501.02 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted under M.S. §
145A.05, Subd. 7a, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 501.02) (Ord. 23-95, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 501.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ADULT. Any person who is at least 18 years of age and authorized
by a parent or guardian to have custody and control of a juvenile.
   CITY COUNCIL. The Lino Lakes City Council.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life
   JUVENILE. A person under the age of 18 years. The term does not include
persons under 18 who are married or have been legally emancipated.
   PARENT. Any persons having legal custody of a juvenile:
      (a)   As natural, adoptive parent or stepparent;
      (b)   As a legal guardian; or
      (c)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways,
roadways, parks, public recreation, entertainment or civic facilities, school
and the common areas of hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
(Prior Code, § 501.03) (Ord. 23-95, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 501.04 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (1)   It is unlawful for a juvenile under the age of 12 years to be present
in any public place within the City of Lino Lakes:
      (a)   Any time between 9:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday and 5:00 a.m. of the following day; or
      (b)   Any time between 10:00 p.m. on any Friday or Saturday and 5:00 a.m.
the following day.
   (2)   It shall be unlawful for any juvenile age 12 to 14 years to be present
in any public place within the City of Lino Lakes:
      (a)   Any time between 10:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday and 5:00 a.m. of the following day; or
      (b)   Any time between 11:00 p.m. on any Friday or Saturday and 5:00 a.m.
on the following day.
   (3)   It shall be unlawful for any juvenile age 15 to 17 years to be in any
public place within the City of Lino Lakes:
      (a)   Any time between 11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday and 5:00 a.m. of the following day; or
      (b)   Any time between 12:01 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on any Saturday or
Sunday.
   (4)   It shall be unlawful for a parent or authorized adult of a juvenile to
knowingly, or through negligent supervision, habitually permit a juvenile to be
in any public place within the city during the hours prohibited by divisions
(1), (2) and (3) of this section herein, under circumstances not constituting
an exception to this chapter as set forth herein. The term KNOWINGLY includes
knowledge which a parent or authorized adult shall reasonably be expected to
have concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile under the person's care.
   (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating or in charge of any
place of amusement or refreshment which is open to the public to knowingly
permit any juvenile to be in a place during the hours prohibited by divisions
(1), (2) and (3) of this section herein, under circumstances not constituting
an exception to this chapter as set forth herein. The term PERSON OPERATING
shall mean any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
(Prior Code, § 501.04) (Ord. 23-95, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 501.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   (1)   The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the operation of
the curfew:
      (a)   At any time, if a juvenile is accompanied by his or her parent or
an authorized adult;
      (b)   At any time, if a juvenile is involved in, or attempting to remedy,
alleviate or respond to an emergency;
      (c)   If the juvenile is engaged in a lawful employment activity or is
going to or returning home from his or her place of employment;
      (d)   If the juvenile is attending an official school, religious or other
social or recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a city or
the county, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the juvenile;
      (e)   If the juvenile is going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a city or the county, a civic
organization or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
juvenile;
      (f)   If the juvenile is on an errand as directed by his or her parent,
without any detour or stop;
      (g)   If the juvenile is engaged in interstate travel;
      (h)   If the juvenile is on the public right-of-way, boulevard or
sidewalk abutting the juvenile's residence or abutting the neighboring
property, structure or residence;
      (i)   If the juvenile is exercising First Amendment rights protected by
the United States Constitution (or those similar rights protected by Article I
of the Constitution of the State of Minnesota), such as free exercise of
religion, freedom of speech and the rights of assembly; or
      (j)   If the juvenile is homeless or uses a public or semi-public place
as his or her usual place of abode.
   (2)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that:
      (a)   The owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly
notified the Police Department that a juvenile was present on the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave; or
      (b)   The owner, operator or employee reasonably and in good faith relied
upon a juvenile's representations of proof of age. Proof of age may be
established pursuant to M.S. § 340A.503, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from
time to time or other verifiable means, including, but not limited to, school
identification cards and birth certificates.
(Prior Code, § 501.05) (Ord. 23-95, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 501.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (1)   Before taking any enforcement action under this chapter, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in a public
place.
   (2)   The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this
section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and
that no exception set forth in §
501.05 is applicable.
(Prior Code, § 501.06) (Ord. 23-95, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 501.07 PENALTIES.
   (1)   Violation of §
501.04(1), (2) and (3) will be prosecuted pursuant to M.S. Ch. 260B, as it may
be amended from time to time, and will be subject to the penalties therein.
   (2)   Violation of §
501.04(4) or (5) shall be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 501.07) (Ord. 23-95, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 501.08 CONTINUING REVIEW AND EVALUATION.
   (1)   The county attorney shall prepare and submit a report annually to the
City Council evaluating violations of this chapter and the criminal activity by
and against juveniles within the city during the proceeding year.
   (2)   The first report shall be submitted one year after the effective date
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 501.08) (Ord. 23-95, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 501.09 SEVERABILITY.
   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provisions of this
chapter to be invalid, the judgment shall not affect any other provisions of
this chapter not specifically included in the judgment.
(Prior Code, § 501.09) (Ord. 23-95, passed 12-11-1995)
CHAPTER 502: CANNABIS USE IN PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
502.01   Definitions
   
502.02   Prohibited activity
 
   
502.99   Penalty
§ 502.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANNABIS FLOWER, CANNABIS PRODUCTS, LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES, AND HEMP-
DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS. The definitions as enacted in M.S. § 342.01.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any device manufactured, marketed, or sold as e-
cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens, mods, tank systems, or any other
product name or descriptor used for the purposes of delivering a substance
intended for human consumption through inhalation of aerosol or vapor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Property that is generally open to or accessible by the
public, except on those premises licensed by the State of Minnesota to permit
on-site consumption.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property, real and personal, that is owned, managed, or
controlled by the city, including but not limited to: city buildings and all
the land thereon, parking lots, pathways and trails, and city rights-of-way
consisting of both the traveled portion and the abutting boulevard, sidewalks
and trails, and any city personal property, such as motor vehicles, city
equipment, and the like.
(Ord. 06-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 502.02 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   No person shall consume or smoke cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived products in a public place or on public
property.
(Ord. 06-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 502.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 06-23, passed 8-28-2023)
CHAPTER 503: ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Chapter has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 12-25, adopted 7-14-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
Section
   
503.01   Definitions
   
503.02   Enforcement
   
503.03   Right of entry
   
503.04   Impounding animals
   
503.05   Impounding strays
   
503.06   Impounding facility
   
503.07   Redeeming impounded animals
   
503.08   Disposition of impounded animals
   
503.09   License and vaccination requirements
   
503.10   Kennel licenses: private and commercial
   
503.11   Health and maintenance standards
   
503.12   Prohibitions
   
503.13   Confinement in motor vehicle
   
503.14   Rabies; animal bites
   
503.15   Attack by an animal
   
503.16   Dangerous animals
   
503.17   Appeal process
   
503.18   Notification of new address
   
503.19   Dangerous animal requirements
   
503.20   Forfeiture of ownership rights
   
503.21   Farm animals
   
503.22   Wild animals
   
503.23   Penalty
   
503.24   Exemptions
§ 503.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the words and phrases below
are defined for the purpose of this chapter as follows.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
Animals shall be classified as follows:
      (a)   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal commonly accepted as a domesticated
household pet. Unless otherwise defined, these animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds including pigeons, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs,
domesticated rabbits, fish, non-poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting
reptiles or amphibians and other similar animals.
      (b)   FARM ANIMAL. Any animal commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, the
animals shall include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine
family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese),
swine (excluding Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees and other animals
associated with a farm, ranch or stable.
      (c)   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal commonly considered to be naturally wild
and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which is commonly considered to
be inherently dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of people. Unless
otherwise defined, the animals shall include:
         1.   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats;
         2.   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canide)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs;
         3.   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet;
         4.   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon or squirrel, but excluding those members
otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets;
         5.   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators; and
         6.   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   AT LARGE. An animal not under the custody and control of the owner or other
person, either:
      (a)   Confined or restrained on the owner's property by leash, cord,
chain, enclosure or fencing. Restraint by voice command or a remote electronic
training device, on the owner's property, shall be allowed provided that the
animal is under the immediate supervision of its owner or other responsible
person; or
      (b)   Confined within a private vehicle or restrained by a leash not
exceeding six feet in length while off the premises of the owner.
   AUTHORIZED CITY PERSONNEL. The Chief of Police, law enforcement personnel
and others designated by law enforcement personnel to assist in the enforcement
of this chapter.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal that has:
      (a)   Without provocation, caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any
person on public or private property;
      (b)   Without provocation, engaged in any attack on any person under
circumstances which would indicate danger to personal safety;
      (c)   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal; or
      (d)   Bitten one or more persons on two or more occasions.
   HEARING OFFICER. The person designated by the City Council to hear appeals
brought pursuant to this Chapter 503.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any structure or premises on which dogs are kept for the
business of boarding for a fee, for the business of breeding for sale or other
profit-making purpose and not solely for private enjoyment.
   KENNEL, PRIVATE. Any structure or premises on which four dogs, over six
months of age, are kept for private enjoyment and not for monetary gain.
(Am. Ord. 17-08, passed 1-12-2009)
   MALTREATED ANIMAL. An animal that has not been given adequate food, water or
shelter as specified in §
503.11 or that has been subjected to the conduct prohibited by M.S. § 343.21,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   OWNER. A person owning, keeping, harboring or acting as custodian of an
animal. All adult occupants of the property where the animal resides or is kept
are considered an owner or owners.
   PARCEL OF LAND. A contiguous tract or area of land established by plat,
subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, that has one legal description
and parcel identification number recorded with the Anoka County Property
Records Department. Also referred to as a LOT or LOT OF RECORD.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership or corporation.
   PREMISES. A building, structure, shelter or land where an animal is kept or
confined.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely locked pen or
structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to provide
protection for the animal from the elements. A PROPER ENCLOSURE does not
include a porch, patio or any part of a house, garage or other structure that
would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure
in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only
barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow
the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or
kennel shall meet the following minimum specifications:
      (a)   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet;
      (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be one and one-quarter inch or larger steel
pipe buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not
provided, the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground;
      (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The cover
shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls and
shall have no openings in the wire greater than two inches; and
      (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of the
same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL. An animal that:
      (a)   Is maintained in a manner that violates §
503.11;
      (b)   By virtue of number or types of animals maintained, is offensive or
dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare; or
      (c)   Has been the subject of a violation of this chapter more than two
times in a 24-month period.
   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely excited,
stimulated, agitated or disturbed. It shall be a rebuttable presumption that
any attack on a child 14 years of age or younger shall be considered to be
UNPROVOKED unless the child is engaged in an act that could reasonably be
anticipated to cause an animal to attack or bite.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. A place for the treatment, hospitalization, surgery,
care and boarding of animals and birds, under the direction of one or more
licensed veterinarians.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008; Am. Ord. 19-11, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 503.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter will be enforced by the Chief of Police, law
enforcement personnel, law enforcement designees and the assistance of other
personnel when appropriate.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008)
§ 503.03 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Authorized city personnel have the right to enter upon a premises at
reasonable times for the purpose of discharging their duties imposed by this
chapter when there is reasonable belief that a violation of this chapter has
been committed. Authorized city personnel may enter the private dwelling of an
individual for the purposes of seizing animals or otherwise enforcing the
provisions of this chapter with consent, or by first obtaining a search
warrant.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008)
§ 503.04 IMPOUNDING ANIMALS.
   (1)   Authorized city personnel may seize and impound an animal found to be
in violation of this chapter. These personnel may enter onto private property
to seize and impound animals when:
      (a)   They have a reasonable and immediate concern for the animal's
health, safety or welfare;
      (b)   They have a reasonable and immediate concern for the health, safety
or welfare of human beings or other animals as a result of the animal's
continued presence on the property; or
      (c)   They have reasonable cause to believe that a violation of this
chapter has occurred or is occurring and that seizure is necessary to prevent
further violation, but only after a reasonable effort has been made to contact
an occupant of the property.
   (2)   A person must not interfere with authorized city personnel impounding
an animal, nor refuse to surrender an animal to these personnel.
   (3)   Written notice of the seizure shall be left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the animal owner is not possible.
   (4)   The animal owner is responsible for costs for the impounding and
housing of an impounded animal.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008)
§ 503.05 IMPOUNDING STRAYS.
   (1)   Authorized city personnel may seize and impound an animal found at
large on public property or claimed to be a stray by the occupant of the
premises upon which the animal is found.
   (2)   An impounded stray animal displaying a need for medical care may be
taken to a veterinarian for emergency treatment. The owner of the animal is
responsible for payment of expenses incurred as a result of the veterinarian's
treatment.
   (3)   Authorized city personnel shall give notice of an impounded animal to
the owner if known.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008)
§ 503.06 IMPOUNDING FACILITY.
   (1)   The Council will designate a place as an animal impounding facility
for keeping animals that are impounded by the city.
   (2)   Each month the impounding facility will give to the city a written
report showing the animals impounded, the duration of the impoundment and the
method of disposal for each animal.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008)
§ 503.07 REDEEMING IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   The owner of an impounded animal may redeem the animal upon payment of all
impounding and/or boarding fees. The animal owner is responsible for all
assessed fees. No dog may be released unless properly inoculated for rabies and
licensed by the city.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008)
§ 503.08 DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   If an impounded animal is not redeemed within five business days after the
required notice, as specified in §§
503.04 and
503.05, authorized city personnel may give the animal away or direct the
impounding facility to dispose of the animal in a humane manner.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008)
§ 503.09 LICENSE AND VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (1)   License and registration. All dogs within the City of Lino Lakes shall
be licensed except the following:
      (a)   Dogs less than six months of age;
      (b)   Dogs which are brought into the city for appearances in an animal
show or trial; and
      (c)   Dogs being used by law enforcement officers.
   (2)   Limitations. No more than three dogs over six months of age shall be
kept on a property except as provided for in § 503.10.
(Am. Ord. 17-18, passed 1-12-2009)
   (3)   Vaccination required. A person who owns, harbors or keeps a dog over
six months old within the city must have the dog vaccinated by a licensed
veterinarian with an anti-rabies vaccine that is currently effective. The owner
shall be responsible for revaccination of the anti-rabies vaccine upon each
expiration date and return to the city for re-licensing of their dog.
   (4)   Tag required. A person who owns, harbors or keeps a dog over six
months old within the city must securely attach the City of Lino Lakes
identification tag to the dog’s collar so that it can be readily seen. The
identification tag must be worn by the dog at all times when it is off the
owner’s or keeper’s property.
   (5)   Licensing/vaccination procedures.
      (a)   Application. Except as herein provided, within 30 days of acquiring
possession of a dog which has not been licensed by the city, or within 30 days
of moving to the city with a dog which has not previously been licensed by the
city, the owner of the dog shall make application for a dog license. The
application shall be on forms provided by the city. The applicant shall also
provide proof of vaccination and spay or neuter status to the city prior to the
issuance of a license or renewal of a license.
      (b)   License fee. License application must be accompanied by a non-
refundable fee as established by City Council ordinance and as found in the
city fee schedule.
      (c)   Duration of license. All licenses are valid for the same length of
time as the rabies vaccination and must be renewed within 30 days after the
vaccination or a penalty will be applied in the amount set forth by City
Council ordinance.
      (d)   Receipt and tags. Upon completion of the application form, receipt
of the license fee(s) and receipt of proof of vaccination and spay or neuter,
if applicable, the city shall cause a license fee receipt to be issued to the
applicant, along with a metallic tag. The applicant shall cause the tag to be
affixed permanently by metal fastening device to the collar of the licensed dog
in a manner that the tag is easily observed. If a tag is lost, a duplicate may
be issued by the city upon presentation of a receipt showing payment of the
initial license fee and upon payment of an additional fee for each duplicate
tag in the amount set forth by City Council ordinance.
      (e)   Change of address. An applicant who has obtained a dog license
shall notify the city of applicant’s address change within corporate limits of
the city within 30 days of any address change.
      (f)   Counterfeit certificate. A vaccination certificate is valid only
for the dog and owner to which it was issued. A person must not use a rabies
vaccination certificate for a different dog than the one for which it was
issued.
      (g)   Counterfeit tags. No person shall counterfeit, attempt to
counterfeit or attach any counterfeit tag to any dog in the city.
      (h)   Transfer of tags. No person shall transfer a dog tag from one dog
to another.
      (i)   Change of ownership. If there is a change in ownership of the dog
during the duration of the license, the new owner may have a current license
changed to their name upon payment of an ownership transfer fee or may secure a
new license. The ownership transfer fee shall be $1.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008)
§ 503.10 KENNEL LICENSES: PRIVATE AND COMMERCIAL.
   (1)   General. Any person who owns, keeps or allows the keeping of more than
three dogs over six months of age on any parcel of land must first acquire a
kennel license from the city. A person who owns or operates a commercial kennel
or a private kennel must renew the license annually and comply with applicable
requirements herein.
      (a)   An application for a private or commercial kennel license must be
submitted to the Police Department accompanied by the fee established by City
Council ordinance.
      (b)   A kennel license may be issued after an inspection reveals that
adequate safeguards are present to protect the surrounding neighborhood from
nuisances and to ensure compliance with this chapter as well as
Chapter 1007. A license may not be issued if the location does not comply with
the applicable health and maintenance standards set forth below. The license
may include conditions that authorized city personnel deem reasonably necessary
to protect public health and safety and to protect people in neighboring
property from unsanitary conditions, unreasonable noise and odors and other
unreasonable annoyances. The license or permit may be reasonably modified by
authorized city personnel if necessary to respond to changed circumstances. The
modification will be effective ten days after the mailing of written notice by
certified mail to the holder.
      (c)   Each dog over six months of age is required to have an individual
dog license obtained by the city.
      (d)   A kennel license will be issued for a maximum of one year and will
expire on May 31 of each year. A license may be revoked because of a violation
of this chapter, or another relevant law, ordinance or regulation.
   (2)   Private kennel. A minimum of one acre of land is required to obtain a
private kennel license in any zoning district. Every kennel shall be enclosed
or fenced in a manner as to prevent the running at large or escape of animals
confined therein. A private kennel license shall be limited to a maximum of
four dogs.
   (3)    Commercial kennel. Commercial kennels shall also be subject to the
provisions of
Chapter 1007.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 503.11 HEALTH AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (1)   All animals - health standards. The owner of an animal kept in the
city must comply with the following standards.
      (a)   An animal kept outdoors or in an unheated enclosure must be
provided with adequate shelter and bedding to protect it from the sun, rain,
snow and temperatures below 50°F.
      (b)   The shelter must include a moisture proof and windproof structure
of suitable size to allow the animal to stand in an upright position and to lie
down stretched out so that no part of its body need touch the sides of the
structure. The structure must be made of durable material sufficient to allow
retention of body heat with a solid floor raised at least two inches from the
ground and an entrance covered by a flexible windproof material or self-closing
swinging door. The structure must be provided with sufficient quantity of
suitable bedding material consisting of hay, straw, cedar shavings, blankets or
the equivalent to provide insulation and protection against cold and dampness
and to promote retention of body heat. The structure must be structurally sound
and maintained in good repair. The structure shall meet the accessory building
requirements as set forth in
Chapter 1007.
      (c)   In lieu of the requirements of divisions (1)(a) and (1)(b), an
animal may be provided with access to a barn with a sufficient quantity of
loose hay or bedding and protection against cold and dampness.
      (d)   If an animal is confined by a chain, the chain must be so attached
that it cannot become entangled with the chains of other animals or other
objects. A chain must be of a size adequate to restrain the animal involved and
must be attached to the animal by means of a well fitted collar. The collar
must be large enough to allow free breathing but small enough to avoid being
easily pulled over the animal's head. A chain must be at least three times the
length of the animal as measured from the tip of his or her nose to the base of
his or her tail.
      (e)   A female dog in season must be confined indoors or in a secure
enclosure so that she will not be in contact, except for intentional breeding
purposes, with another dog or create a nuisance by attracting other animals who
engage in continued barking, yelping or howling.
      (f)   An animal must be provided with sufficient food and water daily to
meet adequate nutritional requirements.
      (g)   No person shall beat, torment, tease or otherwise abuse an animal,
or permit an animal to fight.
      (h)   The owner of any animal within city limits will provide veterinary
care when needed to prevent suffering of any sick or injured animal.
   (2)   All animals - maintenance standards. An owner of an animal kept in the
city must comply with the standards below. Before commencing an action to
enforce compliance with these standards, enforcement personnel must give an
owner notice of a violation and a reasonable opportunity to comply.
      (a)   An owner must maintain an animal and the area where it is kept so
that no odor that offends the senses of a reasonable person is detected, for
more than one day, off the property where the animal is kept.
      (b)   An owner must maintain the property where the animal is kept so
that there is no erosion and no drainage of water contaminated by the animal,
onto adjacent properties or into wetlands.
      (c)   The owner must manage the feces and other bodily wastes from the
animal in a timely and sanitary manner that prevents health risks and prevents
odors that are prohibited under division (2)(a) above.
   (3)   Commercial kennels and veterinary hospitals. In addition to the
standards established under divisions (1) and (2) above, commercial kennels and
veterinary hospitals must comply with the following standards.
      (a)   Housing facilities must be structurally sound and maintained in
good repair. Indoor housing facilities must be adequately ventilated and have
ample light, either natural or artificial.
      (b)   An enclosure must be of sufficient size to allow each animal to
turn around fully and to stand, sit and lie in a comfortable normal position.
The floors of the enclosure must be constructed so as to prevent injury to the
animal's legs and feet.
      (c)   The temperature for indoor housing facilities must not be allowed
to fall below 50°F for dogs not accustomed to lower temperatures.
      (d)   Disposal facilities must be provided to minimize vermin,
infestation, odors and disease hazards.
      (e)   Adequate storage and refrigeration must be provided to protect food
supplies against contamination and deterioration.
      (f)   The premises, cages, enclosures and housing facilities must be
clean and disinfected as often as is necessary to maintain clean and sanitary
conditions at all times.
      (g)   Animals must be fed at least once a day with clean, wholesome food,
sufficient to meet the normal nutritional requirements for the animal's age,
size and condition.
      (h)   Clean potable water must be made available to all animals at least
twice daily for periods of not less than one hour.
      (i)   Feeding and water receptacles must be kept clean and sanitary at
all times.
      (j)   Animals housed in the same primary enclosure must be maintained in
compatible groups. Non-adult animals must not be housed in the same primary
enclosure with adult animals other than their mothers.
      (k)   An animal exhibiting a vicious disposition must be housed
separately.
      (l)   Females in season must not be confined in the same enclosure with
males except for breeding purposes. Animals used for breeding must be of
compatible size and only one male and one female may be mated at one time in a
single enclosure.
      (m)   Animals affected with clinical evidence of infections, contagious
or communicable disease must be separated from other animals in a manner to
minimize the chance of further infection. An effective program for the control
of insects, ecto parasites and other pests must be established and maintained.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008)
§ 503.12 PROHIBITIONS.
   (1)   An owner must not cause or permit his or her animal to run at large
within the city limits. This restriction does not apply to:
      (a)   Dogs that have been specially trained and certified to perform
tasks to assist people, such as handicapped assistance, police canine duties or
search and rescue;
      (b)   Pigeons that have been released for limited periods necessary for
exercise, training or competition provided it is not within 12 hours following
a feeding; or
      (c)   Dogs that are engaged in a lawful hunt while under the control of a
licensed hunter through voice command.
   (2)   An owner must not permit any animal to be on park property, city
trails, public property or the property of another without having in the
owner's immediate possession a device for the immediate removal of feces
material deposited by the animal as well as a container for the transport of
the material to an appropriate disposal receptacle.
   (3)   A person must not abandon an animal within the city.
   (4)   A person must not keep, own, harbor or otherwise possess a public
nuisance animal, as defined in §
503.01.
   (5)   A person must not allow an animal to create a habitual disturbance.
Habitual disturbance shall be defined as howling, yelping, barking, crowing or
other kinds of noise for repeated intervals of at least three minutes with less
than one minute of interruption that is audible off of the owners' premises.
   (6)   A person must not permit an animal under his or her care, custody or
control to damage another person's lawn, garden or other property.
   (7)   A person must not injure, harass or interfere with a police canine in
the lawful performance of its duties, or attempt, permit or cause the same.
   (8)   An owner of an animal must not fail to restrain the animal from
inflicting or attempting to inflict bodily injury on a person at any place or
on a domestic animal off the owner’s property.
   (9)   A person, except police officers in the lawful performance of their
duties using a police canine, must not cause or encourage an animal to engage
in unprovoked attacks upon human beings or domestic animals.
   (10)   A person must not own, possess, harbor or train an animal for the
purpose of fighting with other animals.
   (11)   It is unlawful for an owner to sell or cause to be sold any animal
without first providing the purchaser with written certification as to the
origin of the animal.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008; Am. Ord. 19-11, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 503.13 CONFINEMENT IN MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (1)   A person must not cause or allow an animal to be placed or confined in
a motor vehicle without adequate ventilation or when the atmospheric
temperature, humidity and sun rays can be reasonably expected to cause
suffering, disability or death. Evidence that the animal is suffering from heat
stress is prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
   (2)   This section does not prohibit the transportation of horses, cattle,
sheep, poultry or other agricultural livestock in trailers or other vehicles
designed and constructed for that purpose.
   (3)   Authorized city personnel who find an animal in a motor vehicle in
violation of this section may break and enter into the vehicle if necessary to
remove the animal. Neither the personnel nor the city will be liable for
vehicle damage that results. An animal removed must be taken immediately to the
animal impounding facility to be evaluated by a licensed veterinarian. The
personnel must leave within the vehicle a written notice giving their name and
position and the address where the animal may be redeemed. The owner of the
animal is responsible for any applicable fees and all medical and housing
expenses incurred.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 503.14 RABIES; ANIMAL BITES.
   (1)   A dog or animal displaying symptoms of being rabid may be seized at
any place or time and will be confined in the city impounding facility at the
expense of the owner, until found to be free from rabies.
   (2)   If a dog or other animal appears to be diseased, vicious, dangerous,
rabid or has been exposed to rabies, and the dog or other animal cannot be
impounded without serious risk of personal injury, the dog or other animal may
be killed, if reasonably necessary for the safety of a person or persons.
   (3)   When a dog or other animal has bitten a person and the skin has been
broken or the services of a doctor are required, the owner or custodian of the
biting animal and the person bitten or his or her parent or guardian must
report the incident to the Lino Lakes Police Department within 24 hours of the
bite. The dog or other animal must be confined for a period of not less than
ten days in a veterinary hospital or on the owner's premises, as determined by
the authorized city personnel. These personnel may refuse to permit confinement
on the owner's premises if the animal has previously been found repeatedly at
large or if the animal does not have a currently effective rabies inoculation.
If confinement on the owner's premises is permitted, the animal may not be
allowed off the premises or in contact with people or other animals during the
confinement period, except for medical purposes. If the owner fails to comply
with these restrictions, authorized city personnel may enter onto the property,
seize the animal and remove it to a veterinary hospital. The owner is
responsible for all costs of confinement incurred under this section. As a
condition of releasing a confined animal, authorized city personnel may require
that the animal's owner take the animal for an examination by a veterinarian
and may require the owner to follow any recommendations from the veterinarian
regarding the animal's training or behavior. The authorized personnel must
notify the owner of these requirements in writing. Failure to comply with a
requirement is a violation of this code, punishable as a misdemeanor and/or as
a civil violation.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008)
§ 503.15 ATTACK BY AN ANIMAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person’s animal to inflict or attempt to
inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal whether or not the owner is
present. This section shall not apply to an attack by a dog under the control
of an on-duty law enforcement officer or to an attack upon an uninvited
intruder who has entered the owner’s home with criminal intent.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008; Am. Ord. 19-11, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see
§
503.23
§ 503.16 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (1)   Designation as dangerous animal. The animal control officer shall have
the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence of the following that the animal meets any of the criteria set forth
in the definition of DANGEROUS ANIMAL in §
503.01.
   (2)   Procedure. The animal control officer, after having determined that an
animal is dangerous, shall proceed in the following manner:
      (a)   Order the animal seized and kept at an animal control facility at
owner’s expense. The owner shall immediately make the animal available for
seizure, and failure to do so shall be a misdemeanor.
      (b)   The animal control officer shall then determine whether to:
         1.   Order the animal destroyed; or
         2.   Impose the conditions set forth in §
503.20. If conditions are imposed in lieu of destruction, the animal shall
remain confined at an animal control facility until the owner demonstrates to
the animal control officer that all conditions have been fulfilled except that
set forth in §
503.20(1)(d).
      (c)   The animal control officer shall cause one owner of the animal to
be notified in writing or in person that the animal has been determined to be
dangerous and that the animal is to be destroyed or that the owner must comply
with the conditions set forth in §
503.20. The owner shall be notified as to dates, times, places and parties
bitten that form the basis for the determination and shall be given 14 days to
appeal the determination by requesting a hearing before the hearing officer for
a review of the determination.
         1.   If no appeal is filed, the orders issued will stand.
         2.   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the hearing
officer, who shall set a date for hearing not more than three weeks after
demand for the hearing. Pending the hearing, the animal shall remain at an
animal control facility. A fee, as established by the City Council, shall be
posted by the owner to cover the administrative costs of scheduling the
hearing.
         3.   The records of animal control or the city shall be admissible for
consideration by the hearing officer without further foundation.
         4.   After considering all evidence, the hearing officer shall make an
order rejecting, upholding or amending the determination. The order must be
issued within ten days of the hearing and shall be delivered to the owner in
person or by registered mail. If the declaration that the animal is dangerous
is upheld by the hearing officer, the actual expense of the hearing, including
attorney’s fees, up to a maximum of $1,000 will be the responsibility of the
animal’s owner. If the animal is ordered into custody for destruction, the
owner shall immediately make the animal available to the animal control
officer.
   (3)   Harboring a dangerous animal. No person shall harbor an animal after
it has been found to be dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.
   (4)   Stopping an attack. If any police officer or animal control officer is
witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the officer
may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the attack to an
end and prevent further injury to the victim.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008; Am. Ord. 19-11, passed 10-10-2011)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 503.17 APPEAL PROCESS.
   An Order by a hearing officer may be appealed by writ of certiorari to the
Court of Appeals.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 503.18 NOTIFICATION OF NEW ADDRESS.
   The owner of an animal which has been identified as dangerous must notify
the animal control officer in writing if the animal is to be relocated from its
current address or given or sold to another person. The notification must be
given in writing at least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of
ownership. The notification must include the current owner’s name and address,
the relocation address and the name of the new owner, if any.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 503.19 DANGEROUS ANIMAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (1)   Requirements. If the hearing officer does not order the destruction of
an animal that has been declared dangerous, the hearing officer may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
      (a)   The owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the dangerous
animal as defined in §
503.01;
      (b)   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly visible
warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that there is a
dangerous animal on the property, as specified in M.S. § 347.51, as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (c)   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance in
the minimum amount of $300,000. The owner shall have 15 business days from the
date of the request to show proof of insurance, except that if the animal is
impounded, proof of insurance must be demonstrated prior to the animal’s
release;
      (d)   If the animal is a dog and is outside the proper enclosure, the dog
must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to exceed
six feet in length) and under the physical restraint of a person 16 years of
age or older. The muzzle must be of the design as to prevent the dog from
biting any person or animal, but will not cause injury to the dog or interfere
with its vision or respiration;
      (e)   If the animal is a dog, it must have an easily identifiable,
standardized tag identifying the dog as dangerous affixed to its collar at all
times as specified in M.S. § 347.51, as it may be amended from time to time;
and
      (f)   If the animal is a dog, the dog must be licensed and up to date on
rabies vaccination. If the animal is a cat or ferret, it must be up to date
with rabies vaccination.
   (2)   Failure to comply with conditions.
      (a)   If an owner of an animal that has been declared dangerous fails to
comply with any conditions, the animal must be seized. Notice shall be provided
to the owner of the basis for the seizure and the right to request a hearing
before the hearing officer to determine whether conditions were violated. A
request for hearing must be made within 14 days of the seizure, and a fee, as
established by the City Council, shall be posted by the owner to cover
administrative costs.
      (b)   If the owner fails to request a hearing within 14 days, the animal
control officer may order the animal destroyed in a proper and humane manner
and the owner shall pay the costs of confining and destroying the animal.
      (c)   If a hearing is requested, the hearing shall be held before a
hearing officer not more than three weeks after demand for a hearing was
received. The records of animal control and the City shall be admissible for
consideration by the hearing officer without further foundation. After
considering all evidence, the hearing officer shall issue a decision within ten
days of the hearing and the order shall be delivered to the owner in person or
by registered mail.
         1.   If the owner is found to have violated the conditions, the
hearing officer may order the animal destroyed in a property and humane manner
and the owner shall pay the costs of confining and destroying the animal. In
addition, the owner shall pay the costs of the hearing, if any, including
attorney’s fees, up to a maximum of $1,000.
         2.   If the owner is found not to have violated the conditions, the
owner may reclaim the animal after paving the costs of confining the animal. An
animal not reclaimed within 14 days of the owner’s receipt of the decision may
be destroyed and the owner shall pay all costs of confinement.
(Ord. 19-11, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 503.20 FORFEITURE OF OWNERSHIP RIGHTS.
   (1)   (a)   The ownership rights of a person owning the following types of
animals may be forfeited to the city pursuant to the procedure in this section:
         1.   A public nuisance animal;
         2.   A wild animal; and
         3.   A maltreated animal.
      (b)   In addition, the ownership rights of other animals owned by the
same owner may be forfeited if he or she has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to properly care for or control the animal in order to prevent it
from becoming a public nuisance animal or a maltreated animal.
   (2)   Authorized city personnel must notify the owner or apparent owner of
the animal sought to be forfeited that the city intends to forfeit his or her
ownership rights. The notice must be served on the owner personally or by
registered mail. The notice must be in writing and state the reasons why
forfeiture is sought, including a summary of applicable incidents.
   (3)   The owner shall be given 14 days from the date of the notice to appeal
the forfeiture decision by requesting a hearing before hearing officer for a
review of this determination.
      (a)   If no appeal is filed, the forfeiture decision will stand.
      (b)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
forfeiture of his or her ownership rights, the hearing shall be held before the
hearing officer, which shall set a date for hearing not more than three weeks
after demand for the hearing. The records of the animal control or City Clerk’s
office shall be admissible for consideration by the animal control officer
without further foundation. After considering all evidence, the hearing officer
shall make an order as he or she deems proper.
   (4)   If the animal is deemed forfeited, the owner must immediately give the
animal to authorized city personnel, and a failure or refusal to do so is a
misdemeanor. Authorized city personnel may use reasonable force and go onto
private property to take the animal into custody.
   (5)   Authorized city personnel will determine on a case by case basis
whether forfeited animals may be destroyed or given to new owners who will
adequately care for and control the animal.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008; Am. Ord. 19-11, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 503.21 FARM ANIMALS.
   (1)   In addition to the provisions of this chapter, the keeping of farm
animals or limited livestock raising may be permitted in rural zoning districts
according to the regulations of
Chapter 1007.
   (2)   An exception shall be made to this section for those animals brought
into the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific
research laboratory or a licensed show or exhibition.
   (3)   The keeping of farm animals legally existing at the adoption of this
chapter in residential zoning districts may continue to exist as to type and
number of animals with the following provisions:
      (a)   The current use shall not be expanded;
      (b)   The current use shall cease if discontinued for more than a period
of one year; and
      (c)   A violation of any section of this chapter shall cease the current
use.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008; Am. Ord. 19-11, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 503.22 WILD ANIMALS.
   It shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor or offer for
sale, any wild animal as defined in §
503.01 within the city limits. Any owner of such an animal at the time of
adoption of this chapter shall have 30 days in which to remove the animal from
the city after which time the city may impound the animal as provided for in
this section. An exception shall be made to this prohibition for animals
specifically trained for and actually providing assistance to the handicapped
or disabled, and for those animals brought into the city as part of an
operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research laboratory or a
licensed show or exhibition.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008; Am. Ord. 19-11, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 503.23 PENALTY.
   A violation of any section of Chapter 503 is a misdemeanor. Each day on
which a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008; Am. Ord. 19-11, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 503.24 EXEMPTIONS.
   (1)   Exemptions. Animals used for law enforcement and fire rescue purposes
in their official capacities are exempt from this chapter.
   (2)   Effective date. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from
and after 30 days following its passage and publication, in accordance with §
3.09 of the City Charter.
(Ord. 03-08, passed 5-27-2008; Am. Ord. 19-11, passed 10-10-2011)
CHAPTER 504: FIREARMS
Section
   
504.01   Definitions
   
504.02   Discharge prohibited
   
504.03   Single ball ammunition
   
504.04   Permitted uses
§ 504.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOW AND ARROW. Pointed tip arrow and bow.
   FIREARMS. For the purposes of this chapter, shall mean rifles, shotguns and
handguns.
   HANDGUN. A hand-held weapon discharging a single shot or pellet at a time.
   NON-FIREARM. A crossbow, a bow and arrow, pellet gun, BB gun and slingshots,
including wrist rockets.
   RIFLE. A shoulder weapon with a rifle bore barrel and discharging a single
shot or pellet at a time.
   SHOTGUN. A shoulder weapon with a smooth bored barrel or barrels and
normally discharging more than one pellet at a time, except when using a single
slug.
   WRITTEN CONSENT. A written record of consent to hunt upon a landowner's
property. The consent shall be signed by the owner and contain the following
information:
      (a)   Name, address and phone number of the landowner;
      (b)   Name, address, phone number and date of birth of the hunter;
      (c)   Description of the land upon which the hunter has consent to hunt
and the date that the consent begins and ends; and
      (d)   Hunters must have on their person a copy of the written consent
with the above information and picture identification.
(Prior Code, § 504.01) (Am. Ord. 2-84, passed 7-23-1984; Am. Ord. 09-95, passed
8-28-1995)
§ 504.02 DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall shoot, fire-off, discharge or explode any firearm or non-
firearm upon or onto any of the following:
   (1)   Any road, street, avenue, sidewalk or other public place in the city;
   (2)   Lands and waters lying southerly of the center line of Lilac Street
which are westerly of the center line of Lake Drive (Anoka County Road 23)
extending along Hodgson Road (U.S. Highway No. 49) and North of Ash Street
(County Road J) as the same are now laid out and traveled; this restriction
applies only to firearms discharge and does not restrict bow and arrow
(archery) non-firearm deer hunting within this defined area;
   (3)   Any city or county park or other city owned lands unless otherwise
provided by this chapter or county ordinance;
   (4)   Any lands within the city not owned by the person so using, unless the
person doing so has on his or her person the written consent of the owner of
the lands;
   (5)   Within 750 feet of any school site (includes adjoining school district
property), residences or buildings upon property not owned by the person so
shooting, firing off, discharging or otherwise exploding any firearm or non-
firearm without written consent of the owner. In no event shall the person
discharge a shotgun where the projectile or pellets leave the premises upon
which the person is authorized to hunt onto some other premises; or
   (6)   A private landowner or person with written consent from the landowner
may use a bow and pointed-tip arrow, provided that no arrow used shall pass
within 500 feet of any school site (includes adjoining school district
property), building on adjoining property or occupied residence, without the
consent of that landowner, nor in any event create a nuisance or danger to the
person.
(Prior Code, § 504.02) (Am. Ord. 2-84, passed 7-23-1984; Am. Ord. 09-95, passed
8-28-1995; Am. Ord. 10-13, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 504.03 SINGLE BALL AMMUNITION.
   (1)   Prohibition. No person shall shoot, fire-off, discharge, explode or
hunt with any rifle, shotgun when using a single slug or handgun, within the
city except upon a licensed shooting range.
   (2)   Evidence. The following shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
violation of §
504.02(2) and division (1) of this section: the carrying of single ball
ammunition on the person while carrying a rifle, shotgun or handgun, openly or
uncased, loaded or unloaded, and which firearm is capable of discharging a
single ball ammunition so being carried.
   (3)   Exception. The slaughtering of domestic animals with a single ball
ammunition.
(Prior Code, § 504.03) (Am. Ord. 2-84, passed 7-23-1984)
§ 504.04 PERMITTED USES.
   Sections
504.01 through
504.03 shall not prohibit the use of firearms by duly authorized police or law
enforcement officers or by persons engaged in the lawful defense of person,
persons or property.
(Prior Code, § 504.04)
CHAPTER 505: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
505.01   Purpose
   
505.02   Definitions
   
505.03   Prohibited materials
   
505.04   Statutes adopted by reference
   
505.05   Open burning permits
   
505.06   Burning ban or air quality alert
   
505.07   Violation
§ 505.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish permitted categories of open
burning events within the city and provide for a permitting process for open
burning, except when the open burning is defined as a recreational fire, as
defined in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 505.01) (Ord. 11-00, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 505.02 DEFINITIONS. 
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Public Safety Director.
   FIRE MARSHAL and ASSISTANT FIRE MARSHALS. The Public Safety Director or his/
her designee, who is acting in good faith to enforce the Minnesota State Fire
Code and local ordinances.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or
chimney, except a recreational fire as defined herein.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fluid no more than three
feet in height, three feet in diameter and contained within a non-combustible
border of a recreational fire site using dry, clean wood; producing little
detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the property line; conducted with an
adult tending the fire at all times; for recreational, ceremonial, food
preparation or social purposes; extinguished completely before quitting the
occasion; and respecting weather conditions, neighbors, burning bans, and air
quality so that nuisance, health or safety hazards will not be created. Mobile
cooking devices such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers
and propane gas devices are not defined as recreational fires. RECREATIONAL
FIRES can only burn between 11:00 a.m. and 3:00 a.m. Monday through Sunday, and
no more than one RECREATIONAL FIRE is allowed on any property at one time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than three foot diameter circle
(measured from the inside of the fire ring or border completely surrounded by
non-combustible and non-smoke or odor-producing material either of natural
rock, cement, brick, tile or blocks or ferrous metal only and which area is
depressed below ground, on the ground or on a raised bed). Included are
permanent outdoor woodburning fireplaces. Burning barrels are not a
RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE as defined herein. RECREATIONAL FIRE SITES shall not be
located closer than 25 feet to any structure or urban wetland interface.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated and unpainted kindling, branches or cardboard,
or charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as
STARTER FUELS and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean
gas-burning devices causing minimal pollution may be used to start an open
burn.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel such as twigs, branches, limbs "presto logs,"
charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. WOOD does not include wood
that is green, with leaves or needles, rotten, wet oil soaked or treated with
preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for recreational fires when cut into
three foot lengths.
(Prior Code, § 505.02) (Ord. 11-00, passed 8-14-2000; Am. Ord. 01-16, passed 6-
13-2016)
§ 505.03 PROHIBITED MATERIALS. 
   No person shall conduct, cause or permit any of the following material:
   (1)   Oils, petro fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials or
other materials which produce excessive or noxious smoke such as tires,
railroad ties, treated, painted or glued wood composite shingles, tar paper,
insulation, composition board, sheetrock, wiring, paint or paint filters;
   (2)   Hazardous waste or salvage operations or open burning of solid waste
generated from an industrial or manufacturing process or from a service or
commercial establishment or building material generated from demolition or
commercial or institutional structures;
   (3)   Discarded material resulting from the handling, processing, storage,
preparation, serving or consumption of food; or
   (4)   Leaves or grass clippings.
(Prior Code, § 505.03) (Ord. 11-00, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 505.04 STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   M.S. §§ 88.16 through 88.22, as they may be amended from time to time, are
incorporated by reference in this chapter as if fully set forth herein. In the
event of any inconsistency between this chapter and the sections of Minnesota
Statutes, the provision that places the greater restrictions or the higher
standard shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 505.04) (Ord. 11-00, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 505.05 OPEN BURNING PERMITS.
   (1)   Permits required. No person shall start or allow any open burning
anywhere within the city without first having obtained a permit, except that a
permit is not required for any fire which is a recreational fire, as defined in
§
505.02.
   (2)   Purposes allowed for open burning. Open burn permits may be issued
only for the following purposes:
      (a)   Elimination of fire or health hazard that cannot be abated by other
practical means;
      (b)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction;
      (c)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights-of-
way where chipping, composting, landspreading or other alternative methods are
not practical; or
      (d)   Disposal of diseased trees generated on site, diseased or infected
nursery stock or diseased bee hives.
   (3)   Permit application for open burning and permit fees.
      (a)   Open burning permits shall be obtained by making application on a
form adopted by the Public Safety Department. The permit application shall be
presented to the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or an Assistant Fire Marshal. Each
application shall be accompanied by a fee, as set annually by City Council
ordinance.
      (b)   Upon receipt of the completed open burning permit application and
permit fee, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire Marshal will
schedule a preliminary site inspection to locate the proposed burn site, note
special conditions, set dates and times of permitted burn and review fire
safety considerations.
      (c)   If established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit
are not met, or, during review of the application, it is determined that a
practical alternative method for disposal of the material exists, or a
pollution or nuisance condition would result, or if a burn event safety plan
cannot be drafted to the satisfaction of the official reviewing the
application, the official may deny the application for the open burn permit.
   (4)   Permit holder responsibility.
      (a)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be
responsible for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in
effect. Every open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit
holder. The attendant shall have available appropriate communication and fire
suppression equipment as on site at all times.
      (b)   The open burn shall be completely extinguished before the permit
holder leaves the site. No fire may be allowed to smolder with no flame
present. It is the responsibility of the permit holder to have a valid permit,
as required by this section, available for inspection on the site at all times.
      (c)   The permit holder is responsible for the compliance and
implementation of all general conditions, special conditions and the burn event
safety plan as established in the permit issued. The permit holder shall be
responsible for all costs incurred as a result of the burn, including, but not
limited to, fire suppression and administrative fees.
   (5)   Revocation of open burning permit. The open burning permit is subject
to revocation at the discretion of the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant
Fire Marshal. Reasons for revocation include, but are not limited to, a fire
hazard existing or developing during the course of the burn, any of the
conditions of the permit being violated during the course of the burn,
pollution or nuisance conditions developing during the course of the burn, or a
fire smoldering with no flame present.
(Prior Code, § 505.05) (Ord. 11-00, passed 8-14-2000; Am. Ord. 01-16, passed 6-
13-2016)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 505.06 BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT. 
   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or DNR has
officially declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire conditions or
when the MPCA has declared an air quality alert.
(Prior Code, § 505.06) (Ord. 11-00, passed 8-14-2000)
§ 505.07 VIOLATION. 
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter, or of the terms of any
permit issued pursuant to this chapter, shall be a misdemeanor. Each day a
violation exists shall be a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 505.07) (Ord. 11-00, passed 8-14-2000)
CHAPTER 506: RESERVED
CHAPTER 507: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
Section
   
507.01   Purpose
   
507.02   Short title
   
507.03   Definitions
   
507.04   Residential solid waste collection required
   
507.05   Commercial solid waste collection required
   
507.06   Solid waste storage
   
507.07   Solid waste disposal
   
507.08   Enforcement and penalty
§ 507.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of the City Council, by means of this chapter, to require
the collection of mixed municipal solid waste throughout the city so that the
disposal of these materials is accomplished in a sanitary manner so that the
health and sanitary conditions of the residents of the city is properly
safeguarded and so that the city is in compliance with the State of Minnesota
and Anoka County mixed municipal solid waste management mandates.
(Prior Code, § 507.01)
§ 507.02 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Solid Waste Collection Chapter of the
City of Lino Lakes, County of Anoka, State of Minnesota.
(Prior Code, § 507.02)
§ 507.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural include singular, and words in the singular include
the plural.
   CITY. The City of Lino Lakes, County of Anoka, State of Minnesota.
   COLLECTION. The aggregation of mixed municipal solid waste from the place at
which it is generated and includes all activities up to the time the waste is
delivered to a waste facility.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS. Any premise where an institutional, commercial or
industrial enterprise of any kind is carried on, including restaurants, clubs,
churches and schools.
   GARBAGE. Animal, vegetable or other putrescible wastes, but excluding sewage
or other forms of water-carried wastes.
   HAULER. A collector and transporter of mixed municipal solid waste from any
household or commercial establishment.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which two
or more occupied manufactured homes are located either free of charge or for
compensation, and includes any building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure
used or intended for use as part of the equipment of the manufactured home
park.
   MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse and other mixed municipal solid
waste residential, commercial, industrial and community activities which is
generated and collected in aggregate, but does not include auto hulks, street
sweepings, ash, construction debris, mining waste, sludges, tree and
agricultural wastes, tires, materials collected, processed and disposed of as
separate waste streams.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any building used for residential purposes consisting of
three or more residential units with individual kitchen facilities for each.
   RECYCLABLES. Materials which can be separated from the mixed municipal solid
waste stream for collection and preparation for reuse in their original form or
for other uses in manufacturing processes that do not cause the destruction of
the recyclable materials in a manner that precludes further use.
   REFUSE. Nonputrescible mixed municipal solid wastes such as glass, crockery,
cans, paper, boxes, rags, but excluding ashes, sand, earth, brick, stone,
concrete, trees, tree branches and wood.
   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse and other solid waste from
residential activities which is generated and collected in aggregate, but
excluding auto hulks or large auto parts, ash, construction debris, household
hazardous waste, tree and agricultural wastes, tires, lead acid batteries, used
oil, yard waste and other materials collected, processed and disposed of as
separate waste streams.
   TARGETED RECYCLABLES. Specific recyclable materials designated by the city
for collection at curbside.
   YARD WASTE. Garden wastes, leaves, lawn cuttings and weeds.
(Prior Code, § 507.03)
§ 507.04 RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE COLLECTION REQUIRED.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 115A.941, as it may be amended from time to time, every
person who owns or occupies property within the city for business, commercial
or residential purposes shall contract for collection service for mixed
municipal solid waste, as defined herein, which may accumulate upon the
property at least once a week, with a hauler licensed to do business in Anoka
County.
   (1)   Residential solid waste collection license. No person shall collect
garbage, refuse or recyclables from residences in the city without first
securing a license from the city. The City Council, in the interest of
maintaining healthful and sanitary conditions in the city, hereby reserves the
right to limit the number of licenses initially issued to five, through
attrition the maximum number of licenses issued shall decrease to four.
      (a)   License requirements. The license shall be valid for one calendar
year and shall expire on June 1 of each year unless revoked sooner. For the
purposes of implementing this, the licenses will first be made available to
those haulers operating in the city at the time of the enactment of this
chapter. All persons engaged in the business of individual residential
collection in the city shall secure a license by June 1, 1993.
      (b)   The license is non-transferable, unless approved by the City
Council. The licensee shall not be entitled to refund of any license fee upon
revocation or voluntarily ceasing to carry on the license activity.
      (c)   An applicant for a license shall make application to the City Clerk
or a designated representative through forms and procedures prescribed by the
City Clerk. The application for a license shall contain the following
information:
         1.   The name, phone number and current business address of the
applicant; and
         2.   A list of the place or places to which the residential solid
waste and/or recyclables are to be hauled.
      (d)   An applicant must obtain all the insurance required by this
section. All costs and expenses are the responsibility of the applicant. All
insurance coverage is subject to the approval by the city and shall be
maintained by the licensee during the term of the license. No work under this
license shall be commenced until the requirements of this section have been
satisfied.
      (e)   The licensee shall obtain and maintain statutory workers'
compensation insurance and employer's liability insurance as required under the
laws of the State of Minnesota and shall hold the city free and harmless from
all liability from any cause that may arise by reason of injuries to any
employee of the licensee.
      (f)   In the event that the licensee is the sole proprietor and has not
elected to provide worker's compensation insurance, the licensee shall be
required to execute and submit an affidavit of sole proprietorship in a form
satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 36-97, passed 12-8-1997)
      (g)   An annual license fee shall be established by the annual fee
schedule ordinance that is approved by the City Council.
      (h)   The City Clerk or a designated representative shall issue licenses
only after receipt and review of all required forms, certificates and fees and
they are confirmed to comply with the provisions previously stated. An
applicant denied a license by the city may have the decision reviewed by the
City Council. The applicant shall request review by the City Council in writing
within ten days after denial of the license.
   (2)   Duties and obligations of the licensed collector. A licensed garbage,
refuse and/or recyclables operator must comply with the following operational
requirements. Failure to observe these provisions may be a basis for suspension
or revocation of a license.
      (a)   The licensee shall notify the city of any change to their
application materials in a timely manner.
      (b)   The licensee shall comply with all state, county, local laws and
regulations.
      (c)   No collection of garbage, refuse, yard waste and/or recyclable
materials shall be made except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
Monday through Saturday, with no collection on Sunday, except under extenuating
circumstances including poor weather conditions or natural disasters. Customers
shall be reasonably notified of the specific day for the collection of their
garbage, refuse and/or recyclables and the licensee shall collect the materials
on those days.
      (d)   The licensee shall offer residential customers at minimum, a three
tiered rate volume option, where the rate charged for garbage collection
increases as the volume of garbage collected increases, with a minimum of three
volume categories.
      (e)   The licensee shall not impose a greater charge on residential
customers who recycle than those who do not recycle.
      (f)   Each licensed garbage, refuse and/or recyclables collector shall
only use vehicles and equipment so constructed that the contents will not leak
or spill. The vehicles and equipment shall also be kept clean and as free from
offensive odors as possible, and shall not stand in any street or public place
longer than is reasonably necessary to collect garbage, refuse, yard waste and/
or recyclables. The licensee shall also ensure that the immediate collection
site is left tidy and free of litter.
   (3)   Mandatory recycling for residential solid waste haulers. 
      (a)   Each licensed garbage, refuse and/or recyclables collector shall
provide its residential customers with an opportunity to recycle through the at
least biweekly curbside collection of targeted recyclables.
      (b)   The curbside collection of targeted recyclables shall be on the
same day as the collection of the customer's garbage and/or refuse, but may
occur at a different time within that day. The targeted recyclables collection
shall be from a location at or near the customer's garbage/refuse collection
site or other location mutually agreeable to the hauler and the customer.
      (c)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent a licensee from
offering curbside collection for other recyclable materials, in addition to the
targeted recyclables.
      (d)   Adequate notification as to why recyclable material was not picked
up must be left with any recyclable material(s) left at curbside.
      (e)   The licensee is also deemed the owner of the recyclables upon
collection, the licensee may market them.
      (f)   Each licensee shall submit a quarterly report to the city that
identifies the weight in tons of recyclables and the volume in cubic yards of
yard wastes that were collected by the licensee from city residences.
   (4)   Indemnification. The licensee shall hold the city harmless from all
damages and claims of damages that may arise by reason of any negligence of the
licensee or the licensee's agent or employee while engaged in the performance
of the work and services covered by the license requirements and shall
indemnify the city against all claims, liens, expenses and claims for liens for
work, tools, machinery, materials or insurance premiums or equipment or
supplies and against all loss by reason of failure of the licensee in any
respect to fully perform all obligations outlined in the duties and obligations
of licensed residential solid waste collectors.
   (5)   License revocation. The City Council may suspend or revoke the license
of any hauling company whose conduct is found to be in violation of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (6)   Anti-scavenging provision. It is unlawful for any person or business
to scavenge, collect or otherwise remove garbage, refuse, recyclables or yard
waste that has been placed at the curb or in recycling containers, without a
license from the city and an account relationship with the owner, lessee or
occupant of the premises.
   (7)   Penalty. Any person convicted of violating this chapter shall be
guilty of a petty misdemeanor. The penalty may be imposed in addition to
suspension or revocation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 507.04) (Am. Ord. 05-11, passed 1-24-2011)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 507.05 COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE COLLECTION REQUIRED.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 115A.941, as it may be amended from time to time, every
person who owns or occupies property within the city for business, commercial
or residential purposes shall contract for collection service for mixed
municipal solid waste, as defined herein, which may accumulate upon the
property at least once a week, with a hauler licensed to do business in Anoka
County.
   (1)   Commercial solid waste collection license. No person shall collect
garbage, refuse or recyclables from commercial establishments, multi-family
dwellings or manufactured home parks in the city without first securing a
commercial solid waste collection license from the city. The City Council, in
the interest of maintaining healthful and sanitary conditions in the city,
hereby reserves the right to limit the number of licenses initially issued to
seven, through attrition the number of licenses issued shall decrease to four.
(Ord. 05-94, passed 4-11-1994; Am. Ord. 17-95, passed 11-13-1995)
      (a)   License requirements. All persons engaged in the business of mixed
municipal solid waste collection from commercial establishments, multiple
dwellings or manufactured home parks in the city shall secure a commercial
solid waste hauler license by June 1, 1994.
      (b)   An annual license fee shall be established in the annual fee
schedule approved by the City Council. A licensee that has a residential solid
waste collection license shall not be charged additional license fees for a
commercial solid waste license. Additional requirements are the same as for
residential haulers.
   (2)   Duties and obligations of the licensed collector - commercial haulers.
A licensed commercial garbage, refuse and/or recyclables collector must comply
with the following operational requirements. Failure to observe these
provisions may be a basis for suspension or revocation of a license.
      (a)   The licensee shall operate in a manner consistent with its
application materials and shall provide notice to the city within ten days of
any change in the information, forms or certificates filed as part of the
license application process.
      (b)   The licensee shall comply with all state, county and local laws and
regulations.
      (c)   Each licensed garbage, refuse and/or recyclables collector shall
only use vehicles and equipment so constructed that the contents will not leak
or spill. The vehicles and equipment shall also be kept clean and as free from
offensive odors as possible, and shall not stand in any street or public place
longer than is reasonably necessary to collect garbage, refuse, yard waste and/
or recyclables. The licensee shall also ensure that the immediate collection
site is left tidy and free of litter.
      (d)   No collection of garbage, refuse, yard waste and/or recyclable
materials shall be made except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
Monday through Saturday, with no collection on Sunday, except under extenuating
circumstances including poor weather conditions or natural disasters. Customers
shall be reasonably notified of the specific day for the collection of their
garbage, refuse and/or recyclables and the licensee shall collect the materials
on those days.
   (3)   Mandatory recycling service for solid waste haulers - commercial. Each
licensed garbage, refuse and/or recyclables collector shall provide its
commercial customers with an opportunity to recycle at least three recyclable
materials through the weekly collection of recyclables.
      (a)   The recyclables collection shall be from a location at or near the
customer's garbage/refuse collection site or other location mutually agreeable
to the hauler and the customer.
      (b)   The recyclable materials collected shall be those mutually agreed
upon by the hauler and the customer.
      (c)   Each licensee shall submit a quarterly report to the city that
identifies the type and weight in tons of recyclables that were collected by
the licensee from city commercial establishments, multiple- family dwellings
and mobile home parks.
   (4)   Indemnification. The licensee shall hold the city harmless from all
damages and claims of damages that may arise by reason of any negligence of the
licensee or the licensee's agent or employee while engaged in the performance
of the work and services covered by the license requirements and shall
indemnify the city against all claims, liens, expenses and claims for liens for
work, tools, machinery, materials or insurance premiums or equipment or
supplies and against all loss by reason of failure of the licensee in any
respect to fully perform all obligations outlined in the duties and obligations
of licensed residential solid waste collectors.
   (5)   License revocation. The City Council may suspend or revoke the license
of any hauling company whose conduct is found to be in violation of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (6)   Penalty. Any person convicted of violating this chapter shall be
guilty of a petty misdemeanor. The penalty may be imposed in addition to
suspension or revocation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 507.05) (Am. Ord. 05-11, passed 1-24-2011)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 507.06 SOLID WASTE STORAGE.
   The owner, occupant and/or the person in control of any residential
property, business establishment or industry, shall be responsible for the
satisfactory storage of all mixed municipal solid waste accumulated at the
premises, business establishment or industry.
   (1)   Garbage shall be stored in durable, rust-resistant, non-absorbent,
watertight, rodent-proof and easily cleanable containers, with close-fitting,
fly-tight covers and/or disposable plastic bags with tightly sealed openings.
Refuse shall be stored in durable containers. Where garbage is stored in
combination with refuse, containers for the storage of the mixture shall meet
the requirements for garbage containers.
   (2)   All containers for the storage of garbage and refuse shall be
maintained in a manner as to prevent the creation of a nuisance or menace to
public health. Containers that are broken or otherwise fail to meet
requirements of this chapter shall be replaced with acceptable containers.
(Prior Code, § 507.06)
§ 507.07 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL.
   Disposal of any mixed municipal solid waste collected within the city, by
any private hauler shall be done only at places specifically designated by
Anoka County, as stated in the Anoka County Ordinance No. 73-1, 82-1, 83-2, 83-
3, 84-2, 85-5, 86-1, 88-1, 88-4, 88-5, 89-1, 91-1 and 92-2 Section IX,
Subsection 4. Allowable exceptions are any materials listed as exempt in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 507.07)
§ 507.08 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this chapter,
after September 1, 1992, shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 507.08)
CHAPTER 508: REGULATING THE USE OF BURGLAR AND SAFETY ALARMS, ESTABLISHING
USER'S FEES AND ESTABLISHING A SYSTEM OF ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
508.01   Scope and purpose
   
508.02   Definitions
   
508.03   User fees
   
508.04   Payment of fees
   
508.05   Alarm report
   
508.06   Administrative rules
   
508.07   Confidentiality
   
508.08   Enforcement and penalties
§ 508.01 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   (1)   This section regulates the use of burglar and safety alarms,
establishes user's fees and establishes a system of administration.
   (2)   The purpose of this section is to protect the public safety services
of the city from misuse of public safety alarms and to provide the maximum
possible service to public safety alarm users.
(Prior Code, § 508.01)
§ 508.02 DEFINITIONS. 
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. An alarm installation designed to be used for the prevention
or detection of burglary, robbery, heat, smoke and fire on the premises which
contain an alarm installation. Automobile alarm devices are not an ALARM
SYSTEM.
   ALARM USER. A person in control of any building, structure or facility
wherein an alarm system is maintained.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm signal eliciting a response by police or fire
personnel when a situation requiring a response does not, in fact, exist and
which is caused by the activation of the alarm system through mechanical
failure, alarm malfunction, improper installation or the inadvertence of the
owner or lessee of an alarm system. The term does not include alarms caused by
climatic conditions such as tornadoes, thunderstorms, utility line mishaps,
violent conditions of nature or any other conditions which  are clearly beyond
the control of the alarm manufacturer, installer or owner.
   POLICE COMMUNICATIONS CENTER. The Anoka County facility used to receive
emergency requests for service and general information from the public.
(Prior Code, § 508.02)
§ 508.03 USER FEES.
   (1)   A public safety alarm system that reports more than three false alarms
to the city in a single calendar year and that has received notice of the
violations will cause the alarm user to be charged a user fee as set forth in
the fee schedule ordinance approved annually by the City Council.
   (2)   An alarm user that is required by the city to pay a user fee as the
result of a false alarm may make a written appeal of the false alarm charge to
the Police Chief within ten days of notice by the city of the false alarm
charge. Following review and determination by the Police Chief, the decision
may be appealed to the City Administrator who will make a final determination
as to whether the user is to be charged with a false alarm.
(Prior Code, § 508.03)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 508.04 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   (1)   Payment of user fees are paid to the Treasurer within 30 days from the
date of notice by the city to the alarm user. Failure to pay the fee will cause
the alarm user to be considered delinquent and subject to a penalty of an
additional 5% of the unpaid fee for each additional 30-day period that the fee
remains unpaid.
   (2)   The Treasurer shall prepare a list of the delinquent amounts against
the respective properties served and deliver the list to the City Council for
adoption on or before October 15 of each year. Mailed, written notice of the
delinquent amounts and of the hearing which the Council must have before the
list is certified shall be given to the owners of the real property from whom
the amounts are to be collected. The certified list of delinquent amounts shall
be filed with the Anoka County Auditor by the Treasurer and the County Auditor
shall thereupon enter the amount as part of the tax levy on the premises to be
collected during the ensuing year.
(Prior Code, § 508.04)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 508.05 ALARM REPORT.
   If an alarm user has incurred five false alarms within one calendar year,
the alarm user shall submit a written report to the Police Chief within ten
days after being notified of the fifth false alarm, describing actions taken or
to be taken to discover and eliminate the cause of the false alarms. Failure to
submit the written report is a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 508.05)
§ 508.06 ADMINISTRATIVE RULES.
   The Police Chief shall prepare for Council consideration the rules as may be
necessary for the implementation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 508.06)
§ 508.07 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (1)   Information submitted in compliance with this chapter will be held in
confidence and exempt from discovery to the extent permitted by law.
   (2)   Subject to requirements of confidentiality, the Police Chief may
develop and maintain statistics for the purpose of ongoing alarm systems
evaluation.
(Prior Code, § 508.07)
§ 508.08 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   Failure or omission to comply with any section of this chapter is a petty
misdemeanor as defined by state law.
(Prior Code, § 508.08) Penalty, see §
101.06
CHAPTER 509: ULTIMATE FIGHTING
Section
   
509.01   Definition and purpose
   
509.02   Prohibited conduct
§ 509.01 DEFINITION AND PURPOSE.
   ULTIMATE FIGHTING is any activity, regardless of how named or described, or
any form of entertainment, where the primary practice involves individuals
engaged in physical contact by striking an opponent with hands, head, feet or
body. This shall include, but not be limited to, any contest where kicking,
punching, martial arts, or submission holds are permitted. The City Council
finds that the practice of ultimate fighting is dangerous and puts individuals
and the public health, safety and welfare at great risk.
(Ord. 12-07, passed 9-24-2007)
§ 509.02 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful in any public or private building or place to organize,
permit, be present at, or to participate in the practice of ultimate fighting.
Officially sanctioned and regulated boxing, martial arts, wrestling and team
sports in which physical contact is incidental to the primary purpose of the
game such as hockey, basketball, volleyball, soccer, baseball and softball, are
not included among activities prohibited by this section.
(Ord. 12-07, passed 9-24-2007)
CHAPTER 510: DISORDERLY HOUSES
Section
   
510.01   Definitions
   
510.02   Penalty for violation
   
510.03   Evidence
   
510.04   Operation
   
510.05   Presence in or visiting
§ 510.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISORDERLY HOUSE. Any building, dwelling, place, establishment, or premises
in which actions or conduct occur in violation of any law or ordinance relating
to the following:
      (a)   Sale or regulation of an intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor;
      (b)   Gambling;
      (c)   Prostitution, acts relating to prostitution, solicitation to vice,
or lewd and indecent behavior;
      (d)   The sale, possession, or use of drugs or controlled substances as
defined by state law;
      (e)   Disorderly conduct as defined by state law;
      (f)   Assault as defined by state law;
      (g)   Public nuisance as defined by state law; or
      (h)   Any other unlawful conduct or pattern of unlawful conduct pursuant
to city ordinance or state law.
(Ord. 14-18, passed 9-24-2018)
§ 510.02 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   (1)   Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (2)   Each violation and every day in which a violation occurs or continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 14-18, passed 9-24-2018)
§ 510.03 EVIDENCE.
   (1)   Evidence of unlawful sales or free distribution of intoxicating liquor
or 3.2% malt liquor or of gambling shall be prima facie evidence of the
existence of a disorderly house.
   (2)   Evidence of possession, sale, or use of drugs or controlled substances
shall be prima facie evidence of the existence of a disorderly house. Evidence
of possession, sale, or use of drugs and/or controlled substances may include,
but is not limited to, the presence in the house of devices for smoking cocaine
or marijuana, scales, sieves or sifters, or any other drug paraphernalia, shall
be prima facie evidence of the existence of a disorderly house.
   (3)   Evidence of the occurrence of any incident of disorderly conduct,
assault, or public nuisance shall be prima facie evidence of the existence of a
disorderly house.
   (4)   Evidence of a violation of this code or the Uniform Building Code
shall be prima facie evidence of the existence of a disorderly house.
   (5)   Evidence of any weapon violation shall be prima facie evidence of the
existence of a disorderly house.
   (6)   Evidence of a pattern of vandalism and/or theft by the occupants of a
disorderly house shall constitute prima facie evidence that such occupants
reside in a disorderly house.
(Ord. 14-18, passed 9-24-2018)
§ 510.04 OPERATION.
   No person shall own, lease, operate, manage, reside in, maintain, or conduct
a disorderly house, or invite or attempt to invite others to visit or remain in
such disorderly house.
(Ord. 14-18, passed 9-24-2018)
§ 510.05 PRESENCE IN OR VISITING.
   No person shall be present in, visit, or remain in a disorderly house.
(Ord. 14-18, passed 9-24-2018)
CHAPTER 511: TARGETED PICKETING
Section
   
511.01   Preamble
   
511.02   Definitions
   
511.03   Prohibited activity
   
511.04   Violation/penalty
§ 511.01 PREAMBLE.
   (1)   The City Council finds that targeted residential picketing in front of
or about a residential dwelling causes emotional distress to the dwelling
occupants, obstructs and interferes with the free use of public rights-of-way
and has as its object the harassment of the dwelling occupants;
   (2)   The City Council further finds that, without resorting to targeted
residential picketing, ample opportunities exist for those otherwise engaged in
targeted residential picketing to exercise constitutionally protected freedom
of speech and expression; and
   (3)   The protection and preservation of the home is the keystone of
democratic government; the public health and welfare and the good order of the
community require that members of the community enjoy, in their homes and
dwellings, a feeling of well-being, tranquility and privacy and, when absent
from their homes and dwellings, carry with them the sense of security inherent
in the assurance that they may return to the enjoyment of their homes and
dwellings; the practice of picketing before or about residences and dwellings
causes emotional disturbance and distress to the occupants, obstructs and
interferes with the free use of public sidewalks and public ways of travel;
such practice has as its object the harassing of such occupants and, without
resort to such practice, full opportunity exists, and under the terms and
provisions of this chapter, will continue to exist for the exercise of freedom
of speech and their constitutional rights; and that the provisions hereinafter
enacted are necessary for the public interest to avoid the detrimental results
herein set forth.
(Ord. 08-20, passed 11-23-2020)
§ 511.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TARGETED RESIDENTIAL PICKETING. An activity, including but not limited to
marching, standing or patrolling, that is focused on a single residential
dwelling without the consent of the dwelling's occupant(s).
(Ord. 08-20, passed 11-23-2020)
§ 511.03 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   No person shall engage in targeted residential picketing within the city.
(Ord. 08-20, passed 11-23-2020)
§ 511.04 VIOLATION/PENALTY.
   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 08-20, passed 11-23-2020)
600: BUSINESS AND ACTIVITY LICENSES
      Chapter
         
601.   LICENSES
         
602.   REGULATING THE SALE, POSSESSION AND USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND TOBACCO
RELATED DEVICES
         
603.   TAXICAB SERVICE
         
604.   TAXICAB DRIVERS
         
605.   CONTRACTORS
         
606.   LARGE ASSEMBLIES
         
607.   LODGING
         
608.   PUBLIC DANCING
         
609.   RESERVED
         
610.   SHOOTING RANGE
         
611.   LAWFUL GAMBLING
         
612.   PAWNBROKERS; PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS; SECONDHAND GOODS DEALERS
         
613.   TRANSIENT MERCHANT, PEDDLER, CANVASSER AND SOLICITOR
         
614.   ADULT USES (SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES)
         
615.   SPECIAL EVENTS
         
616.   THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE
         
617.   EDIBLE CANNABINOID PRODUCTS
CHAPTER 601: LICENSES
Section
   
601.01   Scope
   
601.02   Applications
   
601.03   Term
   
601.04   Fees
   
601.05   Background checks
   
601.06   Suspension and revocation
   
601.07   Where allowed
   
601.08   Display
   
601.09   Transfers
§ 601.01 SCOPE.
   The provisions of §§
601.01 through
601.09 shall apply to all licenses issued under this title.
(Prior Code, § 601.01)
§ 601.02 APPLICATIONS.
   Every application for a license shall be made to the City Clerk on forms
supplied by the city and shall state the applicant's name and address, the name
of the business, if different, the business or activity for which a license is
sought, the address of the premises on or from which the business is to be
operated or the activity is to be conducted, any other businesses operated from
or on the same premises, and any other information as may be required by this
code or by the Council. All applications shall be accompanied by payment in
full of the license fee. The license fee shall be refunded if the license is
denied, unless otherwise specifically provided in this chapter. All licenses
must be approved by the Council, except when otherwise authorized by this code.
(Prior Code, § 601.02)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 601.03 TERM. 
   Except as otherwise specifically provided, all licenses issued under this
title shall be for the term of one year and shall expire on December 31 of each
year.
(Prior Code, § 601.03)
§ 601.04 FEES.
   Fees for licenses issued under this title shall be based on Council
ordinance and as referenced in the city fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 601.04)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 601.05 BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to Minnesota's computerized
criminal history information for specified non-criminal purposes of licensing
background checks.
   (2)   Criminal history license background investigations. The Lino Lakes
Police Department is hereby required, as the exclusive entity within the city,
to do a criminal history background investigation on the applicants for the
following licenses within the city:
      (a)   Liquor;
      (b)   Tobacco;
      (c)   Cabaret;
      (d)   Lawful gambling;
      (e)   Special event;
      (f)   Peddler, solicitor, transient merchant;
      (g)   Taxicab;
      (h)   Pawnbroker, precious metal dealers, secondhand good dealers;
      (i)   Adult uses (sexually-oriented businesses);
      (j)   Massage therapists and therapeutic massage businesses; and
      (k)   Edible cannabinoid products.
   (3)   Criteria for rejection. Except for the positions set forth in M.S. §
364.09, as it may be amended from time to time, the city will not reject an
applicant for a license on the basis of the applicant’s prior conviction unless
the crime is directly related to the license sought and the conviction is for a
felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the city
rejects the applicant’s request on this basis, the city shall notify the
applicant in writing of the following:
      (a)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
      (b)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in M.S. §
364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (c)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for the license; and
      (d)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
(Ord. 12-08, passed 9-8-2008; Am. Ord. 03-16, passed 6-13-2016; Am. Ord. 06-17,
passed 12-11-2017; Am. Ord. 03-22, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 601.06 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The Council may suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or revoke any
license for violation of any provision of this title or any applicable law or
regulation. No license shall be suspended or revoked unless the licensee has
been given written notice and a public hearing. The notice shall give at least
ten days notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature
of the charges against the licensee. The Council may, without any advance
notice or hearing, suspend any license pending a hearing on revocation for a
period of not exceeding 15 days.
(Prior Code, § 601.06)
§ 601.07 WHERE ALLOWED.
   No license shall be issued for any premises unless located in an area where
the business for which the license is sought is permitted by the Zoning
Chapter.
(Prior Code, § 601.07)
§ 601.08 DISPLAY. 
   Except as otherwise specifically provided by the code, every license shall
be kept conspicuously posted on the premises, on or from which the business is
operated, and shall be exhibited to any person on request.
(Prior Code, § 601.08)
§ 601.09 TRANSFERS.
   No license shall be transferable to any other person or location unless
specifically provided by this title.
(Prior Code, § 601.09)
CHAPTER 602: REGULATING THE SALE, POSSESSION AND USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND
TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES
Section
   
602.01   Purpose
   
602.02   Definitions and interpretations
   
602.03   License
   
602.04   Fee
   
602.05   Basis for denial of license
   
602.06   Prohibited sales
   
602.07   Vending machines
   
602.08   Self-service sales
   
602.09   Responsibility
   
602.10   Compliance checks
   
602.11   Other illegal acts
   
602.12   Exceptions and defenses
   
602.13   Violations and penalties
§ 602.01 PURPOSE.
   Because the City of Lino Lakes recognizes that many people under the age of
21 purchase or otherwise obtain, possess and use tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco related devices, and these sales, possession and use are violations of
state and federal laws; and because smoking has been shown to be the cause of
several serious health problems which place a financial burden on all levels of
government; this chapter shall be intended to regulate the sale, possession and
use of tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related devices for the purpose of
enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect minors against the serious
effects associated with the illegal use of tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco related devices, and to further the official public policy of the State
of Minnesota in regard to preventing young people from starting to smoke as
stated in M.S. § 144.391, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 07-99, passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. 06-22, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 602.02 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the City of Lino Lakes uses to investigate and
ensure that those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco
related devices are following and complying with the requirements of this
chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall involve the use of persons under the age of 21
as authorized by this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the use of
persons under the age of 21 who attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco related devices for educational, research and training purposes as
authorized by state and federal laws. COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be conducted
by other units of government for the purpose of enforcing appropriate federal,
state or local laws and regulations relating to tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco related devices.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. Individually wrapped tobacco and tobacco
products shall include but not be limited to single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging
of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this definition shall not be
considered individually packaged.
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a truck,
van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a
fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized for
sales transactions.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco related devices are available for sale to the general public.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SELF SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco related devices in any manner where any person shall have access to
those items without the assistance or intervention of the licensee or the
licensee's employees. The assistance or intervention shall entail the actual
physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device
between the customer or the licensee or employee. The phrase shall not include
vending machines. Self-service sales are interpreted as being any sale where
there is not an actual physical exchange of tobacco between the clerk and the
customer.
   TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance or item containing tobacco leaf,
including but not limited to, cigarettes; cigars; pipe tobacco; snuff; fine cut
or other chewing tobacco; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut,
crimp cut, ready-rubbed and other smoking tobacco; snuff flowers; cavendish;
shorts; plug and twist tobaccos; dipping tobaccos; refuse scraps, clippings,
cuttings and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco leaf
prepared in a manner as to be suitable for chewing, sniffing or smoking.
   TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES. Any tobacco product as well as a pipe, rolling
papers or other device intentionally designed or intended to be used in a
manner which enables the chewing, sniffing or smoking of tobacco or tobacco
products.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices
upon insertion of money, tokens or other form of payment directly into the
device by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco related devices.
(Ord. 07-99, passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. 06-22, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 602.03 LICENSE.
   (1)   License required. No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco related device without first having obtained a
license to do so from the city.
   (2)   Application. An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco related devices shall be made on a form provided by the
city. The application is to be returned to the City of Lino Lakes at which time
the application will be forwarded to the Police Department for background
checks. If the application is deemed incomplete it shall be returned to the
applicant with a notice of the missing data. No incomplete applications will be
reviewed. The application shall contain the full name of the applicant, the
applicant's residential and business addresses and telephone numbers, the name
of the business for which the license is sought and any additional information
the city deems necessary. Upon receipt of a completed application, the City
Clerk shall forward the application to the City Council for action. If the City
Clerk shall determine that an application is incomplete, he or she shall return
the application to the applicant with notice of the information necessary to
make the application complete.
   (3)   Action. The City Council may either approve or deny the license, or it
may delay action for a reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
City Council shall approve the license, the City Clerk shall issue the license
to the applicant.
   (4)   Term. The licensing period for licenses issued under this chapter
shall be one year, commencing July 1 and ending on June 30 of the following
year. New licenses may be issued throughout the licensing period however there
shall be no reduction in the yearly license fee.
   (5)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended as provided in the §§
602.13 and 602.14 of this chapter.
   (6)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued.
   (7)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this chapter.
   (8)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premises.
   (9)   Renewals. Renewals of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 30 days, but no more than 60 days before the
expiration of the current license.
   (10)   Issuance as privilege and not a right. The issuance of a license
issued under this chapter shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute
right of the applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal
of the license.
(Ord. 07-99, passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. 06-22, passed 12-12-2022)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 602.04 FEE.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be as
determined in the city's adopted fee schedule.
(Ord. 07-99, passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. 06-22, passed 12-12-2022)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 602.05 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a
license under this chapter; however, except as may otherwise be provided by
law, the existence of any particular ground for denial does not mean that the
city must deny the license. If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a
person, it shall be revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible
for the license under this section. (Note: The following is not an exclusive
nor an exhaustive list.)
   (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years.
   (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state or local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation relating to tobacco, tobacco products or product related devices.
   (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco related devices revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date of
application.
   (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application or provides false or misleading information.
   (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state or other local law,
ordinance or other regulation, from holding a license.
(Ord. 07-99, passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. 06-22, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 602.06 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to
sell any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device:
   (1)   To any person under the age of 21 years;
   (2)   By means of any type of vending machine, except as may otherwise be
provided in this chapter (See §
602.07, Vending Machines);
   (3)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need to
make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premise in
order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device and
whereby there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco related device between the licensee or the licensee's employee and the
customer;
   (4)   By means of loosies as defined §
602.02;
   (5)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process. It is not the
intention of this provision to ban the sale of lawfully manufactured cigarettes
or other tobacco products; or
   (6)   By any other means, to any other person, in any manner or form
prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation.
(Ord. 07-99, passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. 06-22, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 602.07 VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices by means of a
vending machine unless persons under the age of 21 years are at all times
prohibited from entering the licensed establishment.
(Ord. 07-99, passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. 06-22, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 602.08 SELF-SERVICE SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to allow the sale of
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices by any means whereby the
customer may have access to the items without having to request the item from
the licensee or the licensee's employee and whereby there is not a physical
exchange of the tobacco, tobacco products or the tobacco related device between
the licensee or his or her clerk and the customer. All tobacco, tobacco
products and tobacco related devices shall either be stored behind a counter or
other area not freely accessible to the general public.
(Ord. 07-99, passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. 06-22, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 602.09 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco
related devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of the item by an
employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as prohibiting the City of Lino Lakes from also
subjecting the clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under this chapter,
state or federal law, or other applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 07-99, passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. 06-22, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 602.10 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the city police or
other authorized city official during regular business hours. From time to
time, but at least once per year, the city shall conduct compliance checks by
engaging persons at least 17 years of age, but less than 21 years of age, to
enter each licensed premises to attempt to purchase intoxicating liquor. Prior
written consent from a parent or guardian is required for any person under the
age of 18 to participate in a compliance check. Persons used for the purpose of
compliance checks shall be supervised by city designated law enforcement
officers or other designated city personnel. No persons used in compliance
checks shall attempt to use a false identification misrepresenting the person’s
age, and all persons lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all
questions about the person’s age asked by the licensee or his or her employee
and shall produce any identification, if any exists, for which he or she is
asked. Nothing in this section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by
state or federal laws for educational, research, training purposes or required
for enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(Ord. 07-99, passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. 06-22, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 602.11 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter.
   (1)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
to sell or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related
device to any person under the age of 21 years.
   (2)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person under the age of 21 years to have in his or her possession any tobacco,
tobacco product or tobacco related device. This division shall not apply to a
person under the age of 21 years lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (3)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
under the age of 21 years to smoke, chew, sniff or otherwise use any tobacco,
tobacco product or tobacco related device.
   (4)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person under the age of 21 years to purchase or attempt to purchase or
otherwise obtain any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device, and it
shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to purchase or otherwise
obtain these items on behalf of a person under the age of 21 years. It shall
further be a violation for any person to coerce or attempt to coerce a person
under the age of 21 years to illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any
tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device. This division shall not
apply to a person under the age of 21 years lawfully involved in a compliance
check.
   (5)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any person under the age of 21 years to attempt to disguise his or her true
age by use of a false form of identification, whether the identification is
that of another person or one on which the age of the person has been modified
or tampered with to represent an age older than the actual age of the person.
(Ord. 07-99, passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. 06-22, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 602.12 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco related devices to a person under the age of 21 years as
part of a lawfully recognized religious, spiritual or cultural ceremony. It
shall be an affirmative defense to the violation of this chapter for a person
to have reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state law.
(Ord. 07-99, passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. 06-22, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 602.13 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (1)   Administrative civil penalties -- individuals. If a person who is not
a licensee is found to have violated this chapter, the person shall be charged
an administrative penalty as follows:
      (a)   First violation. The Council shall impose a civil fine not to
exceed $50.
      (b)   Second violation within 12 months. The Council shall impose a civil
fine not to exceed $100.
      (c)   Third violation within 12 months. The Council shall impose a civil
fine not to exceed $150.
   (2)   Same -- licensee. If a licensee or an employee of a licensee is found
to have violated this chapter, the licensee shall be charged an administrative
penalty as follows:
      (a)   First violation. The Council shall impose a civil fine of $500 and
suspend the license for not less than one day.
      (b)   Second violation within 36 months. The Council shall impose a civil
fine of $1,000 and suspend the license for not less than three consecutive
days.
      (c)   Third violation within 36 months. The Council shall impose a civil
fine of $2,000 and suspend the license for not less than ten consecutive days.
      (d)   Fourth violation within 36 months. The Council shall revoke the
license for at least one year.
   (3)   Administrative penalty procedures. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this section:
      (a)   Any of the administrative civil penalties set forth in this section
that may be imposed by the Council, may in the alternative be imposed by an
administrative citation.
      (b)   If one of the foregoing penalties is imposed by an action of the
Council, no penalty shall take effect until the licensee or person has received
notice (served personally or by mail) of the alleged violation and of the
opportunity for a hearing before the Council, and such notice must be in
writing and must provide that a right to a hearing before the Council must be
requested within ten business days of receipt of the notice or such right shall
terminate.
   (4)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 07-99, passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. 06-22, passed 12-12-2022)
CHAPTER 603: TAXICAB SERVICE
Section
   
603.01   Definitions
   
603.02   Certificate and license
   
603.03   Applications
   
603.04   Issuance of certification
   
603.05   Revocation of certificate
   
603.06   Taxicab license issuance
   
603.07   Rates
   
603.08   Public service
   
603.09   Defrauding taxicab operator
   
603.10   Taxicab stands
§ 603.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFICATE. A certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the
Council authorizing the holder thereof to conduct a taxicab business in the
city.
   OPERATOR. Any person owning or having control of the use of one or more
taxicabs used for hire upon the streets or engaged in the business of operating
a taxicab within the city.
   PRIVATE AUTO LIVERY. An automobile used to carry persons for hire other than
by solicitation of business by cruising about the streets.
   STREET. Any street, alley, avenue, court, bridge, lane or public place in
the city.
   TAXICAB. Any motor vehicle engaged in the carrying of persons for hire,
whether over a fixed route or not, and whether the same be operated from a
street stand or subject to calls from a garage or otherwise operated for hire
except private auto liveries as herein defined but the term shall not include
vehicles subject to control and regulation by the Public Service Commission of
the State of Minnesota or vehicles regularly used by undertakers in carrying on
their business.
   TAXICAB DRIVER. Any person who drives a taxicab within the city, whether the
owner of the taxicab or an employee of the taxicab owner or operator.
   TAXICAB STAND. Any place along the curb or street or elsewhere which is
exclusively reserved for the use of taxicabs.
   TAXIMETER. Any mechanical instrument or device by which the charge for hire
of a taxicab is mechanically calculated, whether by distance traveled or
waiting time or by both, and upon which the charge shall be indicated by
figures.
(Prior Code, § 603.01)
§ 603.02 CERTIFICATE AND LICENSE.
   (1)   Required. No person shall operate or permit a vehicle owned or
controlled by him or her to be operated as a taxicab upon the streets of the
city unless:
      (a)   He or she has been issued a certificate of convenience pursuant to
§
603.03(1); and
      (b)   A taxicab license has been issued for each taxicab to be operated,
pursuant to §
603.03(2).
   (2)   Exception. A taxicab licensed to operate in any other municipality may
carry passengers from the municipality where licensed to any place within the
city and may receive passengers for carriage to the municipality where
licensed; but owners and drivers of the vehicles shall not be permitted to
solicit business or otherwise operate as a taxicab on the streets of Lino Lakes
without possessing the certificate and license required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 603.02)
§ 603.03 APPLICATIONS.
   (1)   Certificate. In addition to the information required by §
601.02, an application for a certificate and license shall contain the
following information: the financial status of the applicant, including the
amounts of any unpaid judgments against the applicant and the nature of the
transactions or acts giving rise to judgments; the experience of the applicant
in the transportation of passengers; any facts which the applicant believes
tend to prove that public convenience and necessity require the granting of a
certificate; the number of vehicles to be operated or controlled by the
applicant; the location of proposed taxicab stands; and the color scheme or
insignia to be used to designate the applicant's vehicle or vehicles.
   (2)   Vehicle license. For each vehicle proposed to be licensed, the
application shall state the following: full name and address of the owner; the
class and passenger-carrying capacity; the length of time the vehicle has been
in service; the make; the serial number; the engine number; the state license
number; the name of the mortgagee and the amount of the mortgage on the
vehicle, if any; the holder of legal title to the vehicle, if other than the
applicant; whether the vehicle is leased, licensed or under any form of
contract permitted to be used or operated by some person other than the one
holding legal title thereto; and what person, firm or corporation will collect
the revenues from the vehicle's operation and pay the expenses of operating the
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 603.03)
§ 603.04 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE.
   (1)   General. The Council shall issue a certificate only if the conditions
and requirements of divisions (2), (3) and (4) are met. Each certificate shall
state the name and address of the applicant, the number of vehicles authorized
and the date of issuance.
   (2)   Public convenience.
      (a)   No certificate shall be issued unless the Council finds that the
public convenience and necessity require additional taxicab service in the
city, and that the applicant is fit, willing and able to perform the public
transportation in conformance with this chapter. The Council shall take into
consideration the number of taxicabs already in operation, whether or not
existing transportation is adequate to meet the public need, the probable
effect of increased service on local traffic conditions, and the character,
experience and responsibility of the applicant. The Council shall deem it
convenient and necessary to have one taxicab for each 8,000 persons living in
the city, or any other number as the Council may determine by resolution. The
Council may, in its discretion, permit the use of 50% additional taxicabs
during the period from November 15 to April 15 of each year.
      (b)   As additional certificates may become available, they may be issued
to any applicant fit, willing and able to perform under this chapter. If no
other applicant is available, the holder of any outstanding certificate may be
required by the Council to license and operate an additional taxicab or
taxicabs or forfeit his or her existing certificate.
   (3)   Insurance. No certificate shall be issued or continued unless there is
in full force and effect a liability insurance policy issued by an insurance
company licensed to do business in the state for each vehicle in the minimum
amount of $100,000 for bodily injury to any one person and $300,000 for each
accident; and $100,000 for property damage resulting from one accident. The
policy or certificate of the insurer showing issuance of the policy shall be
filed in the office of the City Clerk and shall contain a provision that the
insurer shall not cancel the policy without notifying the city, in writing, of
the cancellation, at least ten days before the proposed cancellation date.
   (4)   Taxicab license. No certificate shall be issued or continued in
operation unless a taxicab license has been issued, pursuant to §
603.06, for each taxicab to be operated.
(Prior Code, § 603.04)
§ 603.05 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   In addition to the grounds for revocation stated in §
601.06, a certificate may be revoked by the Council if the holder has
discontinued operations for more than 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 603.05)
§ 603.06 TAXICAB LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (1)   General. The Council shall cause the Chief of the Police Department or
some other employee on behalf of the city thoroughly and carefully to examine
each taxicab before a license is granted to operate the same. No license shall
be issued or continued for any taxicab which does not comply with the
conditions of divisions (2) through (7).
   (2)   Safety. Each taxicab shall be in a thoroughly safe condition for the
transportation of passengers.
   (3)   Cleanliness. Each taxicab shall be clean and of good appearance and
well painted and varnished.
   (4)   Identification. Each taxicab shall bear on the outside of each rear
door, in painted letters not less than four inches nor more than eight inches,
the name of the owner, or in addition, may bear an identifying design approved
by the Council. No vehicle covered by the terms of this chapter shall be
licensed whose color scheme, identifying design, monogram or insignia to be
used thereon shall, in the opinion of the Council, conflict with or imitate any
color scheme, identifying design, monogram or insignia used on a vehicle or
vehicles already operating under this chapter, in a manner as to be misleading
or tend to deceive or defraud the public. If, after a license has been issued
for a taxicab hereunder, the color scheme, identifying design, monogram or
insignia thereof is changed so as to be, in the opinion of the Council, in
conflict with or an imitation of any color scheme, identifying design, monogram
or insignia used by any other person, owner or operator, in a manner as to be
misleading or tend to deceive the public, the license of or certificate
covering the taxicab or taxicabs shall be suspended or revoked.
   (5)   Taximeter. All taxicabs operated under the authority of this chapter
shall be equipped with taximeters fastened in front of the passengers and
visible to them at all times day and night; and after sundown, the face of the
taximeter shall be illuminated. The taximeter shall be operated mechanically by
a mechanism of standard design and construction, driven either from the
transmission or from one of the front wheels by a flexible and permanently
attached driving mechanism. It shall be sealed at all points and connections
which, if manipulated, would affect its correct reading and recording. Each
taximeter shall have thereon a flag to denote when the vehicle is employed and
when it is not employed; and it shall be the duty of the driver to throw the
flag of each taximeter into a non-recording position at the termination of each
trip. The taximeters shall be subject to inspection at any time by the Police
Department. Any inspector or other officer of the department is hereby
authorized either on complaint of any person or without the complaint to
inspect any meter and, upon discovery of any inaccuracy therein, to notify the
person operating the taxicab to cease operation. Thereupon, the taxicab shall
be kept off the highways until the taximeter is repaired and in the required
working condition.
   (6)   Rate card. Each taxicab shall have a rate card setting forth the
authorized rates of fare, displayed in a place as to be in view of all
passengers.
   (7)   Other. Each taxicab shall pass any other examinations and tests as may
be reasonably ordered by the Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 603.06)
§ 603.07 RATES.
   Rates charged for taxicab service shall not exceed taxicab rates which are
lawful in the City of Minneapolis, Minnesota.
(Prior Code, § 603.07)
§ 603.08 PUBLIC SERVICE.
   All persons engaged in the taxicab business in the city and operating under
the provisions of this chapter shall render an overall service to the public
desiring to use taxicabs. Holders of certificates of public convenience and
necessity shall maintain a central place of business and keep the same open for
the hours of each day as the Council may direct for the purpose of receiving
calls and dispatching cabs. They shall answer all calls received by them for
services inside the corporate limits of the city as soon as they can do so and
if the services cannot be rendered within a reasonable time they shall then
notify the prospective passengers how long it will be before the call can be
answered and give the reason therefor. Any holder who shall refuse to accept a
call anywhere in the corporate limits of the city at any time when the holder
has available cabs, or who shall fail or refuse to give overall service, shall
be deemed a violator of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 603.08)
§ 603.09 DEFRAUDING TAXICAB OPERATOR. 
    No person shall hire any taxicab with the intent to defraud the person from
whom it is hired of the value of the service.
(Prior Code, § 603.09)
§ 603.10 TAXICAB STANDS.
   (1)   Creation. The Council may by resolution establish open taxicab stands
in a place or places upon the streets of the city as it deems necessary for the
use of taxicabs operated in the city. The Council shall not create an open
stand without taking into consideration the need for the stands by the
companies and the convenience to the general public. The Council shall
prescribe the number of cabs that shall occupy the open stands. The Council
shall not create an open stand in front of any place of business where the
abutting property owners object to the same or where the stand would tend to
create a traffic hazard.
   (2)   Use by taxicabs. Open stands shall be used by different drivers on a
first come first served basis. The driver shall pull on to the open stand from
the rear and shall advance forward as the cabs ahead pull off. Drivers shall
stay within five feet of their cabs; they shall not solicit passengers or
engage in loud or boisterous talk while at an open stand. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed as preventing a passenger from boarding the cab of
his or her choice that is parked at open stands.
   (3)   Use by other vehicles. Private vehicles or other vehicles for hire
shall not at any time occupy any space of the streets which has been designated
by the Council as an open taxicab stand.
(Prior Code, § 603.10)
CHAPTER 604: TAXICAB DRIVERS
Section
   
604.01   Definition
   
604.02   License required
   
604.03   Eligibility
   
604.04   Identification
§ 604.01 DEFINITION.
   TAXICAB DRIVER means any person who drives a taxicab within the city,
whether the owner of the taxicab or an employee of the taxicab owner or
operator.
(Prior Code, § 604.01)
§ 604.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall act as a taxicab driver unless he or she has been issued a
taxicab driver's license.
(Prior Code, § 604.02)
§ 604.03 ELIGIBILITY.
   (1)   Driver's license. A taxicab driver's license shall not be issued to
any person who does not hold a valid Minnesota driver's license.
   (2)   Investigation. Prior to the issuance of any taxicab driver's license,
the Chief of Police shall investigate the applicant and shall furnish the
Council with a report of the results of the investigation, together with his or
her recommendation as to whether a license should be issued to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 604.03)
§ 604.04 IDENTIFICATION.
   (1)   While driving a taxicab, every taxicab driver shall at all times have
in his or her possession his or her valid taxicab driver's license and shall
wear on his or her person a visible identification badge.
   (2)   This section shall not apply to any person driving a taxicab within
the city as permitted by §
603.02(2).
(Prior Code, § 604.04)
CHAPTER 605: CONTRACTORS
Section
   
605.01   Contractors defined
   
605.02   License required
   
605.03   Application
   
605.04   Scope of license
   
605.05   Bond
   
605.06   Insurance
   
605.07   Revocation
   
605.08   Liability
   
605.09   Waiver
§ 605.01 CONTRACTORS DEFINED.
   CONTRACTORS means any person engaged in the following businesses or work:
   (1)   General contracting, including erection, alteration or repair of
structures;
   (2)   Masonry, cement work, cement block work, block laying or brick work;
   (3)   Heating and ventilating;
   (4)   Roofing;
   (5)   Plastering, stucco work and sheetrock taping;
   (6)   Excavating, including excavations for footings and basements and
grading of lots;
   (7)   Wrecking of structures;
   (8)   Fencing, including erection, repair and alteration of all fences; and
   (9)   Asphalt work.
(Prior Code, § 605.01)
§ 605.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of or act as a contractor unless he
or she has been issued a contractor's license; provided, this shall not apply
to persons who produce a product within the city for use outside the city. The
provisions of §§
605.01 through
605.09 shall not be construed as preventing any qualified licensee from
performing the work by an employee under his or her supervision and control,
nor a property owner from performing his or her own work provided all
provisions of the State Building Code are complied with. The requirements of
this chapter shall not apply to a residential building contractor, residential
re-modeler or other persons who are required to be licensed by the state under
the provisions of M.S. §§ 326.83 to 326.991, as they may be amended from time
to time.
(Prior Code, § 605.02)
§ 605.03 APPLICATION.
   Each application for a contractor's license shall state the type of work for
which a license is requested.
(Prior Code, § 605.03)
§ 605.04 SCOPE OF LICENSE.
   Each contractor's license shall authorize the licensee to engage only in the
type of work listed on his or her application. A general contractor's license
shall authorize the licensee to perform all of the work included in his or her
general contract, including all work listed in §
605.01, divisions (1) through (9), provided that the person actually performing
work is in the regular employ of the general contractor and is qualified as
required by state law to perform work. The general contractor shall be
responsible for the quality and completeness of all the work so performed.
(Prior Code, § 605.04)
§ 605.05 BOND.
   No contractor's license shall be issued unless the applicant has filed with
the city a bond in the amount of $5,000 conditioned upon compliance with the
provisions of applicable ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 605.05)
§ 605.06 INSURANCE.
   (1)   No contractor's license shall be issued unless the applicant has filed
with the city certificates evidencing the holding of public liability insurance
in the minimum limits of $100,000 per person and $300,000 per accident for
bodily injury and $50,000 for property damage; and a certificate of worker's
compensation insurance as required by law.
   (2)   All insurance policies required under this section shall contain
provisions that the policies may not be canceled without ten days prior written
notice mailed to the city.
(Prior Code, § 605.06)
§ 605.07 REVOCATION.
   The provisions of §
601.06 notwithstanding, any contractor's license may be revoked for just cause
after a public hearing with four days prior written notice to the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 605.07)
§ 605.08 LIABILITY.
   This chapter shall not be construed to affect the responsibility or
liability of any party owning, operating or installing the work listed in §
605.01 for damages to persons or property caused by any defect therein. The
city shall not be construed to have assumed any liability by reason of the
licensing of persons engaged in the work.
(Prior Code, § 605.08)
§ 605.09 WAIVER.
   The Council may by resolution waive the requirements of all or any portion
of this chapter in the event of a declared emergency, for the period of time as
the Council may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 605.09)
CHAPTER 606: LARGE ASSEMBLIES
Section
   
606.01   Purpose
   
606.02   Large assemblies defined
   
606.03   License required
   
606.04   Application
   
606.05   Requirements
   
606.06   Conditions
   
606.07   Variances
   
606.08   Revocation
   
606.09   Enforcement
§ 606.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the assemblies of large numbers
of people, in excess of those normally needing the health, sanitary, fire,
police, transportation and utility services regularly provided in the city, in
order that the health, safety and welfare of all persons in the city, residents
and visitors alike, may be protected.
(Prior Code, § 606.01)
§ 606.02 LARGE ASSEMBLIES DEFINED.
   LARGE ASSEMBLY means a company of persons gathered together at any location
at any single time for any purpose, which actually exceeds or can reasonably be
anticipated to exceed 1,000 persons, and which continues or can reasonably be
anticipated to continue for eight or more consecutive hours. LARGE ASSEMBLY
shall not include assemblies at any regularly established, permanent place of
worship, stadium, athletic field, arena, auditorium, coliseum or other similar
permanently established place of assembly, provided the assembly does not
exceed by more than 250 people the maximum seating capacity of the structure
where the assembly is held. LARGE ASSEMBLY shall not include government-
sponsored fairs held on regularly established fairgrounds; nor assemblies
required to be licensed by other ordinances or statutes.
(Prior Code, § 606.02)
§ 606.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall permit, maintain, promote, conduct, advertise, act as
entrepreneur, undertake, organize, manage or sell or give tickets for or to a
large assembly, whether on public or private property, unless a license to hold
the large assembly has been issued by the Council. A license for a large
assembly shall permit any person to engage in any lawful activity in connection
with the holding of the large assembly. A separate license shall be required
for each day and for each location of a large assembly.
(Prior Code, § 606.03)
§ 606.04 APPLICATION.
   (1)   General. Application for a large assembly license shall be made at
least 30 days in advance of the large assembly. The application shall contain a
statement made under oath or affirmation that all the statements in the
application are true and correct to the best knowledge of the applicant. The
application shall be signed and sworn to or affirmed by the individual making
the application in the care of a corporation, by all partners in the case of a
partnership, and by all officers of an unincorporated association, society or
group, or if there are no officers, by all members of the association, society
or group.
   (2)   Contents. In addition to the information required by §
601.02, each application shall contain and disclose the following:
      (a)   The name, date of birth, fingerprints, residence and mailing
address of all persons required to sign the application by division (1), and in
the case of a corporation, a certified copy of the articles of incorporation
together with the same, date of birth, residence and mailing address of each
person holding 10% or more of the stock of the corporation;
      (b)   The address and legal description of all property upon which the
assembly is to be held, together with the name, residence and mailing address
of the record owner(s) of all property;
      (c)   Proof of ownership of all property upon which the assembly is to be
held or a statement made upon oath or affirmation by the record owner(s) of all
property that the applicant has permission to use the property for an assembly
of 1,000 or more persons;
      (d)   The nature or purpose of the assembly;
      (e)   The total number of days and/or hours during which the assembly is
to last;
      (f)   The maximum number of persons which the applicant shall permit to
assemble at any time, not to exceed the maximum number which can reasonably
assemble at the location of the assembly, in consideration of the nature of the
assembly, or the maximum number of persons allowed to sleep within the
boundaries of the location of the assembly by the zoning regulations of the
city if the assembly is to continue overnight;
      (g)   The maximum number of tickets to be sold, if any;
      (h)   The plans of the applicant to limit the maximum number of people
permitted to assemble;
      (i)   The plans for fencing the location of the assembly and the gates
contained in the fence;
      (j)   The plans for supplying potable water including the source, amount
available and location of outlets;
      (k)   The plans for providing toilet and lavatory facilities including
the source, number and location, type and means of disposing of waste
deposited;
      (l)   The plans for holding, collection and disposing of solid waste
material;
      (m)   The plans to provide for medical facilities including the location
and construction of a medical structure, the names and addresses and hours of
availability of physicians and nurses and provisions for emergency ambulance
service;
      (n)   The plans, if any, to illuminate the location of the assembly
including the source and amount of power and the location of lights;
      (o)   The plans for parking vehicles including size and location of lots,
points of highway access and interior roads, including routes between highway
access and parking lots;
      (p)   The plans for telephone service including the source, number and
location of telephones;
      (q)   The plans for camping facilities, if any, including facilities
available and their location;
      (r)   The plans for security including the number of guards, their
deployment and their names, addresses, credentials and hours of availability;
      (s)   The plans for fire protection as may be required by §
606.05(11);
      (t)   The plans for sound control and sound amplification, if any,
including number, location and power of amplifiers and speakers;
      (u)   The plans for food concessions and concessionaires who will be
allowed to operate on the grounds including the names and addresses of all
concessionaires and their license or permit numbers; and
      (v)   The plans for area traffic control for egress from and exit onto
public roads or highways.
   (3)   Action on application. Each application for a large assembly license
shall be processed within 20 days of receipt and shall be approved if all
conditions and requirements of this chapter are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 606.04)
§ 606.05 REQUIREMENTS.
   The Council shall cause an inspection to be made ten days prior to the start
of the large assembly to determine if the conditions and requirements of this
chapter are complied with. No license shall be issued unless the following
requirements are met:
   (1)   A fence or barrier (sufficient to prevent ingress/exit except at
established gates) completely enclosing the proposed location of sufficient
height and strength to prevent people in excess of the maximum permissible
number from gaining access to the assembly grounds, which shall have sufficient
entrances and exits to allow easy movement into and out of the assembly grounds
and provide traffic control onto established public road systems;
   (2)   Potable water, meeting all federal and state requirements for sanitary
quality, sufficient to provide drinking water for the maximum number of people
to be assembled at the rate of at least one gallon per person per day and where
the assembly is to continue for more than 12 hours, water for bathing at the
rate of at least ten gallons per person per day, or portion of a day;
   (3)   Separate enclosed toilets for males and females, meeting all state and
local specifications, conveniently located throughout the grounds, sufficient
to provide facilities for the maximum number of people to be assembled, in
accordance with the Minnesota State Board of Health Regulations and Standards;
   (4)   A sanitary method of disposing of solid waste, in compliance with
state and local laws and regulations, sufficient to dispose of the solid waste
production of the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at
least two and one-half pounds of solid waste per person per day, together with
a plan for holding and collecting all waste at least once each day of the
assembly and sufficient trash containers and personnel to perform tasks;
   (5)   Physicians and nurses licensed to practice in Minnesota sufficient to
provide the average medical care enjoyed by residents of Minnesota for the
maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least one physician
and nurse for every 1,000 people, together with an enclosed covered structure
where treatment may be rendered, containing separately enclosed treatment rooms
for each physician and at least two emergency ambulances with attendants for
each 1,000 people;
   (6)   If the assembly is to continue during hours of darkness, illumination
sufficient to light the entire area of the assembly at the rate of at least
five foot candles, but not to shine unreasonably beyond the boundaries of the
enclosed location of the assembly;
   (7)   A free parking area inside of the assembly grounds sufficient to
provide parking space for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the
rate of at least one parking space for every four persons;
   (8)   Telephones connected to outside lines sufficient to provide service to
the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least one
separate line and receiver for each 500 persons;
   (9)   If the assembly is to continue overnight, camping facilities in
compliance with all state and local requirements as set forth in Minnesota
Statutes and regulations and ordinances of this political subdivision,
sufficient to provide camping accommodations for the maximum number of people
to be assembled; all persons sleeping during night hours shall so sleep only in
a tent, camper, endorsed trailer, mobile home, building or similar enclosed
item;
   (10)   Security and traffic and narcotics control plan which will meet the
requirements of local authorities and the Minnesota Department of Public
Safety; regularly employed off-duty Minnesota law enforcement officers or
protective agents licensed in Minnesota, sufficient to provide adequate
security for the maximum number of people to be assembled; at least one
security guard for every 100 people will be provided for the first 1,000 people
to assemble; for assemblies of more than 1,000 people, additional security
guards will be provided at the rate of one for each 250 people or major
fraction thereof;
   (11)   Fire protection shall be provided by the sponsor which may include,
but not be limited to, the following: fire alarms, extinguishing devices, fire
lanes and shall be sufficient to meet all applicable state laws and local
regulations which are in effect, or may be set forth by the political
subdivision concerned; and sufficient emergency personnel to efficiently
operate the required equipment will be provided by the sponsor;
   (12)   All reasonably necessary precautions to ensure that the sound of the
assembly will not carry unreasonably beyond the enclosed boundaries of the
location of the assembly;
   (13)   Administrative control center with telephones where local authority
can contact the sponsors and law enforcement personnel inside the assembly
area; and
   (14)   A bond, filed with the City Clerk, either in cash or underwritten by
a surety company licensed to do business in Minnesota in the minimum amount of
$300,000 which shall indemnify and hold harmless this political subdivision or
any of its agents, officers, servants and employees from any liability or
causes of action which might arise by reason of granting this license, payment
of employees or services rendered by the granting authority, and from any cost
incurred in cleaning up any waste material produced or left by the assembly.
(Prior Code, § 606.05)
§ 606.06 CONDITIONS.
   (1)   Number. A licensee shall permit the assembly of only the maximum
number of people stated in the license. The licensee shall not sell tickets to
or permit to assemble at the licensed location more than the maximum
permissible number of people.
   (2)   Noise. The licensee shall not permit the sound of the assembly to
carry unreasonably beyond the enclosed boundaries of the location of the
assembly.
(Prior Code, § 606.06)
§ 606.07 VARIANCES.
   The Council may by resolution passed by unanimous vote, grant a variance
from any of the provisions of §§
606.01 through
606.09, where granting a variance will not deter from the basic purpose and
intent of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 606.07)
§ 606.08 REVOCATION.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
601.06, a large assembly license may be revoked by the Council at any time if
any of the conditions or requirements of this chapter are not complied with, or
if any condition or requirement previously met ceases to be complied with;
provided that the applicant shall be given reasonable notice as may be possible
of any pending action on revocation, the reasons therefor, and the time and
place of the Council meeting at which revocation shall be considered. The
applicant shall be given an opportunity to be heard by the Council at that
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 606.08)
§ 606.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (1)   Injunction. The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by
injunction in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (2)   Nuisance. The holding of a large assembly in violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated.
   (3)   Bond. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, or who
violates any condition upon which he or she is issued a license shall forfeit
an appropriate amount from the bond required by §
606.05(14). No portion of the bond shall be released to the sponsors unless and
until all provisions of the license agreement have been met.
   (4)   Other. The remedies listed in divisions (1) through (3) are in
addition to any other remedies provided by law or this code for enforcement of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 606.09)
CHAPTER 607: LODGING
Section
   
607.01   Purpose
   
607.02   Definitions
   
607.03   Imposition of lodging tax
   
607.04   Collections
   
607.05   Advertising no lodging tax
   
607.06   Payment and returns
   
607.07   Examination of return, adjustments, notices and demands
   
607.08   Refunds
   
607.09   Failure to file return
   
607.10   Penalties
   
607.11   Application of payments
   
607.12   Enforcement
   
607.13   Administration of lodging tax
   
607.14   Examination of records
   
607.15   Violations
   
607.16   Appeal
   
607.17   Use of proceeds
   
607.18   Effective date
§ 607.01 PURPOSE.
   The Legislature has authorized the imposition of a tax upon lodging at the
hotel, motel, rooming house, tourist court or other use of space by a transient
and the imposition of such a tax would provide funding for a convention and
tourism bureau to promote the city as a tourist and convention center.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 607.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Lino Lakes.
   DIRECTOR. The Finance Director of the city.
   LODGER. The person obtaining lodging from an operator.
   LODGING. The furnishing for a consideration of lodging by a hotel, motel,
rooming house, tourist court, resort, bed and breakfast, private campground
except where lodging shall be for a continuous period of 30 days or more to the
same lodger(s). The furnishing of rooms owned by religious, educational or
nonprofit organizations for self-sponsored activities shall not constitute
LODGING for purposes of this chapter.
   LODGING TAX. A tax imposed by the city of 3% of the gross receipts from the
furnishing for consideration of lodging.
   OPERATOR. The person who provides lodging to others or any officer, agent or
employee of such person.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
estate, trustee, executor, administrator, assignee, syndicate, lessee, or
receiver or any other combination of individuals. Whenever the term PERSON is
used in any provision of this chapter prescribing and imposing a penalty, the
term as applied to a corporation, association, or partnership shall mean the
officers, or partners thereof as the case may be.
   RENT. The gross receipts from the furnishing of lodging.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 607.03 IMPOSITION OF LODGING TAX.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 469.190, there is hereby imposed a 3% lodging tax on the
gross receipts from the furnishing for consideration of lodging within the City
of Lino Lakes on or after January 1, 2010. The lodging tax shall be stated and
charged separately and shall be collected by the operator from the lodger. The
tax collected by the operator shall be a debt owed by the operator to the city
and shall be extinguished only by payment to the city. In no case shall the
lodging tax imposed by this section upon an operator exceed the amount of
lodging tax that the operator is authorized and required by this chapter to
collect from the lodger.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 607.04 COLLECTIONS.
   Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter at the time the
rent is paid. The tax collections shall be deemed to be held in trust by the
operator for the city. The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the
rent charged for the lodging.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 607.05 ADVERTISING NO LODGING TAX.
   It shall be unlawful for any operator to advertise or hold out or state to
the public or any customer, directly or indirectly, that the lodging tax or any
part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not
be added to the rent or that, if added, it or any part thereof will be
refunded. In computing the tax to be collected, amounts of tax less than $.01
shall be considered an additional cent.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 607.06 PAYMENT AND RETURNS.
   (1)   The taxes imposed by this chapter shall be paid by the operator to the
city monthly not later than 25 days after the end of the month in which the
taxes were collected. At the time of payment, the operator shall submit a
return upon such forms and containing such information as the Director may
require. At the minimum, the return shall contain the following information:
      (a)   The total amount of rent collected for lodging during the period
covered by the return;
      (b)   The amount of lodging tax required to be collected and due for the
period;
      (c)   The signature of the person filing the return or that of his or her
agent duly authorized in writing;
      (d)   The period covered by the return;
      (e)   The amount of uncollectible rental charges subject to the lodging
tax.
   (2)   The operator may offset against the lodging taxes payable with respect
to any reporting period, the amount of taxes imposed by this chapter previously
paid as a result of any transaction the consideration for which became
uncollectible during such reporting period, hut only in proportion to the
portion of such consideration which became uncollectible.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 607.07 EXAMINATION OF RETURN, ADJUSTMENTS, NOTICES AND DEMANDS.
   The Director may rely upon the Minnesota sales tax return filed by the
operator with the State of Minnesota in determining the accuracy of a return
filed under this chapter. However, the Director shall be authorized to make any
investigation or examination of the records and accounts of the person making
the return if the Director reasonably determines that such steps are necessary
for determining the correctness of the return. The lodging tax computed on the
basis of such examination shall be the lodging tax due. If the lodging tax due
is found to be greater than that paid, such excess shall be paid to the city
within ten days after receipt of a notice thereof given either personally or
sent by registered mail to the address shown on the return. If the lodging tax
paid is greater than the lodging tax found to be due, the excess shall be
refunded to the person who paid the lodging tax to the city within ten days
after determination of such refund.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 607.08 REFUNDS.
   Any person may apply to the Director for a refund of taxes paid for a
prescribed period in excess of the amount legally due for that period, provided
that no application for refund shall be considered unless filed within one year
after such tax was paid, or within one year from the filing of the return,
whichever period is the longer. The Director shall examine the claim and make
and file written findings thereon denying or allowing the claim in whole or in
part and shall mail a notice thereof by registered mail to such person at the
address stated upon the return. If such claim is allowed in whole or in part,
the Director shall credit the amount of the allowance against any taxes due
under this chapter from the claimant and the balance of said allowance, if any,
shall be paid by the Director to the claimant.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 607.09 FAILURE TO FILE RETURN.
   (1)   The Director shall notify any operator of a facility who fails to file
a return or who files an incorrect, false or fraudulent return of such fact.
Such operator shall file such return or corrected return within five days of
the receipt of such written notice and pay any lodging tax due thereon. If such
persons shall fail to file such return or corrected return, the Director shall
make a return or corrected return for such person from such knowledge and
information as the Director can obtain, and assess the lodging tax due on the
basis thereof, which said lodging tax shall be paid within five days of the
receipt of written notice and demand for such payment. Any such return or
assessment made by the Director shall be prima facie correct and valid, and
such person shall have the burden of establishing its incorrectness or
invalidity in any action or proceeding in respect thereto.
   (2)   If any portion of a tax imposed by this chapter, including penalties
thereon, is not paid within 30 days after is required to be paid, the City
Attorney may institute such legal action as may be necessary to recover the
amount due plus interest, penalties, the costs and disbursements of any action.
   (3)   Upon a showing of good cause, the Director may grant an operator one
30-day extension of time within which to file a return and make payment of
taxes as required by this chapter provided that interest during such period of
extension shall be added to the taxes due at the rate of 10% per annum.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 607.10 PENALTIES.
   (1)   Calculated penalty.  The following penalties shall apply in the given
situations:
      (a)   Failure to file a return or pay lodging tax to the city within 30
days of the due date: a penalty of 10% of the unpaid lodging tax.
      (b)   Failure to file a return or pay lodging tax imposed by the city by
more than 30 days but less than 60 days of the due date: a penalty of 15% of
the unpaid lodging tax.
      (c)   Failure to file a return or pay lodging tax imposed by the city by
more than 60 days but less than 90 days of the due date: a penalty of 20% of
the unpaid lodging tax.
      (d)   Failure to file a return or pay lodging tax imposed by the city by
more than 90 days of the due date: a penalty of 25% of the unpaid lodging tax.
   (2)   Minimum penalty. If the penalty as computed does not exceed $10, a
minimum penalty of $10 shall be assessed. The penalty shall be collected in the
same manner as the lodging tax.
   (3)   Interest. The amount of lodging tax not timely paid, together with any
penalty, shall bear interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the time such
lodging tax should have been paid until paid. Any interest and penalty shall be
added to the lodging tax and be collected as part thereof.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 607.11 APPLICATION OF PAYMENTS.
   All payments shall be credited first to penalties, next to interest and then
to the lodging tax due.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 607.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   If any portion of the lodging tax imposed by the city, including penalties
thereon, is not paid within 30 days after it is required to be paid, the City
Attorney may institute legal action as may be necessary to recover the amount
due plus interest penalties, the costs and disbursement of any action.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 607.13 ADMINISTRATION OF LODGING TAX.
   The Director is authorized to confer with the Minnesota Commissioner of
Revenue to the end that an agreement between the city and the Commissioner of
Revenue may be entered into for the purpose of providing for the administration
and collection of the taxes imposed by this chapter. Such an agreement shall
not become effective until presented to the Council for its approval and when
so approved the tax imposed by this chapter shall be collected and administered
pursuant to the terms of said agreement.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 607.14 EXAMINATION OF RECORDS.
   The Director and those persons acting on behalf of the director authorized
in writing by the Director may examine the books, papers, and records of any
operator of a facility subject to the lodging tax imposed by the city in order
to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return was made, to
ascertain the lodging tax imposed by the city through this chapter. Every such
operator is directed and required to give the Director the means, facilities
and opportunity for such examination and investigations as are hereby
authorized.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 607.15 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who shall willfully fail to make a return required by this
chapter, or who shall fail to pay the tax after written demand for payment, or
who shall fail to remit the taxes collected or any penalty or interest imposed
by this chapter after written demand for such payment or who shall refuse to
permit the Director or any duly authorized agents or employees to examine the
books, records and papers under his or her control, or who shall willfully make
any incomplete, false or fraudulent return shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 607.16 APPEAL.
   (1)   Any operator aggrieved by any notice, order or determination made by
the Director under this chapter may file with the director a petition for
review of such notice, order or determination detailing the operator's reasons
for contesting the notice, order or determination. The petition shall contain
the name of the petitioner, the petitioner's address and location of the
lodging subject to the order, notice or determination.
   (2)   The petition for review shall be filed with the City Clerk within ten
days after the notice, order or determination for which review is sought has
been mailed or served upon the person requesting review.
   (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the City Administrator, or his or her
designee, shall set a date for a hearing and shall give the petitioner at least
five days prior written notice of the date, time and place of such hearing.
   (4)   At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to show
cause why the notice, order or determination should be modified or withdrawn.
The hearing shall be conducted by the City Administrator or his or her
designee, provided only that the person conducting the hearing shall not have
participated in the drafting of the order, notice or determination for which
the review is sought. The person conducting the hearing shall make written
findings of fact and conclusions based upon the applicable sections of this
chapter and evidence presented. The person conducting the hearing may affirm,
reverse or modify the notice, order or determination made by the Director.
   (5)   Any decision rendered by the City Administrator pursuant to this
division may be appealed to the City Council. A petitioner seeking to appeal a
decision must file a written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within ten
days after the decision has been mailed to the petitioner. The matter will
thereupon be placed on the council agenda as soon as is practical. The City
Council shall make written findings of fact and conclusions based upon this
chapter and the evidence presented. The City Council may modify, reverse or
affirm the notice, or order or determination that is subject to the review. All
requests for review must be made within one year of the date of notice, order
or determination.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 607.17 USE OF PROCEEDS.
   The 95% of the gross proceeds obtained from the collection of lodging taxes
shall be used by the city in accordance with M.S. § 469.190 as the same may be
amended from time to time to fund a local convention or tourism bureau for the
purpose of marketing and promoting the city as a tourist or convention center.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 607.18 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The lodging tax imposed by this chapter shall apply to all lodging furnished
on or after January 1, 2010.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 10-12-2009)
CHAPTER 608: PUBLIC DANCING
Section
   
608.01   Definition
   
608.02   License required
   
608.03   Applications
   
608.04   Conditions
§ 608.01 DEFINITION.
   PUBLIC DANCE includes wherein the public may participate by payment,
directly or indirectly, of an admission fee or price for dancing, or a fee for
membership in a club, and shall include any manner of holding a dance which may
be participated in by the public through the payment of money, directly or
indirectly. PUBLIC DANCE shall not include private dance where admission is
obtained by prior invitation such as wedding dances and other similar dances.
(Prior Code, § 608.01)
§ 608.02 LICENSE REQUIRED. 
   No person shall hold, maintain or permit any public dance without having
obtained a public dance license.
(Prior Code, § 608.02)
§ 608.03 APPLICATIONS.
   In addition to the information required by §
601.02, each application for a public dance license shall state whether the
application is for an annual license or for a single dance. If the application
is for a license for a single dance, it shall state the date proposed.
(Prior Code, § 608.03)
§ 608.04 CONDITIONS.
   (1)   Peace officer. There shall be in attendance at each public dance a
peace officer approved by the Chief of Police.
   (2)   Other. Every public dance shall be conducted in accordance with all
applicable statutes, regulations and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 608.04)
CHAPTER 609: RESERVED
CHAPTER 610: SHOOTING RANGE
Section
   
610.01   License required
   
610.02   Requirements
   
610.03   Conditions
   
610.04   Revocation
§ 610.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall own or operate a rifle or shooting range unless he or she
has been issued a shooting range license.
(Prior Code, § 610.01)
§ 610.02 REQUIREMENTS.
   No license shall be issued unless the Council determines that the proposed
range is safe and will be operated in a safe manner.
(Prior Code, § 610.02)
§ 610.03 CONDITIONS.
   The Council may by resolution restrict the use of any licensed shooting
range during specified hours to prevent nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 610.03)
§ 610.04 REVOCATION.
   In addition to the grounds stated in §
601.06, and in accordance with the procedures established by §
601.06, a shooting range license may be revoked for violation of a restriction
on hours imposed pursuant to §
610.03, or if the license has allowed unsafe conditions to exist on the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 610.04)
CHAPTER 611: LAWFUL GAMBLING
Section
   
611.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
611.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
611.03   Purpose
   
611.04   Definitions
   
611.05   Organizations eligible for lawful gambling
   
611.06   Limitation of gambling licenses
   
611.07   Council approval
   
611.08   Application and local approval of premises license
   
611.09   Notification of material changes to application
   
611.10   [Reserved]
   
611.11   Profits from gambling
   
611.12   Records and reports
   
611.13   Management
   
611.14   Hours of operation
   
611.15   Penalty
§ 611.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   Chapter 349 of the Minnesota Statutes is hereby adopted by reference the
same as if it were fully set forth herein. The provisions of M.S. Ch. 349, as
they may be amended from time to time, with reference to the definition of
terms, conditions of operation, provisions relating to sales, and all other
matters pertaining to lawful gambling are hereby adopted by reference and are
made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of the
Council that all future amendments of M.S. Ch. 349, as they may be amended from
time to time, are hereby adopted by reference or referenced if they had been in
existence at the time this chapter was adopted.
§ 611.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 349.213, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on gambling within its limits beyond those contained in
M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 611.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate lawful gambling within the City
of Lino Lakes, to prevent its commercialization, to ensure the integrity of
operations, and to provide for the use of net profits only for lawful purposes.
§ 611.04 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 349.12, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter.
   BOARD. The State of Minnesota Gambling Control Board.
   CITY. The City of Lino Lakes.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Lino Lakes.
   LICENSED ORGANIZATION. An organization licensed by the Board
   TRADE AREA. The area of the city as well as the area of each city and
township contiguous to the city.
§ 611.05 ORGANIZATIONS ELIGIBLE FOR LAWFUL GAMBLING.
   (1)   An organization shall not be considered for local consent to conduct
lawful gambling in the city unless the organization meets all of the
requirements imposed by state law and unless the organization meets at least
one of the following conditions:
      (a)   The organization has at least 15 members that are residents of the
city;
      (b)   The physical site for the organization headquarters or the
registered business office of the organization is located within the city and
has been located within the city for at least two years immediately preceding
the application for a license;
      (c)   The organization owns real property within the city and the lawful
gambling is conducted on the property owned by the organization within the
city; or
      (d)   The physical site where the organization regularly holds its
meetings and conducts its activities, other than lawful gambling and fund
raising, is in the city and has been located within the city for at least two
years immediately preceding application for a license.
   (2)   Any organization that purports to meet one of the conditions set forth
above shall certify in writing on its application which condition or conditions
are being met.
§ 611.06 LIMITATION OF GAMBLING LICENSES.
   No organization shall be considered for local consent to conduct gambling in
more than three establishments within the city. Further, for local consent,
only one organization shall be permitted to operate or sell lawful gambling
devices at an owned or leased establishment.
§ 611.07 COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   Lawful gambling, as authorized by M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.23, inclusive,
as they may be amended from time to time, shall not be conducted unless
approved by the Council, subject to the provisions of this ordinance and state
law.
§ 611.08 APPLICATION AND LOCAL APPROVAL OF PREMISES LICENSE.
   (1) Application. Any organization seeking to obtain a premises license or
renew a premises license from the Board shall file with the City Clerk an
executed, completed duplicate application together with all exhibits and
documents.
   (2)   Police Department review. Upon receipt of an application for issuance
or renewal of a premises license, the City Clerk shall transmit the application
to the Chief of Police for review and recommendation. The Chief of Police shall
provide a recommendation as soon as possible but in no event later than 30 days
following receipt of the application.
   (3)   Council consideration. The Council shall, by resolution, approve or
disapprove the application within 60 days of receipt of the application.
   (4)   Disapproval. The Council may disapprove an application or issuance or
renewal of a premises license for any of the following reasons:
      (a)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last three years;
      (b)   Violation by the on-sale establishment or organization leasing the
premises for gambling, of any state statute, state rule or city ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including but not limited to
laws relating to alcoholic beverages, gambling, controlled substances,
suppression of vice and protection of public safety within the last three
years; and
      (c)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to the
health, safety and welfare of the community.
(Am. Ord. 03-16, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 611.09 NOTIFICATION OF MATERIAL CHANGES TO APPLICATION.
   An organization holding a state issued premises license shall notify the
city in writing whenever any material change in the information submitted in
the application occurs within ten days of the change.
(Am. Ord. 03-16, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 611.10 [RESERVED].
§ 611.11 PROFITS FROM GAMBLING.
   During any year that an eligible organization is licensed to conduct
gambling events, not less than 50% of the net profits from the operation of
gambling by charitable organization shall be used for charitable purposes
directly benefiting residents of the trade area, which shall be the city and
every adjacent city and township. A report of the disposition of the gambling
funds shall be provided to the City Clerk upon the city’s request.
(Am. Ord. 09-17, passed 9-25-2017)
§ 611.12 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   All qualified organizations operating gambling devices in the city shall
keep monthly financial records of gambling proceeds and disbursements.
(Am. Ord. 09-17, passed 9-25-2017)
§ 611.13 MANAGEMENT.
   All gambling operations must be managed by a bona fide member of the
licensed organization.
§ 611.14 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Lawful gambling shall not be conducted between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:
00 a.m. on any day of the week.
§ 611.15 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 612: PAWNBROKERS; PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS; SECONDHAND GOODS DEALERS
Section
   
612.01   Purpose
   
612.02   Definitions
   
612.03   License required
   
612.04   License classifications
   
612.05   License fees
   
612.06   Investigation fee
   
612.07   Expiration of license
   
612.08   Application required
   
612.09   Bond required
   
612.10   Records required
   
612.11   Daily reports to Police
   
612.12   Receipt required
   
612.13   Redemption period
   
612.14   Holding period
   
612.15   Police order to hold property
   
612.16   Inspection of items
   
612.17   Label required
   
612.18   Prohibited acts
   
612.19   Denial, suspension or revocation
   
612.20   Business at only one place
   
612.21   Separability
§ 612.01 PURPOSE.
   (1)   The City Council finds that use of services provided by pawnbrokers
provides an opportunity for the commission of crimes and their concealment
because pawn businesses have the ability to receive and transfer property
stolen by others easily and quickly. The City Council also finds that consumer
protection regulation is warranted in transactions involving pawnbrokers. The
purpose of this chapter is to prevent pawn businesses from being used as
facilities for the commission of crimes and to assure that the businesses
comply with basic consumer protection standards, thereby protecting the public
health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the city.
   (2)   To help the Police Department better regulate pawn businesses,
decrease and stabilize costs associated with the regulation of the pawn
industry and increase identification of criminal activities in the pawn
industry through the timely collection and sharing of pawn transaction
information, this chapter also implements and establishes the requires use of
the Automated Pawn System (APS).
(Prior Code, § 612.01)
§ 612.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLABLE TRANSACTION. (Pawnbroker) Every reportable transaction conducted by
a pawnbroker except redemptions, renewals or extensions of existing pawns on
items previously reported and continuously in the licensee's possession is a
BILLABLE TRANSACTION.
   BILLABLE TRANSACTION. (Secondhand Dealer) Every reportable transaction
conducted by a secondhand dealer.
   CLASS A SECONDHAND GOODS DEALER. Any person who annually engages in 1,800 or
more transactions involving the buying and/or selling of secondhand items.
   CLASS B SECONDHAND GOODS DEALER. Any person who annually engages in more
than 60 but fewer than 1,800 transactions involving the buying and/or selling
of secondhand items.
   CLASS C SECONDHAND GOODS DEALER. Any person who annually engages in 60 or
fewer transactions involving the buying and/or selling of secondhand items.
   ISSUING AUTHORITY. The City of Lino Lakes.
   ITEM CONTAINING PRECIOUS METAL. An item made in whole or in part of metal
and containing more than 1% by weight of silver, gold or platinum.
   MINOR. Any natural person under the age of 18 years.
   PAWNBROKER. Any natural person, partnership or corporation, either as
principal, or agent or employee thereof, who loans money on deposit or pledge
of personal property or other valuable thing, or who deals in the purchasing of
personal property or other valuable thing on condition of selling the same back
again at a stipulated price, or who loans money secured by chattel mortgage on
personal property, taking possession of the property or any part thereof so
mortgaged. To the extent that a pawnbroker's business includes buying personal
property previously used, rented or leased, or selling it on consignment, the
provisions of this chapter shall be applicable.
   PRECIOUS METAL DEALER. Any person engaging in the business of buying coins
or secondhand items containing precious metal, including, but not limited to,
jewelry watches, eating utensils, candlesticks and religious and decorative
objects. Persons conducting the following transactions shall not be deemed to
be precious metal dealers:
      (a)   Transactions at occasional "garage" or "yard" sales or estate sales
or farm auctions, except that precious metal dealers must comply with the
requirements of M.S. § 325F.734 to 325F.742, as it may be amended from time to
time, for these transactions;
      (b)   Securities transactions regulated by M.S. Ch. 80A, as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (c)   Transactions regulated by the Federal Commodity Futures Commission
Act;
      (d)   Transactions involving the purchase of precious metal grindings,
filings, slag, sweeps, scraps or dust from an industrial manufacturer, dental
lab, dentist or agent thereof;
      (e)   Transactions involving the purchase of photographic film, such as
lithographic and x-ray film or silver residue to flake recovered in
lithographic and x-ray film processing;
      (f)   Transactions involving bullion or ingots;
      (g)   Transactions in which the secondhand item containing precious metal
is exchanged for a new item containing precious metal and the value of the new
item exceeds the value of the secondhand item, except that a person who is a
precious metal dealer by engaging in a transaction which is not exempted by
this section must comply with the requirements of M.S. §§ 325F.734 to 325F.742,
as they may be amended from time to time; and
      (h)   Transactions between precious metal dealers if both dealers are
licensed under M.S. § 325F.733, as it may be amended from time to time, or if
the seller's business is located outside of the state and the item is shipped
from outside the state to a dealer licensed under M.S. § 325F.733, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   PRECIOUS METALS. Silver, gold or platinum.
   RECEIVE. To purchase, accept for sale on consignment, broker or acquire in
trade for an item of equal or lesser value, any tangible personal property
previously owned, used, rented or leased.
   REPORTABLE TRANSACTION. (Pawnbroker) (Precious Metal Dealer) Every
transaction conducted by a pawnbroker or precious metal dealer in which
merchandise is received through a pawn, purchase, consignment or trade or in
which a pawn is renewed, extended or redeemed, is reportable except:
      (a)   The bulk purchase or consignment of new or used merchandise from a
merchant, manufacturer or wholesaler having an established permanent place of
business and the retail sale of the merchandise, provided the pawnbroker must
maintain a record of the purchase or consignment which describes each item and
must mark each item in a manner which relates it to that transaction record;
and
      (b)   Retail or wholesale sales of merchandise originally received by
pawn or purchase, and for which all applicable hold and/or redemption periods
have expired.
   REPORTABLE TRANSACTION. (Secondhand Dealer) Every transaction conducted by a
secondhand dealer in which merchandise is received is reportable except:
      (a)   The bulk purchase or consignment of new or used merchandise from a
merchant, manufacturer or wholesaler having an established permanent place of
business, and the retail sale of the merchandise, provided the secondhand
dealer must maintain a record of the purchase or consignment which described
each item, and must mark each item in a manner which relates to that
transaction record;
      (b)   Retail or wholesale sales of merchandise originally received by
pawn or purchase, and for which all applicable hold and/or redemption periods
have expired;
      (c)   The sale of secondhand goods where all of the following are
present:
         1.   The sale is held on property occupied as a dwelling by the seller
or owned, rented or leased by a charitable or political organization;
         2.   The items offered for sales are owned by the occupant;
         3.   That no sale exceeds a period of 72 consecutive hours;
         4.   That no more than two sales are held in any 12-month period; and
         5.   That none of the items offered for sale shall have been purchased
for resale or received on consignment for purpose of resale.
      (d)   Transactions conducted by a pawnbroker licensed under
Chapter 601;
      (e)   Receipt of secondhand books or magazines;
      (f)   The receipt of secondhand furniture and kitchen or laundry
appliances. For the purposes of this provision, the term furniture does not
include televisions, stereos, computers or other electronic equipment;
      (g)   The receipt of secondhand clothing and shoes except for any item
generally associated with the playing of or as equipment for any sporting event
or recreational activity; and
      (h)   The sale of goods at an auction held by a licensed auctioneer.
   SECONDHAND GOODS DEALERS. Any person engaging in the business of buying and/
or selling secondhand items, except:
      (a)   Precious metal dealers and pawn brokers;
      (b)   Persons conducting transactions at occasional "garage" or "yard"
sales or estate sales or farm auctions;
      (c)   Repurchasers of agricultural machinery or implements pursuant to
M.S. § 325E.05 or § 325E.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (d)   Recyclers, including but not limited to motor oil, aluminum, iron,
glass, plastics and paper;
      (e)   Dealers of used motor vehicles;
      (f)   Repurchasers of returned merchandise after initial retail sale from
the repurchaser;
      (g)   Dealers of secondhand clothing and linens except those dealers of
secondhand bedding must comply with M.S. §§ 325F.25 through 325F.34, as they
may be amended from time to time;
      (h)   Dealers of wire and cable regulated under M.S. § 325E.21, as it may
be amended from time to time;
      (i)   Persons making occasional private purchases and sales of secondhand
goods;
      (j)   Dealers of secondhand books, magazines, video or audio tapes,
compact disks, films or electronic game cartridges;
      (k)   Charitable organizations that take used items for no compensation;
      (l)   Dealers of furniture;
      (m)   The sale of goods at an auction held by a licensed auctioneer;
      (n)   The business of buying or selling only those secondhand goods taken
as part or full payment for new goods and where the business is incidental to
and not the primary business of a person; and
      (o)   The bulk sale of property from a merchant, manufacturer or
wholesaler having an established place of business or of goods sold at open
sale from bankrupt stock.
   TRANSACTION. The buying and/or selling of any item which has a serial number
or an operation ID number or for which compensation of $25 or more is paid.
Each item acquired from and sold to the same customer at the same time shall be
considered a separate transaction.
(Prior Code, § 612.02)
§ 612.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of pawnbroker, precious metal dealer
or second hand goods dealer at any location without license for that location.
No pawnbroker, previous metal dealer or second hand goods dealer license may be
transferred to a different location or a different person. Issuance of a
license under this chapter shall not relieve the licensee from obtaining any
other licenses required to conduct business at the same or any other locations.
(Prior Code, § 612.03) (Am. Ord. 03-16, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 612.04 LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (1)    Licenses renewed under provisions of this chapter shall be classified
according to the number of billable transactions submitted annually to the Lino
Lakes Police Department during the 12-month period ending September 30 prior to
renewal. The classifications shall be:
      (a)   Class A - Licensees that submitted 400 or more transactions; or
      (b)   Class B - Licensees that submitted fewer than 400 transactions.
   (2)    All new licenses issued pursuant to this chapter after January 1,
2000, shall be deemed to be Class A licenses and subject to all applicable fees
and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 611.04)
§ 612.05 LICENSE FEES.
   (1)   The annual license fees for pawnbrokers and precious metal dealer
licenses issued under this chapter shall be established in the fee schedule
adopted by the City Council. The annual license fee shall be payable annually
in accordance with procedures established by the Finance Director.
   (2)   The billable transaction license fee shall be classified according to
the medium by which daily reports required by § 612.10 are submitted to the
Lino Lakes Police Department. These classifications shall be as follows:
      (a)   Modem - Required of all Class A licensees, optional for Class B
licensees; and
      (b)   Manual - Required of all Class B licensees who do not fulfill Class
A reporting requirements.
   (3)   The billable transaction license fee shall reflect the cost of
processing transactions from the respective classifications and other related
regulatory expenses as determined by the City Council and shall be reviewed and
adjusted, if necessary, at least every six months. Licensees shall be notified
in writing 30 days before any adjustment is implemented. The billable
transaction fee for modem transactions shall not exceed the billable
transaction fee for manual transactions.
   
   (4)   Billable transaction fees shall be billed monthly and are due and
payable within 30 days. Failure to do so is a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 611.05)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 612.06 INVESTIGATION FEE.
   An applicant for a new license under this chapter, or for the renewal of an
existing license that is more than six months past due, shall deposit an amount
established in the city's fee schedule with the City Clerk at the time an
original application is submitted to cover the costs involved in verifying the
license application and to cover the expense of any investigation needed to
assure compliance with this chapter. If the investigation process is conducted
solely within the state, the fee shall be as established in the city's fee
schedule and the remainder of the deposit shall be returned to the applicant
upon completion of the investigation. If the investigation is conducted outside
the state, the issuing authority may recover the actual investigation costs not
exceeding $20,000.
(Prior Code, § 612.06)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 612.07 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   All licenses shall expire on January 1.
(Prior Code, § 612.07)
§ 612.08 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (1)   Contents. An application form provided by the City Clerk must be
completed by every applicant for a new license or for renewal of an existing
license. Every new applicant must provide all the following information:
      (a)   If the applicant is a natural person:
         1.   The name, place and date of birth, street resident address and
phone number of applicant and spouse and any business the applicant or spouse
has been engaged in over the past five years; also, last five years of
employment history; criminal history of spouse, including misdemeanor traffic
offenses and the spouse’s financial background for the past five years;
         2.   Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States or
resident alien;
         3.   Whether the applicant has ever used or has been known by a name
other than the applicant’s name, and if so, the name or names used and
information concerning dates and places used;
         4.   The name of the business if it is to be conducted under a
designation, name or style other than the name of the applicant and a certified
copy of the certificate as required by M.S. § 333.01, as it may be amended from
time to time;
         5.   The street address at which the applicant has lived during the
preceding five years;
         6.   The type, name and location of every business or occupation in
which the applicant has been engaged during the preceding five years and the
name(s) and address(es) of the applicant’s employer(s) and partner(s), if any,
for the proceeding five years;
         7.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, crime
or violation of any ordinance other than a traffic ordinance. If so, the
applicant must furnish information as to the time, place and offense of all the
convictions;
         8.   The physical description of the applicant;
         9.   Applicant’s current personal financial statement and true copies
of the applicant’s federal and state tax returns for the two years prior to
application; and
         10.   If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the
manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information
concerning each of them required in division (1)(a)1. through (1)(a)8. of this
section.
      (b)    If the applicant is a partnership:
         1.   The name(s) and address(es) of all general and limited partners
and all information concerning each general partner required in division (1) of
this section;
         2.   The name(s) of the managing partner(s) and the interest of each
partner in the licensed business;
         3.   A true copy of the partnership agreement shall be submitted with
the application. If the partnership is required to file a certificate as to a
trade name pursuant to M.S. § 333.01, as it may be amended from time to time, a
certified copy of the certificate must be attached to the application;
         4.   A true copy of the federal and state tax returns for partnership
for the two years prior to application; and
         5.   If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the
manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information
concerning each of them required in division (1)(a)1. through (1)(a)8. of
division (1)(a) of this section.
      (c)   If the applicant is a corporation or other organization:
   
         1.   The name of the corporation or business form and if incorporated
the state of incorporation;
         2.   A true copy of the certificate of incorporation, articles of
incorporation or association agreement and by-laws shall be attached to the
application. If the applicant is a foreign corporation, a certificate of
authority as required by M.S. § 303.06, as it may be amended from time to time,
must be attached;
         3.   The name of the manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the
business and all information concerning each manager, proprietor or agent
required in division (1)(a)1. through (1)(a)9. of this section; and
         4.   A list of all persons who control or own an interest in excess of
5% in the organization or business form or who are officers of the corporation
or business form and all information concerning the persons required in
division (1)(a) above. This division (1)(c)4., however, shall not apply to a
corporation whose stock is publicly traded on a stock exchange and is applying
for a license to be owned and operated by it.
      (d)   For all applicants:
         1.   Whether the applicant holds a current pawnbroker, precious metal
dealer or secondhand goods dealer license from any other governmental unit;
         2.   Whether the applicant has previously been denied, or had revoked
or suspended, a pawnbroker, precious metal dealer or secondhand goods dealer
license from any other governmental unit;
         3.   The location of the business premises;
         4.   If the applicant does not own the business premises, a true and
complete copy of the executed lease;
         5.   The legal description of the premises to be licensed;
         6.   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due
and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid, and if not paid,
the years and amounts that is unpaid;
         7.   Whenever the application is for premises either planned or under
construction or undergoing substantial alternation, the application must be
accompanied by a set of preliminary plans showing the design of the proposed
premises to be licensed;
         8.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant or the person
managing the business has been convicted of any crime, misdemeanor or violation
of any municipal ordinance, involving activities licensed under this chapter,
the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefore.
Criminal history data should be verified by the Police Department utilizing the
Minnesota Criminal Justice Information System. The applicant must consent to
allow the criminal history checks to be completed, applicant’s failure to
provide consent may disqualify the applicant from obtaining the requested
license; and
(Am. Ord. 20-01, passed 10-8-2001)
         9.   Any other information as the City Council or issuing authority
may require.
   (2)   Registration of Class C secondhand goods dealers. Persons engaged in
the business of a Class C secondhand goods dealer are exempt from the licensing
requirements of this chapter, but shall register with the Chief of Police on
forms provided for by the city. The registration shall be on going except that
a person shall file a new registration upon a change of ownership, management,
telephone number or location of the business.
   (3)   New manager.
      (a)   When a licensee places a manager in charge of a business, or if the
named manager(s) in charge of a licensed business changes, the licensee must
complete and submit the appropriate application, on forms provided by the City
Clerk within 14 days. The application must include all appropriate information
required in this section.
      (b)   Upon completion of an investigation of a new manager, the licensee
must pay an amount equal to the cost of the investigation to assure compliance
with this chapter. If the investigation process is conducted solely within the
state, the fee shall be as established in the city fee schedule. If the
investigation is conducted outside the state, the issuing authority may recover
the actual investigation costs not exceeding $10,000.
   (4)   Application execution. All applications for a license under this
chapter must be signed and sworn to under oath or affirmation by the applicant.
If the application is that of a natural person, it must be signed and sworn to
by the person; if that of a corporation, by an officer thereof; if that of a
partnership, by one of the general partners; and if that of an unincorporated
association, by the manager or managing officer thereof.
   (5)   Investigation. The police license investigator must investigate into
the truthfulness of the statements set forth in the application and shall
endorse the findings thereon. The applicant must furnish to the police license
investigator the evidence as the investigator may reasonably require in support
of the statements set forth in the application.
   (6)   Public hearing. (Pawnbroker, precious metal dealer and Class A
secondhand goods dealer.) The City Council shall conduct a hearing on the
license application within a reasonable period following receipt of the issuing
authorities report and recommendation regarding the application. At least ten
days in advance of the hearing on the application, the issuing authority shall
call as notice of a hearing to be published in the official newspaper for the
city, setting forth the day, time and place of the hearing, the name of the
applicant, the premises where the business is to be conducted, and the type of
license which is sought. At the hearing, opportunity shall be given to any
person to be heard for or against the granting 59 of the license. Additional
hearings on the application may be held if the City Council deems additional
hearings necessary. After the hearing or hearings on the application, the
Council may, in its discretion, grant or deny the application.
   (7)   Class B secondhand goods dealer. A Class B secondhand goods dealer
license shall be issued by the City Clerk upon a positive recommendation from
the Chief of Police. In the event the Chief of Police recommends denial, the
application shall be submitted to the City Council for a disposition in the
same manner as an application for a Class A secondhand goods dealer license.
Failure of the City Clerk to grant the application or submit it to the Council
within 30 days after receipt of the application by the Clerk shall be deemed a
granting of the license.
   (8)   Persons ineligible for a license. No licenses under this chapter will
be issued to an applicant who is a natural person, a partnership if the
applicant has any general partner or managing partner, a corporation or other
organization if the applicant has any manager, proprietor or agent in charge of
the business to be licensed, if the applicant:
      (a)   Is a minor at the time that the application is filed;
      (b)   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the occupation
licensed as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 2, as it may be amended from
time to time, and has not shown competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation
and present fitness to perform the duties of a licensee under this chapter as
prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (c)   Is not of good moral character or repute;
      (d)   The application is incomplete or the investigation reveals that the
applicant has not been truthful in the application process or is otherwise not
qualified for a license; or
      (e)   Holds an intoxicating liquor license under this code.
(Prior Code, § 612.08)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 612.09 BOND REQUIRED.
   Before a license will be issued, every applicant must submit a $10,000 bond
on the forms provided by the City Clerk. All bonds must be conditioned that the
principal will observe all laws in relation to pawnbrokers and the like and
will conduct business in conformity thereto, and that the principal will
account for and deliver to any person legally entitled any goods which have
come into the principal's hand through the principal's business as a
pawnbroker, or the like, or in lieu thereof, will pay the reasonable value in
money to the person. The bond shall contain a provision that no bond may be
canceled except upon 30 days written notice to the city, which shall be served
upon the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 612.09)
§ 612.10 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   At the time of any reportable transaction other than renewals, extensions or
redemptions, every licensee must immediately record in English the following
information by using ink or other indelible medium on forms or in a
computerized record approved by the police license investigator:
   (1)   A complete and accurate description of each item including, but not
limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name or other identifying mark on an item;
   (2)   The purchase price, amount of money loaned upon or pledged therefor;
   (3)   The maturity date of the transaction and the amount due, including
monthly and annual interest rates and all pawn fees and charges;
   (4)   Date, time and place the item of property was received by the
licensee;
   (5)   Full name, residence address, residence telephone number and date of
birth and accurate description of the person, from whom the item of the
property was received, including: sex, height, weight, race, color of eyes and
color of hair;
   (6)   The identification number and state of issue from any of the following
forms of identification of the seller:
      (a)   Current Minnesota driver's license;
      (b)   Current Minnesota identification card; or
      (c)   Current photo identification card issued by another state.
   (7)   The signature of the person identified in the transaction;
   (8)   Effective 60 days from the date of notification by the police license
investigator of acceptable video standards, but no sooner than October 1, 2000,
the licensee must also take a color photograph or color video recording of:
      (a)   Each customer involved in a billable transaction; and
      (b)   Every item pawned or sold that does not have a unique serial or
identification number permanently engraved or affixed. If a photograph is
taken, it must be at least two inches in length by two inches in width and must
be maintained in a manner that the photograph can be readily matched and
correlated with all other records of the transaction to which they relate. The
photographs must be available to the Chief of Police, or the Chief's designee,
upon request. The major portion of the photograph must include an identifiable
front facial close-up of the person who pawned or sold the item. Items
photographed must be accurately depicted. The licensee must inform the person
that he or she is being photographed by displaying a sign of sufficient size in
a conspicuous place in the premises. If a video photograph is taken, the video
camera must zoom in on the person pawning or selling the item so as to include
an identifiable close-up of that person's face. Items photographed by video
must be accurately depicted. Video photographs must be electronically
referenced by time and date so they can be readily matched and correlated with
all other records of the transaction to which they relate. The licensee must
inform the person that he or she is being videotaped orally and by displaying a
sign of sufficient size in a conspicuous place on the premises. The licensee
must keep the exposed videotape for three months.
   (9)   Digitized photographs. Effective 60 days from the date of notification
by the police license investigator, but no sooner than October 1, 2000, Class A
licensees must, and Class B licensees may, fulfill the color photograph
requirements in division (8) by submitting them as digital images, in a format
specified by the issuing authority, electronically cross-referenced to the
reportable transaction they are associated with. Notwithstanding the digital
images may be captured from required video recordings, this provision does not
altar or amend the requirements in division (8);
   (10)   Renewals, extensions and redemptions. For renewals, extensions and
redemptions, the licensee shall provide the original transaction identifier,
the date of the current transaction and the type of transaction; and
   (11)   Inspection of records. The records must at all reasonable times be
open to inspection by the Police Department or City Clerk's office. Data
entries shall be retained for at least three years from the date of
transaction. Entries of required digital images shall be retained a minimum of
90 days.
(Prior Code, § 612.10)
§ 612.11 DAILY REPORTS TO POLICE.
   (1)   Method. Licensees must provide to the Police Department the
information required in §
612.10 (1) through (6), in writing, on forms approved by the business day
following the date of the transaction. The licensee must display a sign of
sufficient size, and in a conspicuous place in the premises, so as to inform
all patrons that all transactions are reported to the Police Department daily.
Effective 60 days from the date of notification by the police license
investigator, but no sooner than 90 days after the police license investigator
provides licensee with computerized record standards, licensees must submit
every reportable transaction to the Police Department daily in the following
manner.
      (a)   Class A licensees must, and Class B licensees may, provide to the
Police Department the information required in §
612.10(1) through (6), by transferring it from their computer to the Police
Department via modem (computer needs and capabilities will be determined by the
Chief of Police or designee). All required records must be transmitted
completely and accurately after the close of business each day in accordance
with standards and procedures established by the issuing authority using a
dial-callback protocol or other procedures that address security concerns of
the licensees and the issuing authority. The licensee must display a sign of
sufficient size, in a conspicuous place in the premises, which informs all
patrons that all transactions are reported to the Police Department daily.
      (b)   Class A and B secondhand dealers shall maintain records and provide
those records to the Police Department pursuant to a records retention and
reporting plan approved by the Chief of Police prior to the issuance of a
license.
      (c)   Class C secondhand dealers shall report transactions to the Police
Department on forms provided by the issuing authority.
   (2)   Billable transaction fees. Licensees, regardless of class, will be
charged for billable transactions at the current rate for the medium by which
they were reported to the Police Department except:
      (a)   If a Class A licensee or a Class B licensee who has consistently
reported via modem, is unable to successfully transfer the required reports by
modem, the licensee must provide the Police Department printed copies of all
reportable transactions along with the video tape(s) for that date, by 12:00
noon the next business day, and must be charged at the modem rate for billable
transactions;
      (b)   If the problem is determined to be in the licensee's system and is
not corrected by the close of the first business day following the failure, the
licensee must provide the required reports as detailed in division(2)(a), and
must be charged at the modem rate for transactions through the close of the
first business day following the failure, and at the manual rate for all
subsequent billable transactions until the error is corrected;
      (c)   If the problem is determined to be outside the licensee's system,
the licensee must provide the required reports in detail in division (2)(a) and
will be billed at the modem rate for billable transactions until the error is
corrected;
      (d)   If a Class A licensee or a Class B licensee who has consistently
reported via modem, is unable to capture, digitize or transmit the photographs
required in §
612.10(8) and (9), the licensee must immediately take all required photographs
with a still camera, immediately develop the pictures, cross-reference the
photographs to the correct transaction, and deliver them to the Police
Department by 12:00 noon the next business day. Billable transactions will be
charged at the modem rate for transactions through the close of the first
business day following the failure and at the manual rate for all subsequent
billable transactions until the error is corrected;
      (e)   Second and subsequent occurrences of circumstances detailed in
divisions (2)(a), (2)(b) or (2)(d), within any six consecutive months, will be
charged at the manual rate for billable transactions until the error is
corrected; or
      (f)   Divisions (2)(a) through (e) notwithstanding, the police license
investigator may, upon presentation of extenuating circumstances, extend the
period that a qualifying licensee is billed at the modem rate for billable
transactions.
(Prior Code, § 612.11)
§ 612.12 RECEIPT REQUIRED.
   Every licensee must provide a receipt to the party identified in every
reportable transaction and must maintain a duplicate of that receipt for three
years. The receipt must include at least the following information:
   (1)   The name, address(es) and telephone number of the licensed business;
   (2)   The date and time the licensee received the item;
   (3)   Whether the item was pawned or sold or the nature of the transaction;
   (4)   An accurate description of each item received including, but not
limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name or other identifying mark on an item;
   (5)   The signature or unique identifier of the licensee or employee that
conducted the transaction;
   (6)   The amount advanced or paid;
   (7)   The monthly and annual interest rates, including all pawn fees and
charges;
   (8)   The last regular day of business by which the item must be redeemed by
the pledger without risk that the item will be sold, and the amount necessary
to redeem the pawned item on that date;
   (9)   The full name, residence address, residence telephone number and date
of birth of the pledger or seller;
   (10)   The identification number and state of issue from any of the
following forms of identification of the seller:
      (a)   Current Minnesota driver's license;
      (b)   Current Minnesota identification card; or
      (c)   Current photo driver's license or identification card issued by
another state.
   (11)   Description of the pledger including approximate sex, height, weight,
race, color of eyes and color of hair;
   (12)   The signature of the seller or pledger; and
   (13)   All printed statements required by M.S. § 325J.04, Subd. 2, as it may
be amended from time to time or any other applicable statutes.
(Prior Code, § 612.12)
§ 612.13 REDEMPTION PERIOD.
   Any person pledging, pawning or depositing an item for security must have a
minimum of 90 days from the date of that transaction to redeem the item before
it may be forfeited and sold. During the 90-day holding period, items may not
be removed from the licensed location except as provided in §
612.20. Licensees are prohibited from redeeming any item to anyone other than
the person to whom the receipt was issued, or to any person identified in a
written and notarized authorization to redeem the property identified in the
receipt, or to a person identified in writing by the pledger at the time of the
initial transaction and signed by the pledger, or with approval of the police
license investigator. Written authorization for release of property to persons
other than original pledger must be maintained along with original transaction
record in accordance with §
612.10(10).
(Prior Code, § 612.13)
§ 612.14 HOLDING PERIOD.
   Any item purchased by a licensee must not be sold or otherwise transferred
for 30 days from the date of the transaction. An individual may redeem an item
72 hours after the item was received on deposit, excluding Sundays and legal
holidays.
(Prior Code, § 612.14)
§ 612.15 POLICE ORDER TO HOLD PROPERTY.
   (1)   Investigative hold. Whenever a law enforcement official from any
agency notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or
removed from the premises. The investigative hold shall be confirmed in writing
by the originating agency within 72 hours and will remain in effect for 15 days
from the date of initial notification, or until the investigative order is
canceled, or until an order to hold/confiscate is issued, pursuant to division
(2) of this section, whichever comes first.
   (2)   Order to hold. Whenever the Chief of Police, or the Chief's designee,
notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or removed
from the licensed premises until authorized to be released by the Chief or the
Chief's designee. The order to hold shall expire 90 days from the date it is
placed unless the Chief of Police or the Chief's designee determines the hold
is still necessary and notifies the licensee in writing.
   (3)   Order to confiscate. If an item is identified as stolen or evidence in
a criminal case, the Chief or Chief's designee:
      (a)   Physically confiscate and remove it from the shop, pursuant to a
written order from the Chief or the Chief's designee; or
      (b)   Place the item on hold or extend the hold as provided in division
(2) of this section and leave it in the shop. When an item is confiscated, the
person doing so shall provide identification upon request of the licensee and
shall provide the licensee the name and phone number of the confiscating agency
and investigator and the case number related to the confiscation. When an order
to hold/confiscate is no longer necessary, the Chief of Police or Chief's
designee shall so notify the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 612.15)
§ 612.16 INSPECTION OF ITEMS.
   At all times during the terms of the license, the licensee must allow the
police license investigator or his or her designee(s) to enter the premises
where the licensed business is located, including all off-site storage
facilities as authorized in §
612.20, during normal business hours, except in an emergency, for the purpose
of inspecting the premises and inspecting the items, ware and merchandise and
records therein to verify compliance with this chapter or other applicable
laws.
(Prior Code, § 612.16)
§ 612.17 LABEL REQUIRED.
   Licensees must attach a label to every item at the time it is pawned,
purchased or received in inventory from any reportable transaction. Permanently
recorded on this label must be the number or name that identifies the
transaction in the shop's records, the transaction date, the name of the item
and the description or the model and serial number of the item as reported to
the Police Department, whichever is applicable and the date the item is out of
pawn or can be sold, if applicable. Labels shall not be re-used.
(Prior Code, § 612.17)
§ 612.18 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (1)   No person under the age of 18 years may pawn or sell or attempt to
pawn or sell goods with any licensee, nor may any licensee receive any goods
from a person under the age of 18 years.
   (2)   No licensee may receive any goods from a person of unsound mind or an
intoxicated person.
   (3)   No licensee may receive any goods, unless the seller presents
identification in the form of a current driver's license, a valid State of
Minnesota identification card or current photo driver's license or
identification card issued by the state of residency of the person from whom
the item was received.
   (4)   No licensee may receive any item of property that possesses an altered
or obliterated serial number or "operation identification" number or any item
of property that has had its serial number removed.
(Prior Code, § 612.18)
§ 612.19 DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   Any license under this chapter may be denied, suspended or revoked for one
or more of the following reasons:
   (1)   The proposed use does not comply with the Lino Lakes City Zoning
Chapter;
   (2)   The proposed use does not comply with any health, building, building
maintenance or other provisions of this code of ordinances or state law;
   (3)   The applicant or licensee has failed to comply with one or more
provisions of this chapter;
   (4)   Fraud, misrepresentation or bribery in securing or renewing a license;
   (5)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in the application
and investigation for, or in the course of, the applicant's business;
   (6)   Violation within the preceding five years, of any law relating to
theft, damage or trespass to property, sale of a controlled substance or
operation of a business;
   (7)   The owner of the premises licensed or to be licensed would not qualify
for a license under the terms of this chapter;
   (8)   Except in the case of a suspension pending a hearing on revocation, a
revocation or suspension by the City Council shall be preceded by written
notice to the licensee and the public hearing. The written notice shall give at
least eight days notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall state
the nature of the charges against the pawnbroker, precious metal dealer or
secondhand goods dealer. The Council may, without any notice, suspend any
license pending a hearing on revocation for a period not exceeding 30 days. The
notice may be served upon the pawnbroker, precious metal dealer or secondhand
goods dealer by United States mail addressed to the most recent address of the
business in the license application; and
   (9)   The following locations shall be ineligible for a license under this
chapter:
      (a)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any
property on which taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the state,
county, school district or city are due, delinquent or unpaid. In the event a
suit has been commenced under M.S. §§ 278.01 through 278.03, as they may be
amended from time to time, questioning the amount or validity of taxes, the
City Council may on application waive strict compliance with this provision; no
waiver may be granted, however, for taxes or any portion thereof which remain
unpaid for a period exceeding one year after becoming due;
      (b)   No license shall be granted or renewed if the property on which the
business is to be conducted is owned by a person who is ineligible for a
license under any of the requirements of this code, except that a property
owner who is a minor or who has been convicted of a crime, other than a crime
involving theft or falsehood, shall not make the premises ineligible under this
section; and
      (c)   Operations may be located only in General Business, Central
Business or Shopping Center Districts, unless the establishment is operating
pursuant to the City Zoning Chapter. No pawn shop shall be located within a
distance of one-half mile of any other business within the city as measured by
a straight line.
(Prior Code, § 612.19)
§ 612.20 BUSINESS AT ONLY ONE PLACE.
   A license under this chapter authorizes the licensee to carry on its
business only at the permanent place of business designated in the license.
However, upon written request, the police license investigator may approve an
off-site locked and secured storage facility. The licensee shall permit
inspection of the facility in accordance with §
612.16. All provisions of this chapter regarding recordkeeping and reporting
apply to the facility and its contents. Property shall be stored in compliance
with all provisions of the city code. The licensee must either own the building
in which the business is conducted and any approved off-site storage facility
or have a lease on the business premises, which extends for more than six
months.
(Prior Code, § 612.20)
§ 612.21 SEPARABILITY.
   Should any section, clause or other provision of this chapter be declared by
a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid the decision shall not effect
the validity of the chapter as a whole or any part other than the part so
declared invalid.
(Prior Code, § 612.21)
CHAPTER 613: TRANSIENT MERCHANT, PEDDLER, CANVASSER AND SOLICITOR
Section
   
613.01   Definitions
   
613.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
613.03   Religious and charitable organizations
   
613.04   Licensing; exemptions
   
613.05   License ineligibility
   
613.06   License suspension and revocation
   
613.07   License transferability
   
613.08   Prohibited activities
   
613.09   Penalties
§ 613.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street or any other type of place-to-place, for the purpose
of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or attempting to
sell and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personal property that the person is carrying or otherwise
transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term hawker.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the terms shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent or employee.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the same as
the term canvasser.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person whose business in the city is temporary or
seasonal and consists of selling and delivering merchandise within the city,
and who in furtherance of the purpose uses or occupies any structure, vehicle
or other place for the exhibition and sale of the merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 612.01) (Ord. 01-89, passed 2-13-1989)
§ 613.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (1)   For the purpose of this chapter, the terms peddler, solicitor and
transient merchant shall not apply to the following:
      (a)   Persons doing business by appointment;
      (b)   Persons selling or attempting to sell at wholesale their goods,
wares, products or merchandise to retail, wholesale, professional or industrial
establishments;
      (c)   Persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as garage
sales, rummage sales or estate sales, as well as anyone conducting an auction
as a properly licensed auctioneer or any officer of the court conducting a
court-ordered sale;
      (d)   No licenses shall be required for vendors as a preliminary step to
the establishment of a regular route service for the sale and delivery of
commodities or the providing of services to regular customers; and
      (e)   School aged children selling items for fund raisers.
      (f)   Persons selling only farm products they have grown themselves.
   (2)   Exception from the definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not
excuse any person from complying with any other applicable statutory provision
or local ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 612.03) (Ord. 01-89, passed 2-13-1989; Am. Ord. 01-11, passed 1-
24-2011)
§ 613.03 RELIGIOUS AND CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (1)   Any organization, society, association or corporation desiring to
solicit or have solicited in its name money, donations of money or property or
financial assistance of any kind or desiring to sell or distribute any item of
literature or merchandise for which a fee is charged or solicited from persons
other than members of the organizations upon the streets, in office or business
buildings, by house to house canvass or in public places for a charitable,
religious, patriotic, philanthropic or otherwise non-profit purpose shall be
exempt from §
613.04 of this chapter, provided a sworn application in writing on a form
furnished by the city is filed which shall include the following information:
      (a)   Name and purpose of the cause for which the license is sought;
      (b)   Names and addresses of the officers and/or directors of the
organization;
      (c)   The period during which the solicitation is to be carried on; and
      (d)   Whether or not any commission, fee, wages or emoluments are to be
expended in connection with the solicitation.
   (2)   Upon the foregoing being satisfied, the organization, association or
corporation shall furnish all its members, agents or representatives conducting
the solicitation credentials in writing stating the name of the organization,
name of the agent and the purpose of the solicitation. The credentials shall be
kept on the person of the members, agents or representatives during the actual
solicitation and be presented to anyone requesting to see same.
(Prior Code, § 612.04) (Ord. 01-89, passed 2-13-1989)
§ 613.04 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (1)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S. Ch.
329, as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a license for
the activity.
   (2)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business as either a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant without first having obtained a license from the city. The
license period will be no longer than six months from the date of issuance. A
single license may be issued to a company covering its employees or agents as
long as an application, as described herein, is completed, for each individual
person operating in the city.
   (3)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler, transient merchant or solicitor shall be made at least ten regular
business days before the applicant desires to begin conducting business on an
application form available from the office of the City Clerk. All applications
shall be signed by the applicant and shall include the following information:
      (a)   Applicant's full legal name, name of business and applicant's
current position;
      (b)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers;
      (c)   Applicant's permanent home and business address as well as a local
address for correspondence;
      (d)   Any and all business related telephone numbers, including a number
where the applicant can be reached while conducting business in the city;
      (e)   A brief written description of the nature of the business, the
goods to be sold and the applicant's method of operation;
      (f)   A brief statement of the nature, character and content of the
advertising done or proposed to be done in order to attract customers (samples
may be requested);
      (g)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent;
      (h)   The length of time which the applicant intends to do business in
the city with the approximate dates;
      (i)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant or the person
managing the business activities has been convicted within the last five years
of any felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor for violation of any state or
federal statute or any local ordinance, other than traffic offenses;
      (j)   The applicant's driver's license number or other acceptable form of
identification.
      (k)   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same together with
license number or other means of identification;
      (l)   A photograph of the applicant, taken within 60 days immediately
prior to the date of filing of the application, which picture shall be two
inches by two inches showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear
and distinguishing manner;
      (m)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant; and
      (n)   Transient merchants shall include the addresses of all places where
the business is to be located along with written consent of the owners or
occupants.
(Prior Code, § 612.06) (Ord. 01-89, passed 2-13-1989)
   (4)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established by ordinance annually in the city fee
schedule, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (5)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Clerk must determine if the application is complete.
An application is determined to be complete only if all required information is
provided. If the City Clerk determines that the application is incomplete, the
City Clerk must inform the applicant of the required or necessary information
that is missing. If the application is complete, the City Clerk must order any
investigation, including background checks, necessary to verify the information
provided with the application. The City Clerk will present the license request
to the Council as soon as possible. If there exists grounds for denying the
license under §
613.05, the Clerk will present that information to the City Council. If the
Council denies the license, the applicant must be notified in writing of the
decision, the reason for denial and of the applicant's right to appeal the
denial by requesting, within 20 days of receiving notice of rejection, a public
hearing before the City Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal within
20 days of the date of the request.
   (6)   License exemptions.
      (a)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street or other type of
place-to-place when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that person's
state or federal constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, press,
religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the person's
exercise of constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
      (b)   Professional fundraisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
chapter.
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 613.05 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (1)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as part of the application, or the failure to
sign the application or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (2)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person's
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner. Those violations shall include but not be limited to
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices and any
form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person;
   (3)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant; and
   (4)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than three complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Attorney General's office or other similar business or consumer
rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months.
§ 613.06 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (1)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (a)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statements on the application
form;
      (b)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity;
      (c)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could
have been denied under §
613.05; and
      (d)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (2)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person's authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (3)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
local address given on the application.
   (4)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (3) of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk within ten regular
business days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with
the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall
be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a
public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be
scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within three regular
business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
   (5)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person's license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (4) of this section.
§ 613.07 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
§ 613.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (1)   Sell or solicit before the hour of 9:00 a.m. or after one-half hour
past sunset unless a previous appointment has been made.
   (2)   Enter or conduct business upon any premise where a sign or plaque is
conspicuously posted stating in effect that no peddlers or solicitors are
allowed. The signs shall have letters a minimum of one-half inch high.
   (3)   Occupy for the purpose of advertising and/or conducting business any
area within a sight triangle, at any road intersection.
   (4)   Occupy as a transient merchant, solicitor or peddler, any public
right-of-way or other public property for the purpose of advertising and/or
conducting business.
   (5)   Obstruct the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right of way.
   (6)   Conduct business in a way as to create a threat to the health, safety
and welfare of any individual or the general public.
   (7)   Call attention to business or items to be sold by means of blowing any
horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out or by any other noise, so as to
be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure.
   (8)   Failing to provide proof of license and identification, when
requested.
   (9)   Making false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or registration to that person.
   (10)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating or abusive.
§ 613.09 PENALTIES.
   Whoever does any act forbidden by this chapter or omits or fails to do any
act required by this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to
all penalties provided for under Minnesota law.
CHAPTER 614: ADULT USES (SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES)
Section
   
614.01   Purpose and intent
   
614.02   Definitions
   
614.03   Classification
   
614.04   Licenses
   
614.05   Issuance of licenses
   
614.06   License fees; license investigation fees
   
614.07   Inspection
   
614.08   Expiration of license
   
614.09   Suspension
   
614.10   Revocation
   
614.11   Appeal
   
614.12   Transfer of license
   
614.13   Additional regulations for escort agencies
   
614.14   Additional regulations for nude model studios
   
614.15   Additional regulations for adult theaters and adult motion picture
theaters
   
614.16   Additional regulations for adult motels
   
614.17   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films or
videos
   
614.18   Enforcement
   
614.19   Injunction
§ 614.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (1)   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate adult use sexually-
oriented businesses to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare
of the citizens of the city, to guard against the inception and transmission of
disease, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations. The provisions of
the chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or
restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually-
oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter
to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually-oriented materials protected
by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually-oriented entertainment to their intended market.
   (2)   The City Council further finds that experience from other cities
demonstrates that adult use businesses conducted in private by members of the
same or the opposite sex, and employing personnel with no specialized training,
are susceptible to operation in a manner contravening, subverting or
endangering the health, safety and welfare of members of the community by being
the sites of acts of prostitution, illicit sex and occasions of violent crimes,
thus requiring close inspection, licensing and regulation.
(Prior Code, § 613.01) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 614.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT USE RELATED TERMS.
      ADULT USES. Include adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters,
adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage parlors, adult steam room/
bathhouse/sauna facilities, adult companionship establishments, adult rap/
conversation parlors, adult health/sport clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty
businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotels/
motels, adult body painting studios and other premises, enterprises,
establishments, businesses or places open to some or all members of the public,
at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction or
description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"
which are capable of being seen by members of the public. Activities classified
as obscene as defined by M.S. § 617.241, as it may be amended from time to time
are not included.
         1.   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
            a.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals,
pubic region, buttock, anus or female breast(s) below a point immediately above
the top of the areola; and
            b.   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
         2.   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
            a.   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship and any of the following: sexually-oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty;
            b.   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation, arousal or tumescence;
            c.   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus or masturbation;
            d.   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breast;
            e.   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are
nude, clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes and who are
engaged in activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding
or other physical restraint of any persons;
            f.   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually-oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
            g.   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
   ADULT USE - ACCESSORY. The offering of retail goods for sale which are
classified as adult uses on a limited scale and which are incidental to the
primary activity and goods and/or services offered by the establishment.
Examples of these items include the sale of adult magazines, the sale and/or
rental of adult motion pictures, the sale of adult novelties and the like.
(Also see applicable sections of the City Zoning Code for further requirements
defining ADULT USE ACCESSORY.)
   ADULT USES - PRINCIPAL. The offering of goods and/or services which are
classified as adult uses as a primary or sole activity of a business or
establishment and included but are not limited to the following:
      ADULT USE - BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business which
provides the service of applying paint or other substances, whether transparent
or non-transparent, to or on the body of a patron when the body is wholly or
partially nude in terms of "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT USE - BOOKSTORE. A building or portion of a building used for the
barter, rental or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides,
records, audio tape, videotape, compact discs, computer software, digital
recordings, motion picture film or other communication mediums if the building
or portion of a building is not open to the public generally but only to one or
more classes of the public excluding any minor by reason of age or if a
substantial or significant portion of the items are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT USE - CABARET. A building or portion of a building used for
providing dancing or other live entertainment, if the building or portion of a
building excludes minors by virtue of age or if dancing or other live
entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT USE - COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A companionship establishment
which excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of
engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or discussion between an
employee of the establishment and a customer, if the service is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas."
      ADULT USE - CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap parlor which
excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in
or listening to conversation, talk or discussion, if the service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT USE - HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club which excludes minors
by reason of age or if the club is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT USE - HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel from which minors are
specifically excluded from patronage and wherein material is presented which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT USE - MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club
which restricts minors by reason of age and which provides the services of
massage, if the service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT USE - MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a
building with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material
if the building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes
minors by virtue of age or if the material is distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"
for observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT USE - MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is the
provision, to customers, or figure models who are so provided with the intent
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to customers and who
engage in "specified sexual activities" or display "specified anatomical areas"
while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured,
photographed or otherwise depicted by the customers.
      ADULT USE - MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motor picture
machines, projectors of other image-producing devices are maintained to show
images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas."
      ADULT USE - MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building
with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material if the
building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by
virtue of age or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for
observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT USE - NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has as a principal
activity the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which
are designed for sexual stimulation.
      ADULT USE - SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, or
which provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning,
relaxing or reducing agent, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT USE - STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if the building or portion of a
building restricts minors by reason of age if the service provided by the steam
room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator of the City of Lino Lakes.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate an adult use business
has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on the
application for a license.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT.  SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT of an adult use business
means the increase in floor area occupied by the business by more that 25%, as
the floor area existed on the effective date of this chapter.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL. Transfer of ownership or control of an
adult use business means and includes any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sub-lease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Prior Code, § 613.02) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 614.03 CLASSIFICATION.
   The following uses are classified as adult uses:
   (1)   Adult uses - accessory.
      (a)   Comprise no more than 10% of the floor area of the establishment in
which it is located.
      (b)   Comprise no more than 20% of the gross receipts of the entire
business operation.
      (c)   Not involved or include any activity except the sale or rental of
merchandise.
   (2)   Adult uses - principal.
      (a)   Body painting studio.
      (b)   Bookstore.
      (c)   Cabaret.
      (d)   Companionship establishment.
      (e)   Conversation/rap parlor.
      (f)   Health/sport club.
      (g)   Hotel or motel.
      (h)   Massage parlor, health club.
      (i)   Mini-motion picture theater.
      (j)   Modeling studio.
      (k)   Motion picture arcade.
      (l)   Motion picture theater.
      (m)   Novelty business.
      (n)   Sauna.
      (o)   Steam room/bathhouse facility.
(Prior Code, § 613.03) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 614.04 LICENSES.
   (1)   Required and exempt.
      (a)   No person, firm or corporation shall operate an adult use-principal
without having first secured a license as herein provided.
      (b)   Adult uses-accessory shall not require a license pursuant to this
section.
   (2)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
city. The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing the
configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with market
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. Applicants who must comply with §
614.17 of the chapter shall submit a diagram meeting the requirements of that
section.
   (3)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
section and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the law by the Fire Department and the Building Department.
   (4)   If a person who wishes to operate an adult use business is an
individual, the individual must sign the application for a license as
applicant. If a person who wishes to operate an adult use business is other
than an individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in the
business must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant
must be qualified under §
614.05 and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is
granted.
(Prior Code, § 613.04) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 614.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   The City Administrator shall approve the issuance of a license to an
applicant within 30 days after receipt of an application unless the
Administrator finds one more of the following to be true.
   (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
   (2)   The applicant is delinquent in his or her payment to the city of
taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against him or her or imposed upon him
or her in relation to a sexually-oriented business.
   (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form.
   (4)   An applicant has been convicted of a violation of a provision of this
section within two years immediately preceding the application. The fact that a
conviction is being appealed shall have no effect.
   (5)   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a license
by the city to operate an adult use business within the preceding 12 months or
residing with a person whose license to operate an adult use business has been
revoked within the preceding 12 months.
   (6)   The premises to be used for the adult use business have not been
approved by the Fire Department and the building official as being in
compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
   (7)   The license fee required by this section has not been paid.
   (8)   An applicant has been employed in an adult use sexually-oriented
business in a managerial capacity within the preceding 12 months and has
demonstrated that he or she is unable to operate or manage an adult use
business premises in a peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating
action by law enforcement officers.
   (9)   An applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with the city code.
   (10)   An applicant or an applicant's spouse has been convicted of a crime:
      (a)   Involving any of the following offenses:
         1.   Prostitution as described in M.S. § 609.321, as it may be amended
from time to time;
         2.   Solicitation, inducement of promotion of prostitution as
described in M.S. § 609.322, as it may be amended from time to time;
         3.   Receiving profit derived from prostitution as described in M.S. §
609.323, as it may be amended from time to time;
         4.   Other prohibited acts relating to prostitution as described in
M.S. § 609.324, as it may be amended from time to time;
         5.   Obscenity as described in M.S. § 617.241, as it may be amended
from time to time;
         6.   Sale, dissemination, distribution, display or exhibition of
harmful material to minors as described in M.S. §§ 617.293 and 617.294, as they
may be amended from time to time;
         7.   Sexual performance by a child as described in M.S. § 617.246, as
it may be amended from time to time;
         8.   Dissemination or possession of child pornography as described in
M.S. § 617.247, as it may be amended from time to time;
         9.   Indecent exposure as described in M.S. § 617.23, as it may be
amended from time to time;
         10.   Criminal sexual conduct as described in M.S. §§ 609.342;
609.343, 609.344 and 609.345, as they may be amended from time to time;
         11.   Incest, as described in M.S. § 609.365, as it may be amended
from time to time; or
         12.   Criminal attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any of
the foregoing offenses.
      (b)   For which:
         1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a felony offense; or
         3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
   (11)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have not effect on
the disqualification of the applicant or applicant's spouse.
   (12)   An applicant who has been convicted or whose spouse has been
convicted of an offense listed in division (10)(a) above may qualify for an
adult use business license only when the time period required by division (10)
(b) above has elapsed.
   (13)   The license, if granted, shall state the name of the person or
persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date and the address of the adult
use business. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the adult use sexually-oriented business so that it may be easily
read at any time.
(Prior Code, § 613.05) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 614.06 LICENSE FEES; LICENSE INVESTIGATION FEES.
   The annual fee for an adult use business license shall be set by resolution
of the City Council. The investigation fee for the purpose of issuing a license
shall be set by resolution of the City Council. In the event that the license
is denied upon application, the license fee shall be refunded; however, no part
of the license investigation fee shall be returned to the applicant. No part of
the annual license fee shall be refunded if the license is suspended or
revoked.
(Prior Code, § 613.06) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 614.07 INSPECTION.
   (1)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Fire Department and Building Inspection Division to inspect the
premises of an adult use business for the purpose of ensuring compliance with
the law, at any time it is occupied or open for business.
   (2)   A person who operates an adult use business or their agent or employee
commits an offense if the person refuses to permit a lawful inspection of the
premises by a representative of the Police Department at any time it is
occupied or open for business.
   (3)   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult motel
which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a permanent or
temporary habitation.
(Prior Code, § 613.07) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 614.08 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (1)   Each renewal license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year.
All licenses expire on December 31 of each year. Each license may be renewed
only by making application as provided in §
614.04. Application for renewal shall be made at least 90 days before the
expiration date. If the City Administrator determines good and sufficient cause
is shown by the applicant for failure to file a timely renewal application, the
City Administrator may, if other provisions of the section are complied with,
grant the application.
   (2)   When the City Administrator denies renewal of a license, the applicant
shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If,
subsequent to denial, the City Administrator finds that the basis for denial of
the renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted
a license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Prior Code, § 613.08) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 614.09 SUSPENSION.
   The City Administrator may suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30
days following written notice and an opportunity to be heard if the
Administrator determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
   (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with this chapter;
   (2)   Engaged in excessive use of alcoholic beverages while in the adult use
sexually-oriented business premises;
   (3)   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult use business premises as
authorized by this section;
   (4)   Knowingly permitted unlawful gambling by any person on the adult use
business premises; or
   (5)   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage an adult use business in a
peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law enforcement
officers.
(Prior Code, § 613.09) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 614.10 REVOCATION.
   (1)   The City Administrator may revoke a license preceded by written notice
and an opportunity to be heard if a cause of suspension in §
614.09 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (2)   The City Administrator may revoke a license if the City Administrator
determines that:
      (a)   A licensee gave false or misleading information to the city during
the application process;
      (b)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (c)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (d)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the adult use business
during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      (e)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in §
614.05(10)(a) for which the time period required in §
614.05(10)(b) has not elapsed;
      (f)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises of a
crime listed in §
614.05(10)(a), for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or
persons were employees of the adult use business at the time the offenses were
committed;
      (g)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or sexual contact to occur
in or on the licensed premises. The term "sexual contact" shall have the
meaning as it is defined in M.S. § 609.341, Subd. 11(b), as it may be amended
from time to time; or
      (h)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city for ad valorem
taxes, local lodging tax or other taxes or fees related to the adult use
sexually-oriented business.
   (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have not effect on
the revocation of the license.
   (4)   Division (2)(g) above does not apply to adult motels as a ground for
revoking the license unless the licensee or employee knowingly allowed the act
of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or sexual contact
to occur in a public place or within public view.
   (5)   When the City Administrator revokes a license, the revocation shall
continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued an adult use
business license for one year from the date revocation became effective. If,
subsequent to revocation, the City Administrator finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective. If the license was revoked under division(2)(g) above, an applicant
may not be granted another license until the appropriate number of years
required under §
614.05(10)(b) have elapsed.
(Prior Code, § 613.10) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 614.11 APPEAL.
   (1)   If the City Administrator denies the issuance of a license, or
suspends or revokes a license, the Administrator shall send to the applicant or
licensee, by certified mail, return receipt requested, written notice of the
action and the right to an appeal. The aggrieved party may appeal the decision
of the City Administrator within ten days of receiving notice of the city's
action. The filing of an appeal stays the action of the City Administrator in
suspending or revoking a license until the City Council makes a final decision.
   (2)   Procedure. The City Council may appoint a committee of the Council or
an independent hearing officer to hear the matter, report findings of fact, and
a recommendation for disposition to the City Council. Hearings on the appeal
shall be open to the public and the licensee or applicant shall have the right
to appear and be represented by legal counsel and to offer evidence in its
behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council shall make a final
decision.
   (3)   Additional requirements. The City Council may condition denial,
suspension, revocation or non-renewal of a license upon appropriate terms and
conditions.
(Prior Code, § 613.11) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 614.12 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate an adult use business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address designated in the application.
(Prior Code, § 613.12) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 614.13 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (1)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (2)   A person commits an offense if he or she acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Prior Code, § 613.13) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 614.14 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (1)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (2)   A person commits an offense if he or she appears in a state of nudity
or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area of a nude
model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 613.14) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 614.15 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT THEATERS AND ADULT MOTION PICTURE
THEATERS.
   (1)   A person commits an offense if he or she knowingly allows a person
under the age of 18 years to appear in a state of nudity in or on the premises
of an adult theater or adult motion picture theater.
   (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (1) above of this
section if the person under 18 years was in a rest room not open to public view
or persons of the opposite sex.
(Prior Code, § 613.15) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 614.16 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (1)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (2)   A person commits an offense if, as the person on control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that does not have
an adult use business license, he or she rents or sub-rents a sleeping room to
a person and, within one hour from the time the room is rented, he or she rents
or sub-rents the same sleeping room again.
   (3)   For purposes of division (2) above of this section, the terms RENT or
SUB-RENT mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of
consideration.
(Prior Code, § 613.16) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 614.17 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS.
   (1)   A person who operates or causes to be operated an adult use business,
other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of
less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette or other video
reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, shall comply with the following requirements.
      (a)   Upon application for an adult use business license, the application
shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan thereof
specifying the location of one or more manager's stations and the location of
all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises in
which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station shall not exceed 32
square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place at which
the license will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared
diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall not be
required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to some
designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or marked
dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all areas of
the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The
City Administrator may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if
the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that
the configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (b)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (c)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the City Administrator or his
or her designee.
      (d)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (e)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of the
premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding rest
rooms. Rest rooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the premises
has two manager's stations designated, then the interior of the premises shall
be configured in a manner that there is an unobstructed view of each area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose from at
least one of the manager's stations. The view required in this division must be
by direct line of sight from the manager's station.
      (f)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the view area specified in division (e) remains unobstructed by any doors,
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times that any
patron is present in the premises and to ensure that no patron is permitted
access to any area of the premises which has been designated as an area in
which patrons will not be permitted in the application filed pursuant to
division (a) of this section.
      (g)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one foot candle as measured at floor
level.
      (h)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operators and it shall be
the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that the
illumination described above, is maintained, at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   (2)   A person having a duty under divisions (1)(a) through (h) above
commits an offense if the person knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Prior Code, § 613.17) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993; Am. Ord. 03-16, passed
6-13-2016)
§ 614.18 ENFORCEMENT.
   (1)   Any person violating a provision of this chapter, upon conviction, is
punishable by a fine not to exceed $700 and 90 days in jail.
   (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter that a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      (a)   By a proprietary school licensed by the State of Minnesota; a
college, junior college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      (b)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (c)   In a structure:
         1.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         2.   Where in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         3.   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
(Prior Code, § 613.18) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 614.19 INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated an adult use business without
a valid license or in violation of this chapter is subject to a suit for
injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations.
(Prior Code, § 613.19) (Ord. 93-16, passed 10-11-1993)
CHAPTER 615: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
615.01   Purpose and findings
   
615.02   Definitions
   
615.03   License required
   
615.04   Application for license
   
615.05   Issuance of license, conditions and posting
   
615.06   Exceptions to the license
   
615.07   Denial of application
   
615.08   Penalty
   
615.09   Indemnification
   
615.10   Applicability
§ 615.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of this city by regulating the time, place and manner of conduct
of special events and by establishing license requirements for conducting
special events such as are herein defined. The City Council finds that special
events often exceed the city’s capacity to provide usual city services. These
city services include, but are not limited to sanitary, fire, police and
utility services. The City Council also finds these regulations necessary to
ensure that the events are conducted with sufficient consideration given to
public safety issues, including, among other things, the impact of these events
on parking and vehicular traffic within the city.
(Ord. 03-07, passed 4-23-2007; Am. Ord. 03-16, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 615.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. A natural person, association, organization, club, group formed for
a common purpose, partnership of any kind, limited liability company,
corporation or any other legal entity.
   SPECIAL EVENT. An outdoor gathering of at least 50 individuals whether on
public or private property, assembled with a common purpose for a period of one
hour or longer. SPECIAL EVENTS include, but are not limited to concerts, fairs,
carnivals, circuses, parades, open air markets, marathons, walkathons,
festivals, races, bicycle events, celebrations or any other gathering or events
of similar nature. SPECIAL EVENTS do not include noncommercial events held on
private property such as graduation parties or social parties.
(Ord. 03-07, passed 4-23-2007; Am. Ord. 01-11, passed 1-24-2011)
§ 615.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall hold, conduct or participate in a special event within the
city unless a license has been issued for the event upon timely written
application made to the city.
(Ord. 03-07, passed 4-23-2007; Am. Ord. 03-16, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 615.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   In addition to the general licensing application requirements included in §
601.02, each written application for a special event license must be made at
least 45 days in advance of the event’s proposed date in a form prescribed by
the City Council. This application period shall not begin to run until a
complete application has been filed with the city. Application forms shall be
made available in the office of the City Clerk. A fee, in the amount specified
in the city fee schedule, shall be paid to the city along with the completed
application form. In addition to the fee, the applicant shall pay all
additional costs incurred by the city as a direct result of the special event.
Nonprofit entities, as defined as § 501(c) or (d) by the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 as amended, shall be exempt from payment of the license application fee
but not from city incurred costs. Failure to provide a complete application or
to pay the fee, as herein required, is sufficient reason to deny the special
event license.
(Ord. 03-07, passed 4-23-2007; Am. Ord. 03-16, passed 6-13-2016)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
 
§ 615.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE, CONDITIONS AND POSTING.
   (1) Special event licenses will be issued upon City Council approval. The
Council may attach reasonable conditions to the license as are deemed necessary
to protect the health, safety and welfare.
   (2)   The conditions may pertain to any of the following:
      (a)   Location and hours during which the event may be held;
      (b)   Sanitation/availability of potable water;
      (c)   Security/crowd management;
      (d)   Parking and traffic issues;
      (e)   Emergency and medical services;
      (f)   Clean-up of premises and surrounding area/trash disposal;
      (g)   Insurance;
      (h)   Lighting;
      (i)   Fire service/safety, including meeting all requirements of the
State Fire Code, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (j)   Temporary construction, barricades/fencing;
      (k)   Removal of advertising/promotional materials;
      (l)   Noise levels;
      (m)   Alcohol consumption;
      (n)   Notification of residents or businesses; and
      (o)   Any other conditions which the Council deems necessary.
(Ord. 03-07, passed 4-23-2007; Am. Ord. 03-16, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 615.06 EXCEPTIONS TO THE LICENSE.
   The license requirement contained in this chapter does not apply to the
following:
   (1)   Special events sponsored and managed by the city;
   (2)   Funerals and funeral processions; and
   (3)   The grounds of any school, playground, city or county park, place of
worship, hotel conference center, stadium, athletic field, arena, auditorium or
similar place of assembly when used for regularly established assembly
purposes.
(Ord. 03-07, passed 4-23-2007; Am. Ord. 03-16, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 615.07 DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   A license may be denied based upon a determination that:
   (1)   The event would seriously endanger public safety;
   (2)   The event would unreasonably inconvenience the general public;
   (3)   The event would unreasonably infringe upon the rights of abutting
properties;
   (4)   The event would conflict with another proximate event or interfere
with construction or maintenance work;
   (5)   There are not sufficient safety personnel or other necessary staff to
accommodate the event; and
   (6)   Other issues in the public interest were identified by the City
Council.
(Ord. 03-07, passed 4-23-2007; Am. Ord. 03-16, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 615.08 PENALTY.
   (1)   Any person who violates any condition of a special event license or
any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as
prescribed by Minnesota State Law.
   (2)   Enforcement of this division may, at the Council’s discretion, take
any of the following forms:
      (a)   Citation/criminal prosecution;
      (b)   Injunctions, declaratory judgments or other civil remedies;
      (c)   License revocation; and
      (d)   Disbursement of persons gathered.
(Ord. 03-07, passed 4-23-2007; Am. Ord. 03-16, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 615.09 INDEMNIFICATION.
   License holder agrees to defend, indemnify and hold the city, its officers
and employees harmless from any liability, claim, damages, costs, judgments or
expenses, including attorney’s fees, resulting directly or indirectly from an
act or omission including, without limitation, professional errors and
omissions of event promoter, its agents, employees, arising out of or by any
reason of the conduct of the activity authorized by the license and against all
loss caused in any way be reason of the failure of the event promoter to fully
perform all obligations under this section.
(Ord. 03-07, passed 4-23-2007; Am. Ord. 03-16, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 615.10 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter and of all regulations made thereunder and
all licenses issued thereunder shall be subject to all applicable and
controlling provisions of federal, state and city laws and of regulations and
orders issued thereunder.
(Ord. 03-07, passed 4-23-2007; Am. Ord. 03-16, passed 6-13-2016)
CHAPTER 616: THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE
Section
   
616.01   Purpose and findings
   
616.02   Definitions
   
616.03   License required
   
616.04   Application for license; license fee
   
616.05   Conditions governing issuance; applicant data
   
616.06   Conditions governing issuance; applicant and other data
   
616.07   Restrictions on license; regulations
   
616.08   Inspection
   
616.09   Grounds for suspension or revocation
   
616.10   Suspension of license for violations
§ 616.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate massage therapists and
therapeutic massage businesses. Therapeutic massage businesses are subject to
abuses that are contrary to the morals, health, safety, and general welfare of
the community. Control of these abuses requires efforts on the part of the city
and its Public Safety Department.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 616.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCREDITED INSTITUTION. An educational institution holding accredited status
approved by the United States Department of Education or the Minnesota Office
of Higher Education.
   APPLICANT. Any corporation, partnership, or other business or individual
filing an application with the city seeking a massage therapist or therapeutic
massage business license pursuant to this chapter.
   CLIENT. An individual receiving therapeutic massage services.
   DEPARTMENT. The Public Safety Department.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Public Safety Department, or his or her duly
appointed designee.
   EMPLOYEES. All employees, agents, contractors, or other persons associated
with a therapeutic massage business who spend a significant amount of time on
the premises of a therapeutic massage business or who assist in or administer
therapeutic massage services, whether or not on the premises. A self-employed
massage therapist is considered to be an EMPLOYEE for purposes of this chapter.
   LICENSEE. The holder of a license to operate a therapeutic massage business
or work as a massage therapist.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST. A person who practices or administers therapeutic massage
services who has completed 500 hours of certified therapeutic massage training
with content that includes the subjects of anatomy, physiology, hygiene,
ethics, massage theory and research, and massage practice from an accredited
institution or program, or institution licensed or registered by a state
licensing board or agency that has been approved by the issuing authority. In
the event the accredited program or accredited institution is no longer in
existence, in the sole discretion of the city, a certified copy of the
transcript of academic record may be accepted directly from the applicant with
an affidavit stating the transcript of academic record is authentic. The
transcript of academic record must be from a program or institution that was
once accredited and approved by the issuing authority. The certified copy of
the transcript of academic record must contain the applicant’s name, last
address of the accredited institution at the time of closing, and reflect the
500 hours of certified therapeutic massage training with content that includes
the subjects of anatomy, physiology, hygiene, ethics, massage theory and
research, and massage practice as required.
   PREMISES. The physical location(s) identified by the applicant where
therapeutic massage services are to be administered, excluding hospitals,
sanatoriums, rest homes, nursing homes, boarding homes, or other institutions
for the hospitalization or care of human beings, duly licensed under the
provisions of M.S. §§ 144.50 through 144.69, and also excluding locations where
therapeutic massage services are only sporadically administered, such as the
homes of therapeutic massage clients. The home of a massage therapist where
therapeutic massage services are regularly administered constitutes a licensed
PREMISES.
   THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE BUSINESS. Operation of a business that employs and/or
contracts with massage therapists to administer therapeutic massage services
for a fee, including self-employed massage therapists, and other than a
hospital, sanatorium, rest home, nursing home, boarding home, or other
institution for the hospitalization or care of human beings, duly licensed
under the provisions of M.S. §§ 144.50 through 144.69, whether or not the
therapeutic massage services are rendered at the licensed premises. This does
not include massage therapists working under the supervision of a licensed
medical practitioner.
   THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE SERVICES. The rubbing, stroking, kneading, tapping, or
rolling of the body of another with the hands or objects for the exclusive
purpose of physical fitness, relaxation, or beautification, and for no other
purpose, including specified sexual activities defined in §
614.02.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 12-11-2017; Am. Ord. 13-18, passed 9-24-2018)
§ 616.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Except as provided for by M.S. § 471.709, no individual shall practice,
administer, or provide therapeutic massage services to the public, and no
corporation, partnership, other business, or individual shall engage in the
business of operating a therapeutic massage business as defined in §
616.02, either exclusively or in connection with any other business enterprise,
without first obtaining a license issued by the city.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 616.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; LICENSE FEE.
   (1)   Application. An application form for a massage therapist or
therapeutic massage business license shall be made available by the City Clerk.
In addition to the general licensing application requirements included in §
601.02, each written application for a massage therapist or therapeutic massage
business license shall contain the following.
      (a)   If the application is made on behalf of a corporation, partnership,
or other business, it shall be accompanied by appropriate business records
showing the names and addresses of all individuals having a pecuniary interest
in the business, and in the case of a corporation, the names and addresses of
the officers and shareholders.
      (b)   If the applicant intends to utilize a premises to provide
therapeutic massage services, applicant shall furnish to the city the address
of the premises and the city zoning designation for the premises, as well as
the applicant's interest in the premises, such as a lease, deed, or contract
for deed. If the application is by a natural person, it shall be signed and
sworn to by that person; if by a corporation, by one of the officers; if by a
partnership, by one of the partners; and if by an unincorporated association,
by the manager or managing officer thereof.
      (c)   Personal history form(s) providing information to the Department
for the purpose of conducting a background check on all anticipated employees
and the individuals identified in division (1)(a).
      (d)   Verification that all employees anticipated to perform therapeutic
massage services on behalf of the therapeutic massage business are certified or
have experience defined in §
616.06(6).
      (e)   Whether the applicant has ever been engaged in the operation of
massage services. If so, the applicant shall furnish information as to the
name, dates, place, and length of time of the involvement in such
establishment.
      (f)   Whether the applicant has had an interest in, as an individual or
as part of a corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business, or
firm, a massage license that was denied, revoked, or suspended within the last
ten years of the date the license application is submitted to the issuing
authority.
      (g)   Whether the applicant has ever been arrested, charged, or convicted
of any crime or violation of any ordinance, other than a minor traffic offense.
If so, the applicant shall furnish information as to the date, time, and
offense for which arrests, charges, or convictions were had.
      (h)   Whether the applicant has ever been the subject of an
investigation, public or private, criminal or non-criminal, regarding massage
therapy.
      (i)   Applicant is responsible for reading and understanding the
provisions of this chapter and for communicating and providing interpretation
when necessary to all massage therapists licensed at the enterprise to ensure
compliance.
   (2)   License, background, and miscellaneous fees. A fee in the amount
specified in the city fee schedule shall be paid to the city along with the
completed application form. In the event that the license is denied upon
application, the license fee shall be refunded; however no part of the license
investigation fee shall be returned to the applicant. No part of the annual
license fee shall be refunded if the license is suspended, revoked, or
discontinued. The initial license fee may be prorated. The licensee shall be
responsible for any city costs in enforcing the license provisions, including,
but not limited to, re-inspection fees and attorney fees.
   (3)   Establishment licensing/individual licensing. An applicant may apply
for both a therapeutic massage business license and massage therapist licenses
for its employees.
   (4)   License term; renewal. Each license shall be issued for a maximum
period of one year. Each license may be renewed only by making application as
provided in §
616.04. All licenses expire on June 30 of each year.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 12-11-2017; Am. Ord. 13-18, passed 9-24-2018)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 616.05 CONDITIONS GOVERNING ISSUANCE; APPLICANT DATA.
   The city has established the following conditions governing the issuance of
massage therapist and therapeutic massage business licenses. The city is
empowered to conduct any and all investigations to verify applicant data,
including ordering a computerized criminal history inquiry and/or a driver's
license/identification history inquiry on the applicant, anticipated employees,
and all individuals identified in §
616.04(1)(a). The City Council or Chief of Police, or his or her designee, may
order and conduct such additional investigation as they deem necessary. The
City Council shall consider the issuance of a license to an applicant within 30
days after receipt of an application unless one or more of the following, or
any of the conditions in §
616.06, are found to be true:
   (1)   The applicant is under 18 years of age;
   (2)   The applicant is delinquent in his or her payments to the city of
taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him or her;
   (3)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
   (4)   The applicant is unable to provide photo identification issued by a
federal, state, or territory of the United States of America. This includes a
valid passport, state-issued driver's license, or other official form of
identification;
   (5)   The premises has not been approved for occupancy and use by the
appropriate city personnel or is not in compliance with all applicable laws and
ordinances;
   (6)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid;
   (7)   Has had an interest in, as an individual or as part of a corporation,
partnership, association, enterprise, business, or firm, a massage license that
was denied, revoked, or suspended within the last ten years of the date the
license application is submitted to the issuing authority;
   (8)   Has been arrested, charged, or convicted of any crime directly related
to the occupation licensed as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 2, and who has
not shown competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation and present fitness
to perform the duties and responsibilities of a licensee as prescribed by M.S.
§ 364.03, Subd. 3; or
   (9)   Is the spouse of a person whose massage-related license has been
denied, suspended, or revoked in the past ten years.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 12-11-2017; Am. Ord. 13-18, passed 9-24-2018)
§ 616.06 CONDITIONS GOVERNING ISSUANCE; APPLICANT AND OTHER DATA.
   (1)   If the applicant meets the criteria in §
616.05, the City Council shall consider the issuance of a license to an
applicant within 30 days after receipt of an application unless any one of the
following apply to the applicant, its anticipated employees, or any of the
individuals identified in §
616.04(1)(a):
      (a)   Conviction of a felony within five years of the date an application
for a license is filed with the city;
      (b)   Conviction, charge, or arrest of any sexually oriented crime or
ordinance violation, including, but not limited to, M.S. §§ 609.321 through
609.324, 609.342 through 609.345, 609.365, 617.23, 617.241, 617.246, 617.247,
617.293, 617.294, or criminal attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit
any of the foregoing offenses within ten years of the date an application for a
license is filed with the city;
      (c)   Has been determined to have engaged in any conduct prohibited by
M.S. § 146A.08, as it may be amended from time to time, within five years of
the date an application for a license is filed with the city;
      (d)   Under requirement to register as a predatory offender under M.S. §
243.166, or any similar law in Minnesota or elsewhere, within ten years;
      (e)   Have had a massage therapist or therapeutic massage business denied
or revoked by a state, city, or other licensing authority within ten years;
      (f)   Has been ordered to pay civil penalties by a state, city, or other
licensing authority within five years;
      (g)   Cannot provide proof of their eligibility to work in the United
States; or
      (h)   Failure to provide a transcript from an accredited institution.
   (2)   With respect to divisions (1)(a) through (1)(h), a pending appeal
shall have no effect on the determination whether to issue a license.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 12-11-2017; Am. Ord. 13-18, passed 9-24-2018)
§ 616.07 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE; REGULATIONS.
   (1)   Inspection. No therapeutic massage business that operates out of a
premises shall be granted a license or renewal of a license without passing a
city inspection to determine compliance with this chapter. Compliance shall be
determined in accordance with requirements set forth in §
616.08.
   (2)   Minors. No person shall give or assist in the giving of any
therapeutic massage services to any person under the age of 18 years, unless
the parent or guardian of such minor person has consented thereto in writing.
   (3)   List of services. The licensee or a designated employee or individual
identified in §
616.04(1)(a) shall post or provide to the client a list of services available
and the cost of each. No massage therapist shall offer or perform any service
other than those posted or listed.
   (4)   Complementary and alternative health care client bill of rights. Prior
to providing therapeutic massage services, the licensee or a designated
employee or individual identified in §
616.04(1)(a) must provide clients with the complementary and alternative health
care client bill of rights as stated by Minnesota Statutes, must have the
client sign a written statement attesting that the client has received the
statement, and must comply with all other requirements of state law in M.S. Ch.
146A or other applicable law. The licensee or a designated employee or
individual identified in § 616.04(1)(a) must post a copy as required by law and
ensure compliance with the statutory provisions.
   (5)   Compliance with law. The licensee, employees, and individuals
identified in §
616.04(1)(a) shall comply with applicable ordinances, regulations, and laws of
the city, the State of Minnesota, and the United States.
   (6)   Hours of operation. Massage therapists shall not perform therapeutic
massage services, nor shall clients be permitted on a premises, between the
hours of 10:30 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (7)   Posting of license. The license, if granted, shall state on its face
the name of the licensee, the expiration date, and the address of the premises.
The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to
the premises so that it may be easily read at any time. Transient individual
massage therapists must provide a copy of their current license when performing
therapeutic massage services within the city upon request.
   (8)   Transfer of license prohibited. A licensee shall not transfer his or
her license to another, nor shall a licensee change the location of a premises
under authority of a license, without providing the city with notice of a
change in location prior to such a change occurring.
   (9)   Windows. The exterior windows of the commercial premises must not be
100% opaque during hours that the premises is open for business, except for
windows in massage rooms and restrooms.
   (10)   Advertising. No licensee shall advertise through any media that is
classified for adults only or for sexually oriented business or similar
classification, or use any advertising that refers to therapeutic massage
services as appealing to or satisfying an erotic or prurient interest, lust,
sexual, or passionate desire.
   (11)   Clients. Clients shall at all times have his or her anus,
intergluteal cleft (buttocks crease) and genitals covered with clothing or
properly draped with non-transparent material. The person who is receiving
massage therapy of the breast or buttocks (gluteal) shall have the breast or
buttock (gluteal muscle) that is not then immediately receiving massage therapy
properly covered and draped with non- transparent material.
   (12)   Habitation. Massage enterprises shall not contain nor allow the use
by any person of sleeping quarters or living spaces of any kind intended for
habitation, including, but not limited to, beds, cots, or mattresses.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 12-11-2017; Am. Ord. 13-18, passed 9-24-2018)
§ 616.08 INSPECTION.
   (1)   Inspection access. The applicant or licensee shall permit the
Director, or his/her authorized representative, to inspect the premises for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time the therapeutic
massage business is occupied or open for business.
   (2)   Requirements. The applicant and licensee shall meet the following
requirements.
      (a)   A therapeutic massage business must take reasonable steps to
prevent the spread of infections and communicable diseases on the premises.
      (b)   Premises must be equipped with adequate and conveniently located
toilet room(s) for the accommodation of its employees and clients. The toilet
room(s) must be well ventilated by natural or mechanical methods and be
enclosed with a door. The toilet room(s) must be kept clean and in good repair
and be fully and adequately illuminated.
      (c)   A therapeutic massage business must provide single service disposal
paper or clean linens to cover the table, chair, furniture, or area on which
the client receives the therapeutic massage services and must be sanitized
after each administration of therapeutic massage services.
      (d)   Therapeutic massage tables, chairs, or furniture on which the
client receives therapeutic massage services must have surfaces that can be
readily cleaned and disinfected after each massage. All modalities shall be
performed on a raised massage therapy table or chair; no bed, mattress, or
similar type of equipment shall be allowed onsite.
      (e)   The massage therapist must wash his or her hands and arms with
water and soap, antibacterial scrubs, alcohol, or other disinfectants prior to
and following each administration of therapeutic massage services.
      (f)   Rooms in a premises must be fully and adequately illuminated.
      (g)   A premises must have a janitor's closet that provides for the
storage of cleaning supplies.
      (h)   Premises must provide adequate refuse receptacles.
      (i)   Premises must be maintained in good repair and sanitary condition.
      (j)   Premises must comply with the requirements of M.S. §§ 144.411 et
seq.
      (k)   Any massage therapist shall at all times be dressed professionally.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 12-11-2017; Am. Ord. 13-18, passed 9-24-2018)
§ 616.09 GROUNDS FOR SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (1)   Suspension. The City Council may suspend a license for a period not to
exceed 60 days if it is determined that a licensee, an employee, or an
individual identified in §
616.04(1)(a) has:
      (a)   Violated any provisions of this chapter;
      (b)   Engaged in excessive use of alcoholic beverages or use of illegal
drugs while on the premises, or prior to or while administering therapeutic
massage services;
      (c)   Refused to allow an inspection of the premises as authorized by
this chapter; or
      (d)   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage the therapeutic massage
business in a peaceful and law abiding manner thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
   (2)   Revocation. The City Council may revoke a license if a cause of
suspension in division (1) occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding 12 months, or if any of the following are true:
      (a)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (b)   A licensee, employee, or individual identified in §
616.04(1)(a) knowingly allowed illegal possession, use, or sale of controlled
substances on the premises;
      (c)   A licensee, employee, or individual identified in §
616.04(1)(a) knowingly operated the therapeutic massage business during a
period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      (d)   A licensee is convicted of, charged, or arrested for any offense
listed in §
616.06, or if any of divisions (3), (5), or (6) of §
616.06 are true;
      (e)   A licensee permits an employee to perform therapeutic massage
services for the therapeutic massage business, when the licensee knows that
person has been charged or convicted of any offense listed in §
616.06, or, with respect to that person, if any of divisions (3), (5), or (6)
of §
616.06 are true; or
      (f)   The licensee is delinquent in his or her payments to the city of
taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him or her.
   (3)   Conviction appeal. A pending appeal of a conviction shall have no
effect on, nor an appeal of anything in divisions (3), (5) or (6) of §
616.06 shall have no bearing on, the suspension or revocation.
   (4)   Neither the charging of a criminal violation nor a criminal conviction
is required in order for the City Council or issuing authority to impose an
administrative penalty or suspend, deny, or revoke a license.
   (5)   Previous license infractions. In the event there is a license
infraction or a pending citation involving a licensed establishment and/or a
licensed massage therapist, the city may, at its option, choose to not take
action on any license or renewal application until such infraction or pending
citation has been resolved. The applicant for a massage enterprise license or
massage therapist license may not be eligible to reapply for a license for a
period of five years if the licensee is arrested, charged, or convicted of any
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 12-11-2017; Am. Ord. 13-18, passed 9-24-2018)
§ 616.10 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE FOR VIOLATIONS.
   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, may immediately suspend a
license, pending a hearing before the City Council, if the licensee, or any
person working on behalf of the licensee, is determined to be conducting
business in an unlawful manner, any manner that constitutes a breach of the
peace, or a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare fo the public, or
after repeated complaints received regarding conduct of business practices or
method of solicitation.
(Ord. 13-18, passed 9-24-2018)
CHAPTER 617: EDIBLE CANNABINOID PRODUCTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Chapter has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 01-25, adopted 2-25-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
Section
   
617.01   Purpose
   
617.02   Application of Chapter 601
   
617.03   Definitions
   
617.04   License required
   
617.05   Ineligible for license
   
617.06   Application for license
   
617.07   Fee
   
617.08   Issuance
   
617.09   Term of license
   
617.10   Renewals
   
617.11   Prohibited acts
   
617.12   Compliance checks
   
617.13   Licensee responsibility
   
617.14   Days and hours
   
617.15   Violations and penalty
§ 617.01 PURPOSE.
   The City of Lino Lakes recognizes that many persons under the age of 21
years purchase or otherwise obtain, possess, and use edible cannabinoid
products. Sales, possession, and use of edible cannabinoid products by persons
under 21 is a violation of state and federal laws. Further, the City of Lino
Lakes recognizes the consumption of edible cannabinoid products preceding the
operation of a motor vehicle results in a danger to public safety in the form
of intoxicated drivers. This chapter is intended to regulate the sales and
possession of edible cannabinoid products by persons under 21 and limit the
impact on public safety from intoxicated individuals.
(Ord. 03-22, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 617.02 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER 601.
   The provisions of
Chapter 601 shall apply to the issuance of licenses hereunder.
(Ord. 03-22, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 617.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided or clearly implied by context all terms shall
be given their commonly accepted definitions. Within this chapter, the
following terms shall have the definitions given to them:
   CONVICTED. Any disposition of a criminal charge that is not a dismissal or
acquittal.
   EDIBLE CANNABINOID PRODUCT. A product that is intended to be eaten or
consumed as a beverage by humans and contains a cannabinoid in combination with
food ingredients and comports with all of the requirements of M.S. §151.72 or
its progeny.
   PERSON. Individuals, partnerships, corporations, or any other legal entity.
   PRIMARY PLACE OF BUSINESS. The physical location where the edible
cannabinoid product will be sold; the primary place of business must be a
permanent building with a mailing address.
   SCHOOL. A public or nonpublic elementary or secondary school.
   SELL. Sell, give away, barter, deliver, exchange, distribute or dispose of
to another or to offer or agree to perform any of the aforementioned.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses a product upon the insertion of money, tokens, or other
form of payment directly into the machine by the person seeking to purchase the
product.
(Ord. 03-22, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 617.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall directly or indirectly deal in, sell, or offer for sale any
edible cannabinoid product in the city without first obtaining a license under
this chapter and paying the associated fees.
(Ord. 03-22, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 617.05 INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No license under this chapter will be issued to or held by:
   (1)   Any person whose primary place of business will be within 1,000 feet
of a school or church.
   (2)   Any person manufacturing edible cannabinoid product on the same
premises as the retail sales; unless retail sales are conducted in a separate
area of the premises with a separate entrance/exit from the manufacturing
operation.
   (3)   Any person who does not have a primary place of business. No door-to-
door sales or pop-up vendors of edible cannabinoid product is allowed.
   (4)   Any person who has been convicted of a violation of M.S. Ch. 152.
   (5)   Any person who has been convicted of illegal acts involving alcohol,
tobacco, or M.S. § 151.72.
   (6)   Any person under the age of 21.
(Ord. 03-22, passed 10-24-2022; Am. Ord. 07-23, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 617.06 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for a license under this chapter shall be made to the City
Clerk in writing on a form provided by the city.
   (1)   Application form. The application must include the following:
      (a)   Applicant's full name and date of birth.
      (b)   Applicant's residence address and telephone number.
      (c)   Applicant's primary place of business address and telephone number.
      (d)   Name of applicant's business.
      (e)   Kind of business being conducted or to be conducted.
      (f)   Whether the applicant has been charged within the preceding five
years of violating any federal, state, or local laws relating to the sale of
tobacco, vaping products, alcohol, or THC products and the circumstances which
lead to any charge.
      (g)   Such other information as required by the city.
      (h)   Proof of liability insurance.
   (2)   Application fee. The license fee shall be paid in full before the
application for a license is accepted. All fees shall be paid into the general
fund of the city. Upon rejection of any application for a license or withdrawal
of the application for approval, the fee shall be refunded to the applicant,
less costs for processing.
(Ord. 03-22, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 617.07 FEE.
   Application and license fees for licenses issued pursuant to this chapter
shall be established from time to time by ordinance of the City Council and in
the city fee schedule. Fees shall be sufficient to cover the costs of
investigating and issuing a license and the anticipated expenses and costs of
enforcing this chapter. Fees shall be prorated on a monthly basis and the
commencement of a license period may be stayed until the purpose for which the
license is granted begins.
(Ord. 03-22, passed 10-24-2022)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 617.08 ISSUANCE.
   The City Council may either approve or deny the license, or it may delay
action for a reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
City Council shall approve the license, the City Clerk shall issue the license
to the applicant.
(Ord. 03-22, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 617.09 TERM OF LICENSE.
   Each license shall be issued for a period of one year, except, that if the
application is made during the license year, a license may be issued for the
remainder of the year for a pro-rata fee with any unexpired fraction of a month
being counted as one month. Every license shall expire on the last day of June.
(Ord. 03-22, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 617.10 RENEWALS.
   The request for a renewal shall be made at least 30 days, but no more than
60 days, before the expiration of the current license. The issuance of a
license pursuant to this chapter shall be considered a privilege and not an
absolute right of the applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an
automatic renewal of the license.
(Ord. 03-22, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 617.11 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   A license holder or anyone acting under the license holders' authority,
express or implied, may not do the following:
   (1)   Sell an edible cannabinoid product to any individual who is not at
least 21 years of age.
   (2)   Allow an edible cannabinoid product to be consumed at their primary
place of business.
   (3)   Sell any product which does not comply with M.S. §151.72 or its
progeny.
   (4)   Allow any person under the age of 18 to sell an edible cannabinoid
product.
   (5)   Sell an edible cannabinoid product through any vending machine.
   (6)   Provide delivery services for an edible cannabinoid product.
   (7)   Sell edible cannabinoid products through internet sales.
(Ord. 03-22, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 617.12 COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the City Police or
other authorized city official during regular business hours. From time to
time, but at least once per year, the city shall conduct compliance checks by
engaging persons at least 17 years of age, but less than 21 years of age, to
enter each licensed premises to attempt to purchase edible cannabinoid
products. Prior written consent from a parent or guardian is required for any
person under the age of 18 to participate in a compliance check. Persons used
for the purpose of compliance checks shall be supervised by city designated law
enforcement officers or other designated city personnel. No persons used in
compliance checks shall attempt to use a false identification misrepresenting
the person's age, and all persons lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall
answer all questions about the person's age asked by the licensee or his or her
employee and shall produce any identification, if any exists, for which he or
she is asked. Nothing in this section shall prohibit compliance checks
authorized by state or federal laws for educational, research, training
purposes or required for enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(Ord. 03-22, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 617.13 LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of edible cannabinoid products on the
licensed premises, and the sale of such an item by an employee shall be
considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this section shall be
construed as prohibiting the city from also subjecting the clerk to whatever
penalties are appropriate under this chapter, state or federal law, or other
applicable law or regulation. Licensees must comply with all other state and
local laws and ordinances.
(Ord. 03-22, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 617.14 DAYS AND HOURS.
   No sale of edible cannabinoid products may be made:
   (1)   On Sundays, except between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.;
   (2)   Before 8:00 a.m. on Monday through Saturday;
   (3)   After 10:00 p.m. on Monday through Saturday;
   (4)   On Thanksgiving Day;
   (5)   On December 25; and
   (6)   After 8:00 p.m. on December 24.
(Ord. 03-22, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 617.15 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   (1)   Administrative civil penalties -- individuals. If a person who is not
a licensee is found to have violated this chapter, the person shall be charged
an administrative penalty as follows:
      (a)   First violation. The Council shall impose a civil fine not to
exceed $50.
      (b)   Second violation within 12 months. The Council shall impose a civil
fine not to exceed $100.
      (c)   Third violation within 12 months. The Council shall impose a civil
fine not to exceed $150.
   (2)   Same -- licensee. If a licensee or an employee of a licensee is found
to have violated this chapter, the licensee shall be charged an administrative
penalty as follows:
      (a)   First violation. The Council shall impose a civil fine of $500 and
suspend the license for not less than one day.
      (b)   Second violation within 36 months. The Council shall impose a civil
fine of $1,000 and suspend the license for not less than three consecutive
days.
      (c)   Third violation within 36 months. The Council shall impose a civil
fine of $2,000 and suspend the license for not less than ten consecutive days.
      (d)   Fourth violation within 36 months. The Council shall revoke the
license for at least one year.
   (3)   Administrative penalty procedures. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this section:
      (a)   Any of the administrative civil penalties set forth in this section
that may be imposed by the Council, may in the alternative be imposed by an
administrative citation.
      (b)   If one of the foregoing penalties is imposed by an action of the
Council, no penalty shall take effect until the licensee or person has received
notice (served personally or by mail) of the alleged violation and of the
opportunity for a hearing before the Council, and such notice must be in
writing and must provide that a right to a hearing before the Council must be
requested within ten business days of receipt of the notice or such right shall
terminate.
   (4)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 03-22, passed 10-24-2022)
700: LIQUOR AND BEER
      Chapter
         
701.   LIQUOR LICENSING
         
702.   RESERVED
         
703.   CABARET LICENSING
CHAPTER 701: LIQUOR LICENSING
Section
   
701.01   State liquor licensing law
   
701.02   License required
   
701.03   Application for license
   
701.04   License fees
   
701.05   Granting of license
   
701.06   Persons ineligible for license
   
701.07   Places ineligible for license
   
701.08   Conditions of the license
   
701.09   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
701.10   Revocation, denial or suspension
   
701.11   Nudity on premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
701.12   Compliance checks
   
701.13   Violations and penalty
§ 701.01 STATE LIQUOR LICENSING LAW.
   (1)   Provisions of state law adopted. The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as
it may be amended from time to time, with reference to definitions of terms,
applications for license, granting of license, conditions of license,
restriction on consumption, provision of sales, conditions of bonds of license,
hours of sales and all other matters pertaining to the retail sale,
distribution and consumption of intoxicating liquor, are hereby adopted and
made a part of this chapter as if fully set out herein. It is the intention of
the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
chapter was adopted.
   (2)   City may be more restrictive than state law. The Council is authorized
by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be amended from time to time,
to impose and has imposed in this chapter, additional restrictions on the sale
and possession of alcoholic beverages within its limits beyond those contained
in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 701.01) (Am. Ord. 13-02, passed 10-28-2002)
§ 701.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (1)   General requirements.
      (a)   No person, except a wholesaler or manufacturer, to the extent
authorized under state license, shall directly or indirectly deal in, sell or
keep for sale in the city any intoxicating liquor without first obtaining a
license to do so as provided in this chapter. Each license shall be issued for
a maximum period of one year, expiring on June 30 of each year. All licenses
shall expire on the same date, except temporary licenses that shall expire
according to their terms. Liquor licenses shall be of nine kinds:
         1.   On-sale;
         2.   On-sale wine;
         3.   On-sale 3.2% malt liquor;
         4.   Off-sale 3.2% malt liquor;
         5.   Off-sale;
         6.   Club license;
         7.   Sunday on-sale;
         8.   Temporary set-up license;
         9.   Temporary on-sale;
         10.   On-sale brewer taproom; and
         11.   Off-sale growler.
      (b)   For the purposes of this chapter, the term RESTAURANT is defined as
an eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a single
proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the premises,
where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a customer orders
food from printed menus and where the main food course is served and consumed
while seated at a single location. To be a restaurant as defined by this
chapter, an establishment shall have a license from the state as required by
M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet the definition
of either a “small establishment,” “medium establishment” or “large
establishment” as defined in M.S. § 157.16, Subd. 3d, as it may be amended from
time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that receives heat
treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is heated and
served, shall not be considered to be a restaurant for the purposes of this
chapter unless it meets the definitions of an establishment under M.S. §
157.16, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (2)   On-sale license. On-sale licenses shall be issued only to hotels,
clubs, restaurants and exclusive liquor stores and shall permit on-sale of
liquor only.
   (3)   On-sale wine license.
      (a)   On-sale wine licenses. On-sale wine license shall be issued only to
restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25 guests at one time and
meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time
to time and which meet the definition of restaurant in division (1)(b) above
and shall permit only the sale of wine for consumption on the licensed premises
only in conjunction with the sale of food.
      (b)   Strong beer sales in conjunction with wine and 3.2% beer licenses.
Licensees who hold both an on-sale wine license and an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor
license and whose gross receipts are at least 60% attributable to the sale of
food may sell intoxicating malt liquor (strong beer) at on-sale without an
additional license, as allowed by M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 5, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (4)   On-sale 3.2% malt liquor license. On-sale 3.2% malt liquor means malt
liquor containing not less than one-half of one percent alcohol by volume nor
more than 3.2% alcohol by weight. License may be granted only to golf courses,
bona fide clubs, beer stores, exclusive on-sale liquor stores, restaurants and
hotels where food is prepared and served for consumption on the premises. On-
sale licenses shall permit the sale for consumption on the premises only.
   (5)   Off-sale 3.2% malt liquor license. Off-sale 3.2% malt liquor licenses
shall permit the sale of 3.2% malt liquor at retail in the original package for
consumption off the premises only.
   (6)   Off-sale license. Off-sale licenses shall be issued only to exclusive
liquor stores and shall permit off-sale of liquor only. Off-sale liquor may be
conducted on Sundays. All Sunday off-sale liquor sales must be made between the
hours of 11:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
   (7)   Club license. Club licenses shall be issued only to incorporated clubs
which have been in existence for 15 years or more, or to congressionally
chartered veterans’ organizations which have been in existence for ten years,
and shall permit on-sale of liquor to members and bona fide guests only.
   (8)   Sunday on-sale license. Sunday on-sale licenses may be issued to any
hotel, restaurant or club which has facilities for serving at least 30 guests
at one time and meets the definition of restaurant in division (1)(b) above,
and which has an on-sale license and shall permit on-sale of liquor on Sunday
in conjunction with the serving of meals only. A special license authorizing
sales on Sunday may be issued to a license holder of an on-sale brewer taproom
license for the operation of a taproom on Sundays.
   (9)   Temporary set up license. A one-day intoxicating liquor consumption
and display permit may be issued to any non-profit organization in connection
with a social activity occurring within the city and sponsored by the
organization. No more than ten licenses shall be issued in the city in any
year. The fee for the license shall be as established in the city fee schedule.
A permit shall allow consumption or display of intoxicating liquor and the
serving of liquids for the purpose of mixing with intoxicating liquor, but
shall not allow the sale of intoxicating liquor. This permit shall be valid
only for the day indicated on it. No permit issued pursuant to this division
shall be valid unless first approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   (10)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor license.
License may be issued only in connection with a social event sponsored by a
club, charitable, religious or other non-profit corporation that has existed
for at least three years. No license shall be for longer than four consecutive
days and the city shall issue no more than 12 days worth of temporary licenses
to any one organization in one calendar year. No permit issued pursuant to this
division shall be valid unless first approved by the Commissioner of Public
Safety.
   (11)   On-sale brewer taproom. On-sale brewer taproom license authorizes on-
sale of malt liquor produced by the brewer for consumption on the premises of
or adjacent to one brewery location owned by the brewer, subject to the
restrictions of this chapter and M.S. § 340A.301, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   (12)   Off-sale growler. An off-sale growler license authorizes off-sale of
malt liquor produced by a brewer and packaged in 64-ounce or 750-milliliter
containers that are designed, sealed and labeled pursuant to M.S. § 340A.301,
as it may be amended from time to time. Only brewers licensed under M.S. §
340A.301(i) or (j) are eligible for an off-sale growler license, subject to the
limitations set forth in statute. The off-sale of growlers may be conducted on
Sundays. All Sunday growler sales must be made between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 701.02) (Am. Ord. 3-83, passed 7-11-1983; Am. Ord. 13-99, passed
6-14-1999; Am. Ord. 05-04, passed 3-22-2004; Am. Ord. 20-11, passed 10-10-2011;
Am. Ord. 04-12, passed 3-12-2012; Am. Ord. 08-14, passed 9-22-2014; Am. Ord.
05-15, passed 7-27-2015; Am. Ord. 03-17, passed 6-26-2017; Am. Ord. 05-22,
passed 12-12-2022)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 701.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (1)   Forms.
      (a)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter
shall be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name
of the applicant, the applicant's age, representations as to the applicant's
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in
business at that place and other information as the Council may require. An
application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall be in the form
prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also contain the
information required in this section. The form shall be verified and filed with
the city. No person shall make a false statement in an application.
      (b)   Description of premises. The application shall specifically
describe the compact and contiguous premises within which liquor may be
dispensed and consumed. Sale and consumption of intoxicating liquors on
premises with an on-sale license is limited to within the building at the
address designated on the license unless the license specifically grants
permission for sale and consumption outside of the building. Any area outside
of the building where liquor will be served, such as a patio, garden or
sidewalk area, must be described on the license, must be contiguous to the
building and must be covered by liability insurance. The description may not
include any parking lot or sidewalk.
   (2)   Liability insurance. Prior to the issuance of a liquor license or a
wine license, the applicant shall file with the City Clerk a liability
insurance policy in the minimum amount of $100,000 coverage for one person and
$300,000 coverage for more than one person, which shall comply with provisions
of M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, relating to the
liability insurance policies. The liability insurance policies shall further
provide that no cancellation of the same for any cause can be made either by
the insured or the insurance company without first giving ten days notice to
the city in writing. The operation of a licensed premises without having on
file at all times with the city the required liability insurance policy shall
be grounds for immediate revocation of license.
(Prior Code, § 701.03) (Am. Ord. 08-91, passed 5-28-1991; Am. Ord. 13-99,
passed 6-14-1999; Am. Ord. 03-10, passed 3-8-2010)
§ 701.04 LICENSE FEES.
   (1)   Amounts. The annual fee for liquor licenses shall be as stated in the
annual fee schedule adopted by the City Council. The license fee may not exceed
the cost of issuing the license and other costs directly related to the
enforcement of the liquor laws and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be
increased without providing mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase
to all affected licensees at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (2)   Payment. Each application for a liquor license shall be accompanied by
a receipt from the City Clerk for payment in full of the license fee and the
fixed investigation fee required under §
701.05(1). All fees shall be paid into the general fund. If an application for
a license is rejected, the City Clerk shall refund the amount paid as the
license fee.
   (3)   Term, pro-rata fee. Each license shall be issued for a period of one
year, except, that if the application is made during the license year, a
license may be issued for the remainder of the year for a pro-rata fee with any
unexpired fraction of a month being counted as one month. Every license shall
expire on the last day of June.
   (4)   Refunds. A refund of a pro-rata share of an annual license fee may
occur only if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(Prior Code, § 701.03) (Am. Ord. 13-02, passed 10-28-2002)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 701.05 GRANTING OF LICENSE.
   (1)   Preliminary investigation.
      (a)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and on
an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a preliminary
background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may contract with
the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The applicant shall
pay with the application an investigation fee that is established in the city’s
fee schedule, which shall be in addition to any license fee. The results of the
preliminary investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if
the application is for an on-sale liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
      (b)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the
results of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the
Council, a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the city may
either conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of
Public Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this
comprehensive background and financial investigation shall be the same amount
as the fee established for the preliminary investigation, unless the
investigation is required out of the state in which case the fee shall be
$10,000. The unused balance of the fee for a comprehensive background and
financial investigation shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid by the applicant and in advance of
any investigation and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall
not be refundable in the event the application is denied. The results of the
comprehensive investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety
if the application is for an on-sale liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
      (c)   Inspection of premises. The applicant shall at all times permit the
health officers and representatives of the Police and Fire Departments to
inspect and examine the place of business described in the application,
together with all appliances, instruments or equipment used or to be used in
the conduct of the business for which the license is sought and any refusal on
the part of the applicant to permit the inspection or any false statement in
the application shall be sufficient ground for the refusal to issue the license
or to revoke the same after issuance thereof.
   (2)   Hearing and issuance. The Council shall investigate all facts set out
in the application and not investigated in the preliminary background and
financial investigation. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard
for or against the granting of the license. After the investigation and
hearing, the Council shall, in its discretion, grant or refuse the application.
No on-sale, on-sale wine license, off-sale license or club license shall become
effective until it, together with the security furnished by the applicant has
been approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   (3)   Transfers. Each license shall be issued only to the applicant and for
the premises described in the application. No license shall be transferred to
another person or place without Council approval. An application to transfer a
license shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all
of the provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall
apply. The transfer of any stock of a corporate licensee shall be deemed a
transfer of the license, and any transfer of any stock without prior Council
approval shall render the license void.
   (4)   Corporate license. Licenses may be issued to a partnership or a
corporation.
(Prior Code, § 701.05)
   (5)   Council discretion. The Council in its sound discretion may either
grant or deny the application for any license or for the transfer or renewal of
any license. No applicant has a right to a license under this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 13-99, passed 6-14-1999)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 701.06 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No license shall be granted to any person made ineligible for the license by
state law. No more than one intoxicating liquor license shall be directly or
indirectly issued within the city to any one person, unless the additional
intoxicating liquor licenses are on-sale licenses issued to restaurants, as
defined in §
701.02(1)(b).
(Prior Code, § 701.06) (Am. Ord. 13-99, passed 6-14-1999; Am. Ord. 02-15,
passed 6-22-2015)
§ 701.07 PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (1)   General. No license shall be issued for any place of any business
ineligible for a license under state law.
   (2)   Delinquent taxes and charges. No license shall be granted for
operation on any premises for which taxes, assessments or other financial
claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (3)   Distance from school or church. No license shall be granted within
1,000 feet of any school or within 1,000 feet of any church. The distance shall
be measured from the main entrance of the school or church to the main entrance
of the applicant's place of business.
      (a)   For the purposes of the separation restriction in this division, a
school is a building that is principally used as a place where 25 or more
persons receive a full course of educational instruction and the educational
instruction is provided on a daily basis by an established school board or
church. This does not include any post-secondary or post-high school
educational building, including any college or any vocational-technical
college. Nor does the separation apply to a daycare or early childhood
facility, where children typically are under constant supervision while at the
facility and when traveling to and from the facility.
      (b)   The establishment of a school or church within the separation
distance after an original liquor license application has been granted shall
not, in and of itself, render the premises ineligible for renewal of the
license.
      (c)   This separation distance restriction shall not be applicable if a
school or church is located in a limited business or general business zoning
district.
(Prior Code, § 701.07) (Am. Ord. 13-99, passed 6-14-1999; Am. Ord. 04-09,
passed 8-10-2009)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 701.08 CONDITIONS OF THE LICENSE.
   (1)   General. Every license is subject to the conditions in the following
divisions and all other provisions of this chapter and of any other applicable
ordinance, state law or regulation.
   (2)   Licensee responsibility. Every licensee shall be responsible for the
conduct of his or her place of business and the conditions of sobriety and
order in it, including within any outdoor serving area. The act of any employee
on the licensed premises authorized to sell intoxicating liquor there is deemed
the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee shall be liable to all
penalties provided by ordinance, statute or regulation equally with the
employee.
   (3)   Inspections. Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health
officer or properly designated officer or employee of the city to enter,
inspect and search the licensed premises during business hours without a
warrant.
   (4)   Display hours. No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the
public during hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (5)   Federal stamps. No licensee shall possess a federal wholesale liquor
dealers special tax stamp or a federal gambling stamp.
(Prior Code, § 701.08)
   (6)   Minors on premises. No person under the age of 18 years shall be
employed in any rooms constituting the place in which liquors are sold at
retail on-sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be employed as
musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person, host or dishwashing
services in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multi-purpose
building serving food in rooms in which liquors are sold at retail on-sale.
   (7)   Deliveries. No delivery of alcohol to an off-sale license may be made
by a wholesaler or accepted by an off-sale licensee on a Sunday. No order
solicitation or merchandising may be made by a wholesale on a Sunday.
(Am. Ord. 03-10, passed 3-8-2010; Am. Ord. 03-17, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 701.09 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   (1)   Liquor in unlicensed places. No person shall mix or prepare liquor for
consumption in any public place or place of business unless it has a license to
sell liquor on-sale or a permit from the Commissioner of Public Safety under
M.S. § 340A.414, as it may be amended from time to time. No person shall
consume liquor in any place, unless licensed or permitted.
   (2)   Consumption in public places. No person shall consume intoxicating
liquor in a public park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley
or in any public place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed
under this chapter, or where consumption and display of liquor is lawfully
permitted.
   (3)   Hours. No on-sale or off-sale of liquor shall be made, nor any
licensed premises be occupied, after 2:00 a.m. on Sunday nor until 8:00 a.m. on
Monday, except that a holder of a Sunday on-sale license may sell liquor
between 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m on Mondays and the holder of a off-
sale license may sell liquor between 11:00 a..m. and 6:00 p.m. on Sunday. No
on-sale shall be made between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any
weekday. No on-sale shall be made after 8:00 p.m. on December 24. No off-sale
shall be made before 8:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. of any day except that no
off-sale shall be made on December 24 after 8:00 p.m. No off-sale shall be made
on Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day, December 25.
(Am. Ord. 10-83, passed 10-11-1983; Am. Ord. 13-83, passed 12-27-1983.; Am.
Ord. 02-05, passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 04-15, passed 7-27-2015; Am. Ord. 03-17,
passed 6-26-2017)
   (4)   Vacation of premises. No licensee shall permit any person other than
his or her employees to remain on the licensed premises more than 30 minutes
after the time during which sales of liquor may legally be made. No person
other than the licensee or his or her employees shall remain on the licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time during which sales of liquor may
legally be made. The presence of any person other than the licensee or his or
her employees within, entering or leaving the premises more than 30 minutes
after the time during which liquor may legally be sold shall be prima facie
evidence of violation of this division. For purposes of this division, PREMISES
shall mean any portion of the address or legal description to which the license
is issued, including, but not limited to, the entire land area of the parcel,
the interior or exterior of buildings or portions of buildings thereon, any
entrance ways into any buildings, any sidewalk, parking lots, whether paved or
not, and any adjoining unimproved land areas in the parcels.
(Prior Code, § 701.09) (Am. Ord. 13-83, passed 12-27-1983; Am. Ord. 11-89,
passed 12-11-1989; Am. Ord. 13-02, passed 10-28-2002)
§ 701.10 REVOCATION, DENIAL OR SUSPENSION.
   (1)   General. A license issued or to be issued by the city may be denied,
suspended or revoked by the City Council for any of the following causes:
      (a)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement contained in the
application for license or made in carrying on the licenses activity;
      (b)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor, pertaining to license held
or applied for, subject to the provisions of M.S. Ch. 364, as it may be amended
from time to time;
      (c)   Conducting a licensed activity in a manner as to constitute a
breach of the peace, or a menace to the health, safety and welfare of the
public, or a disturbance of the peace or comfort of the residents of the city,
upon recommendation of the city health authorities or other appropriate city
official;
      (d)   Expiration or cancellation of any required bond or insurance, or
failure to notify the city within a reasonable time of changes in the terms of
the insurance or the carriers;
      (e)   Actions unauthorized or beyond the scope of the license granted;
      (f)   Violation of any regulation or provision of this code applicable to
the activity for which the license has been granted or any regulation or law of
the state so applicable; or
      (g)   Failure to continuously comply with all conditions as required as
precedent to the approval of the license.
   (2)   Suspension pending a hearing. The Council may for cause, when in its
judgment the public health, safety and welfare is endangered and without
advance notice, temporarily suspend any license pending a hearing on revocation
for a period not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 701.10) (Am. Ord. 13-02, passed 10-28-2002; Am. Ord. 05-22,
passed 12-12-2022)
§ 701.11 NUDITY ON PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (1)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the public
in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and combination of
alcohol, nudity and sex. The Council especially intends to prevent any
subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to lead to the
possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution, sexual assault
and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the prohibition of nudity
on the premises of any establishment licensed under this chapter, as set forth
in this section, reflects the prevailing community standards of the city.
   (2)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts and genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (3)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine or
3.2% malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of §
701.10.
§ 701.12 COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the city police or
other authorized city official during regular business hours. From time to
time, but at least once per year, the city shall conduct compliance checks by
engaging persons at least 17 years of age, but less than 21 years of age, to
enter each licensed premises to attempt to purchase intoxicating liquor. Prior
written consent from a parent or guardian is required for any person under the
age of 18 to participate in a compliance check. Persons used for the purpose of
compliance checks shall be supervised by city designated law enforcement
officers or other designated city personnel. No persons used in compliance
checks shall attempt to use a false identification misrepresenting the person’s
age, and all persons lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all
questions about the person’s age asked by the licensee or his or her employee
and shall produce any identification, if any exists, for which he or she is
asked. Nothing in this section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by
state or federal laws for educational, research, training purposes or required
for enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(Ord. 05-22, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 701.13 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   (1)   Administrative civil penalties -- individuals. If a person who is not
a licensee is found to have violated this chapter, the person shall be charged
an administrative penalty as follows:
      (a)   First violation. The Council shall impose a civil fine not to
exceed $50.
      (b)   Second violation within 12 months. The Council shall impose a civil
fine not to exceed $100.
      (c)   Third violation within 12 months. The Council shall impose a civil
fine not to exceed $150.
   (2)   Same -- licensee. If a licensee or an employee of a licensee is found
to have violated this chapter, the licensee shall be charged an administrative
penalty as follows:
      (a)   First violation. The Council shall impose a civil fine of $500 and
suspend the license for not less than one day.
      (b)   Second violation within 36 months. The Council shall impose a civil
fine of $1,000 and suspend the license for not less than three consecutive
days.
      (c)   Third violation within 36 months. The Council shall impose a civil
fine of $2,000 and suspend the license for not less than ten consecutive days.
      (d)   Fourth violation within 36 months. The Council shall revoke the
license for at least one year.
   (3)   Administrative penalty procedures. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this section:
      (a)   Any of the administrative civil penalties set forth in this section
that may be imposed by the Council, may in the alternative be imposed by an
administrative citation.
      (b)   If one of the foregoing penalties is imposed by an action of the
Council, no penalty shall take effect until the licensee or person has received
notice (served personally or by mail) of the alleged violation and of the
opportunity for a hearing before the Council, and such notice must be in
writing and must provide that a right to a hearing before the Council must be
requested within ten business days of receipt of the notice or such right shall
terminate.
   (4)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 05-22, passed 12-12-2022)
CHAPTER 702: RESERVED
CHAPTER 703: CABARET LICENSING
Section
   
703.01   License required
   
703.02   Issuance of license
   
703.03   Term and fee
§ 703.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person to whom an on-sale beer or on-sale intoxicating liquor license has
been issued shall permit on the licensed premises any dancing in which the
public participates, or any dancing, singing, stage show or other entertainment
unless a cabaret license has also been issued for the premises. This section
shall not prohibit the use of radios, televisions or juke boxes on premises
licensed for the on-sale of beer or intoxicating liquor, provided a nuisance is
not created or any other ordinance violated thereby.
(Prior Code, § 703.01)
§ 703.02 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (1)   A cabaret license for dancing within a structure shall be submitted to
the City Clerk for review and approval by the City Council.
   (2)   A cabaret license application for all other entertainment allowed
hereunder including dancing outdoors shall be submitted by the license
applicant to the City Clerk for review and processing and then be submitted for
consideration and approval by the City Council at a regular scheduled City
Council meeting. Upon approval, a cabaret license shall be issued by the City
Clerk upon payment of the proper cabaret license fee.
   (3)   The City Council may impose conditions, or restrictions concerning the
activities licensed hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 703.02) (Am. Ord. 07-91, passed 6-10-1991)
§ 703.03 TERM AND FEE.
   (1)   Annual. The fee for an annual cabaret license for dancing within a
structure shall be as established in the city fee schedule. All annual cabaret
licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year.
(Am. Ord. 07-91, passed 6-10-1991)
   (2)   Short-term. A cabaret license may be issued for a shorter term for a
fee as established in the city fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 703.03)
800: TRAFFIC
      Chapter
         
801.   WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
         
802.   PARKING
         
803.   EXHIBITION DRIVING
         
804.   STREET OBSTRUCTION
         
805.   DRIVING OFFENSES
         
806.   GENERAL PROVISIONS AND PENALTIES
         
807.   OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
         
808.   MOTORIZED WATERCRAFT
CHAPTER 801: WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
Section
   
801.01   Purpose
   
801.02   Restrictions
   
801.03   Street usage
§ 801.01 PURPOSE.
   The Council finds that by reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other
climatic conditions, city streets at certain times may be seriously damaged or
destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited or the permissible
weights thereof reduced. The purpose of this chapter is to protect city streets
by closing them or restricting weights of vehicles used thereon when necessary.
(Prior Code, § 801.01)
§ 801.02 RESTRICTIONS.
   (1)   Adoption. The Chief of Police, upon the recommendation of the Director
of Public Services, may prohibit the operation of vehicles upon any street
under city jurisdiction or impose weight restrictions on vehicles to be
operated on the street whenever the street, by reason of deterioration, rain,
snow or other climatic conditions, will be seriously damaged or destroyed
unless the use of vehicles on the street is prohibited or the permissible
weights thereof reduced. He or she shall erect and maintain signs plainly
indicating the prohibition or restriction at each end and at any entrance to
that portion of the street affected.
   (2)   Emergency. The Chief of Police may, without the recommendation of the
Director of Public Services, post signs closing or imposing weight restrictions
on any street as provided by division (1); provided that the emergency closing
or restriction shall be effective only for the period of time as may be
reasonable and necessary for the Director of Public Services to examine the
street and make his or her recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 801.02)
§ 801.03 STREET USAGE.
   (1)   Prohibited. Except as provided by division (2) below, no person shall,
on a street which has been posted as provided by §
801.02, operate a vehicle in violation of the prohibition or restriction.
   (2)   Permits. If any person shall desire to use a street which has been
closed pursuant to §
801.02, or to operate a vehicle which exceeds a weight restriction imposed
pursuant to §
801.02, he or she shall apply to the Director of Public Services. The Director
of Public Services may, in his or her discretion, grant permission for the use
upon compliance with the following conditions:
      (a)   The application shall furnish to the city a bond with good and
sufficient surety thereon guaranteeing to secure the payment of all costs of
putting the street in as good condition as it was before the restriction. The
bond shall be approved by the city attorney and shall be in an amount as
recommended by the Director of Public Services; and
      (b)   The applicant shall pay to the city a fee equal to the total cost
to the city of issuing the permit, including all legal fees, engineering fees
and other administrative and investigative costs.
(Prior Code, § 801.03)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
CHAPTER 802: PARKING
Section
   
802.01   No parking, stopping or standing zones
   
802.02   Time limit parking zones
   
802.03   Hazards
   
802.04   Prima facie evidence
   
802.05   Impoundment
   
802.06   Winter parking restrictions
   
802.07   Truck and equipment parking
§ 802.01 NO PARKING, STOPPING OR STANDING ZONES.
   The Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets or portions of
streets as no parking or no stopping or standing zones or as zones for parking
by physically handicapped persons and may limit the hours in which the
restrictions apply. The Chief of Police shall mark by appropriate signs each
zone so designated. Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic
or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control
device, no person shall stop or park a vehicle in an established no stopping or
standing zone when stopping or standing is prohibited. No vehicle shall be
parked in a no parking zone during hours when parking is prohibited by state
law and except that a vehicle may be parked temporarily in the zone for the
purpose of forming a funeral procession and a truck may be parked temporarily
for the purpose of loading or unloading where access to the premises is not
otherwise available.
(Prior Code, § 802.01)
§ 802.02 TIME LIMIT PARKING ZONES.
   (1)   The Council may, by resolution, designate certain areas where the
right to park is limited during hours specified.
   (2)   The Chief of Police shall mark by appropriate signs each zone so
designated.
   (3)   During hours specified on the sign, no person shall park a vehicle in
any limited parking zone for a longer period than is so specified.
(Prior Code, § 802.02)
§ 802.03 HAZARDS.
   No person shall park a vehicle so as to constitute a hazard or interfere
with the maintenance, repair, construction, cleaning or removal of snow, ice,
slush or other items from any street or the shoulders thereof.
(Prior Code, § 802.03)
§ 802.04 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   The presence of any vehicle on any street when standing or parked in
violation of §§
802.01 through
802.03 is prima facie evidence that the registered owner of the vehicle
committed or authorized the commission of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 802.04)
§ 802.05 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any police officer may remove a vehicle from a street to a garage, lot or
other place of safety designated by the Council when the vehicle is left
unattended and constitutes an obstruction to traffic or hinders snow removal or
street improvement or maintenance operations. The vehicle shall not be released
until the fees for towing and storage are paid in addition to any fine imposed
for violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 802.05)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 802.06 WINTER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (1)   Generally.
      (a)   In order to expedite the prompt and efficient removal of snow from
the streets of the city, it is unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park
any vehicle on any public street within the city between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 6:00 a.m. between November 1 and April 1 of each year. Hardship exceptions
are provided for with temporary on-street parking waivers as described below.
      (b)   In addition, parking is not allowed on any public street when two
inches or more of snow has fallen until the street has been plowed. The
official depth for the purpose of this section shall be determined by a duly
appointed city official, whose determination shall be final and not subject to
appeal. Any vehicle parked in violation of this section may be towed pursuant
to M.S. § 169-041, as it may be amended from time to time. A violation of this
section is a petty misdemeanor.
   (2)   Temporary on-street parking waivers. When undue hardship may result
from strict compliance with the winter parking restrictions above, the Lino
Lakes Police Department may issue a temporary overnight parking waiver as
provided herein upon application therefore by the operator of the vehicle.
   (3)   Issuance of temporary waiver. The following shall govern the issuance
and use of temporary overnight parking waivers by the Police Department.
      (a)   Undue hardship. Refusal of the grant would create an unnecessary
and undue hardship.
      (b)   Public health, safety and general welfare. Granting of the waiver
would not present an unreasonable threat to the public health, safety and
general welfare.
      (c)   Temporary circumstances. The circumstances resulting in the request
for a temporary waiver shall be of a temporary nature such as driveway repairs,
social occasions, numerous guests and similar situations where the advantage of
the city having vehicles off the street in the early morning hours is
outweighed by the practical problems created by a prohibition of overnight
parking.
      (d)   Length of waiver. The waiver shall be for a length of time not to
exceed the minimum time necessary to relieve the hardship as determined by the
Police Department.
      (e)   Release of liability. The city shall incur no liability for any
damages to a vehicle parked on a city street per a waiver for overnight
parking.
      (f)   Records. The Police Department will maintain a record of parking
waivers including the nature of the request and the time period for which the
parking waiver was allowed.
      (g)   Application to snow removal. A waiver for on-street parking shall
not be a defense to the violation of this section relating to snow removal
after a two inches or more snowfall.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 9-27-2004)
§ 802.07 TRUCK AND EQUIPMENT PARKING.
   (1)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   BUS.  Motor vehicle designed for carrying more than 15 passengers including
the driver and used for transporting persons.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or
more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems
contained therein.
   PASSENGER AUTOMOBILE. Any motor vehicle designed and used for carrying not
more than 15 individuals, including the driver.
      (a)   PASSENGER AUTOMOBILE does not include motorcycles, motor scooters,
buses, school buses, or commuter vans. Except as provided in division (1)(b) of
this section, a vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of 9,000 to 13,000
pounds that is a pickup truck or a van is not a PASSENGER AUTOMOBILE.
      (b)   PASSENGER AUTOMOBILE includes, but is not limited to a vehicle that
is:
         1.   A pickup truck or a van;
         2.   Not used in furtherance of a commercial enterprise; and
         3.   Not subject to state or federal regulation as a commercial motor
vehicle.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Travel trailers including those that telescope or fold
down, chassis-mounted campers, motor homes, tent trailers, and converted buses
that provide temporary human living quarters.
   SEMITRAILER. A vehicle of the trailer type so designed and used in
conjunction with a truck-tractor that a considerable part of its own weight or
that of its load rests upon and is carried by the truck-tractor and shall
include a trailer drawn by a truck-tractor semitrailer combination.
   SPECIAL MOBILE EQUIPMENT. Every vehicle not designed or used for the
transportation of persons or property and only incidentally operated or moved
over a highway. SPECIAL MOBILE EQUIPMENT includes, but is not limited to:
ditch-digging apparatuses, pump hoists and other water well-drilling equipment,
other road construction or road maintenance machinery, aggregate processing and
conveying equipment, truck-mounted log loaders, and self-propelled cranes.
   TRACTOR. Any motor vehicle designed or used for drawing other vehicles but
having no provision for carrying loads independently.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle designed for carrying property or passengers on its own
structure and for being drawn by a motor vehicle but shall not include a
trailer drawn by a truck-tractor semitrailer combination, or an auxiliary axle
on a motor vehicle which carries a portion of the weight of the motor vehicle
to which it is attached.
   TRUCK. Any motor vehicle designed and used for carrying things other than
passengers.
   TRUCK-TRACTOR. A motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other
vehicles and not constructed to carry a load other than a part of the weight of
the vehicle and load drawn.
   (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or permit to be parked,
on any public street a truck in excess of 12,000 pounds licensed gross vehicle
weight, a truck tractor, semitrailer, bus, manufactured home, recreational
vehicle, special mobile equipment, or trailer.
   (3)   This section shall not apply to any motor vehicle which is actively
loading, unloading or performing a service.
   (4)   No auxiliary motors or engines on any vehicle shall be allowed to
operate except when actively loading, unloading or are being used to perform a
service.
   (5)   Boats and boat trailers are exempt from the provisions of §
802.07(2).
   (6)   Recreational vehicle on-street parking waiver. When undue hardship may
result from strict compliance with the parking restrictions above, a parking
waiver may be issued by the Chief of Police or his or her designated
representative as provided herein upon application therefore by the owner of
the vehicle.
   (7)   Issuance of temporary waiver. The following factors shall be
considered when issuing a recreational vehicle temporary on-street parking
waiver:
      (a)   Zoning compliance. The applicant cannot park on the property upon
which his or her residence is located without violating the zoning laws
relating to permitted off-street parking areas or that the applicant cannot
reasonably or legally drive the subject vehicle to any other place on the
property where his or her residence is located without violating the zoning
laws relating to off-street parking.
      (b)   Public health, safety and general welfare. Granting of the permit
would not present an unreasonable threat to the public health, safety and
general welfare.
      (c)   Length of waiver. The waiver shall be for a length of time not to
exceed two weeks in any calendar month.
      (d)   Release of liability. The city shall incur no liability for any
damages to a vehicle parked on a city street per a waiver for on-street
parking.
      (e)   Records. The Police Department will maintain a record of parking
waivers including the nature of the request and the time period for which the
parking waiver was allowed.
(Ord. 14-11, passed 6-27-2011)
CHAPTER 803: EXHIBITION DRIVING
Section
   
803.01   Exhibition driving prohibited
§ 803.01 EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding, swaying, throwing of sand or
gravel or in a manner simulating a race. Unreasonable squealing or screeching
sounds emitted by the tires or the unreasonable throwing of sand or gravel by
the tires is prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 803.01)
CHAPTER 804: STREET OBSTRUCTION
Section
   
804.01   Obstruction prohibited
   
804.02   Removal
§ 804.01 OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit, cause to be deposited or through negligence allow
to be deposited upon the right-of-way of any public street or highway or upon
the shoulders thereof, any snow, ice, slush, earth, stone, mud, wood or items
of like substance, irrespective of the source thereof. Nothing herein shall be
deemed to interfere with the removal of items by the city, its agents or
employees or anyone authorized by the city to do so to provide safe travel on
public streets or highways.
(Prior Code, § 804.01)
§ 804.02 REMOVAL.
   Whenever any snow, ice, slush, earth, stone, mud, wood or items of like
substance are deposited or let or made to deposit in violation of §
804.01, any police officer or other authorized agent of the city is authorized
to remove or cause to be removed snow, ice, slush, earth, stone, mud, wood or
other item of like substance, without notice to the one causing the same to be
so placed or the owner thereof, to any storage area designated by the Council.
The owner or one so violating §
804.01 shall be liable to the city for the costs of removal and storage, in
addition to criminal penalties provided for violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 804.02)
CHAPTER 805: DRIVING OFFENSES
Section
   
805.01   Definitions
   
805.02   Private property
   
805.03   Public property
   
805.04   Careless driving
   
805.05   Speed
   
805.06   Motor vehicle noise
§ 805.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or which any person or property is or
may be transported which is self-propelled, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, including, but not limited
to, snowmobiles and motorcycles.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Lands which include, without limitation, parks and school
grounds, recreational areas, streets, sidewalks, public easements, golf
courses, trailways, cemeteries and other similar areas.
(Prior Code, § 805.01)
§ 805.02 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No motor vehicles shall be driven across or upon any private property
without permission of the owner or occupant thereof, express or implied.
(Prior Code, § 805.02)
§ 805.03 PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle upon public
property other than a paved surface designated for vehicular use or upon a path
or area designated by appropriate signs permitting the use.
(Prior Code, § 805.03)
§ 805.04 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who operates or halts any vehicle upon any street or highway
carelessly or heedlessly in disregard of the rights of others, or in a manner
that endangers or is likely to endanger any property or any person, including
the driver or passengers of the vehicle, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(M.S. § 169.13)
§ 805.05 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle within the city at a rate of speed
greater than reasonable and proper under all surrounding circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 805.05)
§ 805.06 MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE.
   (1)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABNORMAL OR EXCESSIVE NOISE.
         1.   Distinct and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort and repose of any person or
precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property's value;
         2.   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.69, as it may be
amended from time to time, which requires every motor vehicle to be equipped
with a muffler in good working order; or
         3.   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.693, as it may be
amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules Parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050,
as this statute and these rules may be amended from time to time, which
establish motor vehicle noise standards.
      ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE. A dynamic brake, Jake brake, Jacobs brake, C-
brake, Paccar brake, transmission brake or other similar engine retarding brake
system which alters the normal compression of the engine and subsequently
releases that compression.
   (2)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge the
exhaust or permit the discharge of the exhaust from any motor vehicle except
through a muffler that effectively prevents abnormal or excessive noise and
complies with all applicable state laws and regulations.
   (3)   Engine retarding brake prohibition. It shall be unlawful for the
operator of any truck to intentionally use an engine retarding brake on any
public highway, street, parking lot or alley within the city which causes
abnormal or excessive noise from the engine because of an illegally modified or
defective exhaust system, except in an emergency.
   (4)   Adoption by reference. M.S. §§ 169.69 and 169.693 (motor vehicle noise
limits) and Minn. Rules, Parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as these statutes
and rules may be amended from time to time, are adopted by reference.
   (5)   Signs. Signs stating "VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED" may be installed at
locations deemed appropriate by the City Council to advise motorists of the
prohibitions contained in this section, except that no sign stating "VEHICLE
NOISE LAWS ENFORCED" shall be installed on a state highway without a permit
from the Minnesota Department of Transportation. The provisions of this section
are in full force and effect even if no signs are installed.
CHAPTER 806: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND PENALTIES
Section
   
806.01   Definitions
   
806.02   Penalties
§ 806.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Any term used in Chapters
801 through
806 and defined in M.S. 169.01, as it may be amended from time to time, has the
meaning given it by that statute.
(Prior Code, § 806.01)
§ 806.02 PENALTIES.
   (1)   Petty misdemeanors. Except as provided by division (2), any person
convicted of violating any provision of Chapters
801 through
805 is guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
   (2)   Misdemeanor. Violations of any provision of Chapters
804 and
805 is a misdemeanor. A violation of Chapters
801 through
805 which is committed in a manner or under circumstances so as to endanger or
be likely to endanger any person or property is a misdemeanor. Exclusive of
violations relating to the standing or parking of an unattended vehicle, a
violation of Chapters
801 through
805 when preceded by two or more petty misdemeanor convictions within the
immediate preceding 12 months is a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 806.02)
CHAPTER 807: OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
   
807.01   Definitions
   
807.02   Age restrictions for snowmobile operation
   
807.03   Operation of snowmobiles within the corporate city limits
   
807.04   Road crossing by snowmobiles
   
807.05   Snowmobiles at uncontrolled intersections
   
807.06   Snowmobile equipment requirements
   
807.07   Operation of all-terrain vehicles within the corporate city limits
   
807.08   Exemptions from provisions
   
807.09   Violation; penalty
§ 807.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE.
      (a)   CLASS I. A motorized flotation-tired vehicle of not less than three
low pressure tires, but not more than six low pressure tires, that is limited
in engine displacement of less than 800 cubic centimeters and total dry weight
less than 900 pounds.
      (b)   CLASS II. Class II all-terrain vehicles means an all-terrain
vehicle that has a total dry weight of 900 to 1,500 pounds.
      (c)   ORV. ATVs over 1,500 pounds are still considered ORVs.
   BOULEVARD. The strip of land, usually made of grass, between a roadway and a
sidewalk or pedestrian walking path.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, and control the operation of, a snowmobile or
all-terrain vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates, or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder, having the property in or title
to snowmobiles or all-terrain vehicles, and entitled to the use or possession
thereof.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, the state and its agencies
and its subdivisions, and any body of persons, whether incorporated or not.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire strip of land traversed by a highway or street in
which the public owns the fee or an easement for roadway purposes.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, including the shoulder, but not including the boulevard.
   SAFETY OR DEADMAN THROTTLE. A device which, when pressure is removed from
the engine accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be disengaged from the
driving track.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle used for recreational purposes,
steered by skis or runners and designed for travel on snow, ice or natural
terrain.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between boundary lines of any way or
place when any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter or
right, for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 807.01) (Ord. 17-94, passed 11-28-1994; Am. Ord. 02-07, passed
10-22-2007)
§ 807.02 AGE RESTRICTIONS FOR SNOWMOBILE OPERATION.
   (1)   Age restrictions. No person under 14 years of age shall operate on
streets or highways, or make a direct crossing of a street or highway, as the
operator of a snowmobile. A person 14 years of age or older, but less than 18
years of age, may operate a snowmobile on streets or highways as permitted
under this chapter, and make a direct crossing thereof, only if he or she has
in their immediate possession a valid snowmobile safety certificate issued by
the Commissioner of Natural Resources, as provided by M.S. § 84.86, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (2)   Responsibility of snowmobile owner. It is unlawful for the owner of a
snowmobile to permit the snowmobile to be operated contrary to the provisions
of this section.
(Ord. 17-94, passed 11-28-1994; Am. Ord. 02-07, passed 10-22-2007)
§ 807.03 OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES WITHIN THE CORPORATE CITY LIMITS.
   (1)   Operation of snowmobiles within the corporate limits of the City of
Lino Lakes is permissible only if in conformance with state law and city
ordinances.
   (2)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within the
corporate limits of the City of Lino Lakes in violation of the following
provisions:
      (a)   Anywhere within any public right-of-way except on the roadway
surface or as otherwise provided in this chapter;
      (b)    On a public sidewalk or walkway provided or used for pedestrian
travel;
      (c)   On private property of another without lawful authority or consent
of the owner or occupant;
      (d)   On any publicly owned lands and frozen waters (lakes, rivers,
streams and ponds), not previously listed or authorized for the use by the
proper public authority, including, but not limited to, school grounds, park
property, playgrounds, recreation areas and golf courses. Use in those areas
previously listed or authorized for the use by the proper public authority
shall be lawful, and snowmobiles may be driven in and out of the areas only by
the shortest route possible. Authorized areas in the City of Lino Lakes owned
by the city shall be designated by City Council resolution;
      (e)   At any place while under the influence of an alcoholic beverage or
controlled substance;
      (f)   At any speed in excess of 15 mph on a public street or highway, or
anywhere at a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all the
surrounding circumstances;
      (g)   At any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner, so as to
endanger the person or property of another or to cause injury or damage
thereto;
      (h)   So as to tow any person or thing on a public street or highway,
except through use of a rigid tow bar attached to the rear of the snowmobile;
      (i)   At a speed greater than 15 mph when within 100 feet of any
riverbank or lakeshore; or within 100 feet of fishermen, icehouses or skating
rinks; nor shall operation be permitted within 100 feet of any sliding area;
nor where the operation would conflict with the lawful use of property or would
endanger other persons or property;
      (j)   In a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary or unusual noise,
which disturbs, annoys or interferes with the peace and quiet of another;
      (k)   Snowmobiling shall be prohibited after 10:00 p.m. and before 7:00
a.m. Sunday through Thursday, and between 12:00 a.m. and 8:00a.m. Friday and
Saturday. This provision is not intended to prohibit snowmobiles from entering
or leaving the City of Lino Lakes during the above hours, provided that the
operator of a snowmobile utilizes the most direct route of travel to and from
the operator's residence or destination;
      (l)   Every person leaving a snowmobile in a public place shall lock the
ignition, remove the key and take the same with the person;
      (m)   It is unlawful to intentionally drive, chase, run over, kill or
otherwise take or attempt to take any animal, wild or domestic, with a
snowmobile; and
      (n)   Authorized snowmobiles may be used on any public property within
the city for rescue, emergency or law enforcement purposes.
(Prior Code, § 807.02) (Ord. 17-94, passed 11-28-1994; Am. Ord. 02-07, passed
10-22-2007)
§ 807.04 ROAD CROSSING BY SNOWMOBILES.
   A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street or highway, provided:
   (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
   (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway;
   (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard;
   (4)   In crossing a divided street or highway, the crossing is made only at
an intersection of the street or highway with another public street or highway;
or
   (5)   The crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after sunset
to one-half hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced visibility, only if
both front and rear lights are on.
(Prior Code, § 807.03) (Ord. 17-94, passed 11-28-1994; Am. Ord. 02-07, passed
10-22-2007)
§ 807.05 SNOWMOBILES AT UNCONTROLLED INTERSECTIONS.
   (1)   No snowmobile shall enter any controlled intersection without making a
complete stop. The operator shall then yield the right-of-way to any vehicles
or pedestrians that constitute any immediate hazard.
   (2)   An uncontrolled intersection includes, but is not limited to,
roadways, streets, highways, sidewalks and paths designed for pedestrian
traffic.
(Ord. 17-94, passed 11-28-1994; Am. Ord. 02-07, passed 10-22-2007)
§ 807.06 SNOWMOBILE EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile any place within
the corporate limits of the city unless it is equipped with the equipment set
forth as follows:
      (a)   Muffler; cutout; bypass. Standard mufflers which are properly
attached and in constant operation and which reduce the noise of operation of
the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. No person shall use a muffler
cutout, by-pass, straight pipe or similar device on a snowmobile motor, and the
exhaust system shall not emit or produce a sharp popping or crackling noise;
      (b)   Brakes. Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and
hold the snowmobile under any conditions of operation;
      (c)   Safety throttle. A safety or so called "deadman" throttle in
operating condition, as that when pressure is removed from the accelerator or
throttle, the motor is disengaged from the driving track;
      (d)   Lights.
         1.   At least one clear lamp attached to the front, with sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead during the hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions.
         2.   The head lamp shall be so aimed that glaring rays are not
projected into the eyes of an oncoming vehicle operator.
   (2)   It shall be equipped with a least one red tail lamp having a minimum
candle power of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light plainly visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during the hours of darkness under
normal atmospheric conditions.
   (3)   The equipment shall be in use when the vehicle is operated between the
hours of one-half hour after sunset or one-half hour before sunrise or at times
of reduced visibility.
(Prior Code, § 807.04) (Ord. 17-94, passed 11-28-1994; Am. Ord. 02-07, passed
10-22-2007)
§ 807.07 OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES WITHIN THE CORPORATE CITY LIMITS.
   (1)   No person shall enter and operate an all-terrain vehicle on lands not
owned by the person, except where otherwise allowed by law, without the express
written or oral permission of the owner, occupant or lessee of the lands.
   (2)   Except as otherwise specifically permitted and authorized, it is
unlawful for any person to operate an all-terrain vehicle within the corporate
limits of the City of Lino Lakes in violation of the following provisions.
      (a)   No person shall enter and operate an all-terrain vehicle on any
city street within the corporate limits of the City of Lino Lakes.
      (b)   No person shall enter and operate an all-terrain vehicle upon any
bank or slope of any city street ditch within the corporate limits of the City
of Lino Lakes.
      (c)   On a public sidewalk or walkway provided or used for pedestrian
travel.
      (d)   At any place while under the influence of an alcoholic beverage or
controlled substance.
      (e)   On any publicly owned lands and frozen waters (lakes, rivers,
streams and ponds), not previously listed or authorized for the use by the
proper public authority, including, but not limited to, school grounds, park
property, playgrounds, recreation areas and golf courses. Use in those areas
previously listed or authorized for the use by the proper public authority
shall be lawful, and all-terrain vehicles may be driven in and out of the areas
only by the shortest route possible. Authorized areas in the City of Lino Lakes
owned by the city shall be designated by City Council resolution.
   (3)   All-terrain vehicle operation shall be prohibited after 10:00 p.m. and
before 7:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday, and between 12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
Friday and Saturday.
   (4)   It is unlawful to intentionally drive, chase, run over, kill or
otherwise take or attempt to take any animal, wild or domestic, with an all-
terrain vehicle.
   (5)   In a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary or unusual noise, which
disturbs, annoys or interferes with the peace and quiet of another.
   (6)   At a speed greater than 15 mph when within 100 feet of any riverbank
or lakeshore; or within 100 feet of fishermen, icehouses or skating rinks; nor
shall operation be permitted within 100 feet of any sliding area; nor where the
operation would conflict with the lawful use of property or would endanger
other persons or property.
   (7)   At any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner, so as to
endanger the person or property of another or to cause injury or damage
thereto.
   (8)   Authorized all-terrain vehicles may be used on any public property
within the city for rescue, emergency or law enforcement purposes.
(Ord. 17-94, passed 11-28-1994; Am. Ord. 02-07, passed 10-22-2007)
§ 807.08 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   The city's enforcement agency, the County Sheriff's Department, DNR and the
Minnesota State Patrol in order to provide enforcement, shall be exempt from
the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-94, passed 11-28-1994; Am. Ord. 02-07, passed 10-22-2007)
§ 807.09 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment of
not more than 90 days, a fine of not more than $1,000 or both, plus the costs
of prosecution in either case.
(Ord. 17-94, passed 11-28-1994; Am. Ord. 02-07, passed 10-22-2007)
CHAPTER 808: MOTORIZED WATERCRAFT
Section
   
808.01   Purpose, intent and application
   
808.02   Definitions
   
808.03   Surface zoning of Peltier Lake by restricting speeds and areas of
activity
   
808.04   Enforcement
   
808.05   Exceptions
   
808.06   Notification
   
808.07   Penalties
   
808.08   Effective date
§ 808.01 PURPOSE, INTENT AND APPLICATION.
   As authorized by M.S. §§ 86B.201, 86B205 and 459.20, as they may be amended
from time to time, and Minn. Rules 6110.3000 and 6110.3800 as now in effect and
as hereafter amended, this chapter is enacted for the purpose and with the
intent to control and regulate the use of the water of Peltier Lake in Anoka
County Minnesota, the body of water being located within the boundaries of the
City of Lino Lakes and the City of Centerville, to promote its fullest use and
enjoyment by the public in general; to ensure safety for persons and property
in connection with the use of the waters, to minimize adverse impact on natural
resources, to harmonize and integrate the varying uses of the waters and to
promote the general health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Lino Lakes,
Minnesota.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-25-2002; Am. Ord. 16-04, passed 5-24-2004)
§ 808.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Terms used in this chapter related to boating are defined in M.S. §§
86B.005, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-25-2002; Am. Ord. 16-04, passed 5-24-2004)
§ 808.03 SURFACE ZONING OF PELTIER LAKE BY RESTRICTING SPEEDS AND AREAS OF
ACTIVITY.
   A slow no-wake speed 24 hours per day all year over all that part of Peltier
Lake lying northerly and northwesterly of the following described line (which
line extends east and west from, and including, the south end of the large
island):
      Commencing at the southwest corner of the Southeast Quarter of Section
10, Township 31, Range 22, Anoka County, Minnesota; thence North 89 degrees 54
minutes 46 seconds East along the south line of the Southeast Quarter 2106.64
feet to a witness corner on the south line of Government Lot 1, Section 10,
Township 31, Range 22; thence North 00 degrees 05 minutes 30 seconds West
150.00 feet; thence North 89 degrees 54 minutes 30 seconds East 100.00 feet,
more or less, to a point on the westerly shoreline of Peltier Lake, the point
being the point of beginning of the line to be described; thence continuing
North 89 degrees 54 minutes 30 seconds East to the easterly shoreline of
Peltier Lake and the line there terminating.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-25-2002; Am. Ord. 16-04, passed 5-24-2004)
§ 808.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The primary responsibility for enforcement of this chapter shall rest with
the Anoka County Sheriff's Department and the Lino Lakes Police Department.
This, however, shall not preclude enforcement by other licensed peace officers.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-25-2002; Am. Ord. 16-04, passed 5-24-2004)
§ 808.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   All authorized resource management, emergency and enforcement personnel,
while acting in the performance of their assigned duties, are exempt from the
foregoing restrictions.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-25-2002; Am. Ord. 16-04, passed 5-24-2004)
§ 808.06 NOTIFICATION.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Anoka County Parks and Recreation
Department to provide for adequate notification of the public, which shall
include placement of a sign at each public watercraft access outlining
essential elements of the chapter, as well as the placement of necessary buoys
and signs.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-25-2002; Am. Ord. 16-04, passed 5-24-2004)
§ 808.07 PENALTIES.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor as defined by state law.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-25-2002; Am. Ord. 16-04, passed 5-24-2004)
§ 808.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in force and effect from and after its passage and
publication as provided in the Lino Lakes City Charter.
(Am. Ord. 16-04, passed 5-24-2004)
900: NUISANCES
      Chapter
         
901.   GENERAL NUISANCES
         
902.   TREE DISEASES
         
903.   NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
         
904.   WEEDS AND GRASS DECLARED TO BE A NUISANCE
CHAPTER 901: GENERAL NUISANCES
Section
   
901.01   Public nuisance defined
   
901.02   Public nuisances affecting health
   
901.03   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
901.04   Enforcement
   
901.05   Abatement
§ 901.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED.
   Whoever by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty does any of the
following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is a misdemeanor:
   (1)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (2)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of-way or waters used by the public; or
   (3)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or this code to
be a public nuisance and for which no sentence is specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 901.01)
§ 901.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (1)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (2)   All diseased animals running at large;
       (3)   Pools of stagnant water;
   (4)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (5)   Accumulation of manure, tin cans, bottles, trash, ashes, refuse or
debris of any nature or description;
   (6)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (7)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (8)   All noxious weeds, including all weeds defined by the State
Commissioner of Agriculture to be injurious to public health, roads, crops,
livestock and other property;
   (9)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes or odors, gas and soot or cinders in
unreasonable quantities;
   (10)   All public exposure of persons having a contagious disease;
   (11)   The placing of the contents of any cesspool, septic tank, privy vault
or garbage can upon the surface of public or private property; and
   (12)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not licensed by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 901.02)
§ 901.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (1)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 12 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (2)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
persons from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (3)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (4)   (a)   Noise emanating from any use shall be in compliance with and
regulated by the State of Minnesota Pollution Control Standards, Minn. Rules
Ch. 7030, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (b)   1.   No person shall engage in or permit construction activities
involving the use of any kind of electric, pneumatic, diesel or gas-powered
machine or other power equipment except as follows:
 
7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.           Monday through Friday
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.           Saturday
No construction activity allowed Sunday and federal holidays
 
         2.   Exceptions.
            a.   The restriction on working hours in this § 901.03(4)(b)1. does
not apply to persons working on their own existing private residences.
            b.   The performance of city or state authorized, sponsored or
licensed work to undertake emergency utility repairs, such as water main
breaks, shall be exempt from the restrictions of this section. In other
circumstances, where work is needed outside working hours and daily
restrictions to protect the public health, safety or welfare of city residents,
work may be allowed by the City Engineer or Public Services Director upon
determination that the performance of work is necessary to restore public
service or eliminate a public hazard. Any person responsible for such work
shall take all reasonable actions to minimize the amount of noise.
            c.   Private construction activity that requires continuous hours
of operation to complete, such as dewatering, may be allowed subject to the
written approval of the City Engineer. Such approval shall be subject to any
condition deemed necessary, by the City Engineer, to mitigate noise impacts.
(Am. Ord. 11-03, passed 4-28-2003)
   (5)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary use by the public
of streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (6)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (7)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (8)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks or so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not
constructed and maintained in a sound condition;
   (9)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (10)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
ten feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (11)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (12)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public property;
   (13)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery,
household appliances, automobile bodies, lumber, wood or other material, or the
rank growth of vegetation among the items so accumulated, in a manner conducive
to the harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or in a manner creating fire,
health or safety hazards from the accumulation;
   (14)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
other condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (15)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch through accumulation of trash or other
materials;
   (16)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substances which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substances;
   (17)   The depositing of paper, litter, debris, garbage or refuse on a
public right-of-way or on adjacent private property or the throwing of any
matter from a motor vehicle;
   (18)   (a)   The parking, keeping, or storing of, or the permitting of junk
cars on a public street or alley or on any private land, or premises which are
owned, occupied or controlled by the one so doing or so permitting except where
such is being pursued in accordance with existing zoning.
      (b)   This shall also apply to anyone who shall park, keep or place a
vehicle even if he or she is not the owner of the land upon which the vehicle
is parked, kept or placed.
      (c)   For the purpose of this section, a JUNK CAR means any motor vehicle
which is not in operating condition, or which is partially dismantled, or which
is used for sale of parts or as a source of repair or replacement parts for
other vehicles, or which is kept for scrapping, dismantling or salvage of any
kind, or is not properly and currently licensed for operation within the State
of Minnesota; and
   (19)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to
the person or property of anyone.
(Prior Code, § 901.03; Am. Ord. 3-84, passed 7-9-1984; Am. Ord. 08-23, passed
9-11-2023)
§ 901.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department and any other officers, employees or agents as the
Council may designate shall enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
officers shall have the power to inspect private premises and take all
reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance of public
nuisances. No person shall enter private property under this section without
the express written permission of the owner or occupant of the property. If
permission is not granted, the provisions of §
101.14 concerning administrative search and seizure warrants shall be followed.
(Prior Code, § 901.04; Am. Ord. 3-84, passed 7-9-1984.)
§ 901.05 ABATEMENT.
   Nuisances may be abated under the provisions of
Chapter 903.
CHAPTER 902: TREE DISEASES
Section
   
902.01   Nuisances declared
   
902.02   Abatement
   
902.03   Inspection and investigation
   
902.04   Interference prohibited
   
902.05   Procedure for abatement and removal
   
902.06   Transporting elm, ash and oak wood prohibited
   
902.07   Penalty
§ 902.01 NUISANCES DECLARED.
   The following are declared to be public nuisances whenever and wherever they
may be found in the city.
   (1)   Any standing or living tree or part thereof infected to any degree
with the Dutch elm disease fungus Ceratocystis ulmi (Buisman moreau) or which
harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh) or
Hylurgopinus Rufipes (Marsch). And also, any dead elm tree or part thereof
including logs, branches, stumps, firewood or other elm material from which the
bark has not been removed and properly disposed of.
   (2)   (a)   Any living or standing tree or part thereof in the red oak group
(red oak, pin oak, scarlet oak, black oak) infected to any degree with the oak
wilt fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum.
      (b)   Also any living or standing tree in the white oak group (white oak,
bur oak, swamp white oak) that poses a threat of transmission of the oak wilt
fungus to other trees of the same species through interconnected root systems.
(Prior Code, § 902.01)
   (3)   All species and varieties of ash trees (trees of the genus Fraxinus)
infected with emerald ash borer (Agrilusplanipennis Fairmarie), and all species
and varieties of ash trees that are dead or substantially dead, all dead
ashwood to which the bark is still attached which because of their condition,
may serve as a breeding place for emerald ash borer (Agrilusplanipennis
Fairmarie), are hereby declared to be public nuisances and furthermore all ash
trees are hereby declared to be public nuisances as determined by two or more
visual symptoms as listed herein: basal sprouting, bark fissures, woodpecker
damage (holes), one-eighth inch D shaped holes, presence of larvae or the adult
emerald ash borer (Agrilusplanipennis Fairmarie), bark falling off exposing S
shaped galleries.
(Am. Ord. 07-10, passed 4-26-2010)
§ 902.02 ABATEMENT.
   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to permit a public nuisance as defined
in §
902.01 to remain on any premises owned or controlled by that person within the
city.
   (2)   The nuisances may be abated in the manner prescribed by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 902.02)
§ 902.03 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   The Council may designate a person or persons who shall inspect all premises
and places within the city as often as practical or necessary to determine
whether any condition described in §
902.01 exists thereon. The tree inspector shall investigate all reported
incidents of infestation by oak wilt fungus or Dutch elm fungus or elm bark
beetles or emerald ash borer. The tree inspector so designated by the Council
may enter upon private premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of
carrying out the duties assigned to him or her under this chapter. That person
or persons shall, upon finding conditions indicating oak wilt, Dutch elm
infestation, or emerald ash borer take steps for diagnosis as may be
appropriate. Whenever possible, diagnosis shall be based upon accepted field
symptoms.
(Prior Code, § 902.03) (Am. Ord. 07-10, passed 4-26-2010)
§ 902.04 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the city
forester or his or her agents while they are engaged in the performance of
duties imposed by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 902.04)
§ 902.05 PROCEDURE FOR ABATEMENT AND REMOVAL.
   (1)   Whenever it is found with reasonable certainty that the infestation
exists, he or she shall proceed as follows. If the tree inspector finds that
the danger of infestation of other oak, elm, or ash trees is imminent, he or
she shall notify the owner of the property on which the nuisance is found by
certified mail addressed to the owner at his or her last known address that the
nuisance must be abated within a time specified in the notice, but in no event
later than April 15 of the following year. The tree inspector shall immediately
report the action to the Council and after the expiration of the time limited
by the notice, the tree inspector may proceed to abate the nuisance as herein
provided. The cost of the abatement shall be assessed against the owner of the
property involved or against the property itself.
   (2)   All oak trees within the city diagnosed as having oak wilt should be
isolated from neighboring healthy trees of the same species by chemical or
mechanical disruption of common root grafts to prevent the root graft
transmission of the oak wilt fungus.
   (3)   To control the overland spread of oak wilt, the pruning of oaks shall
be avoided during the most susceptible months of May and June. If wounding is
unavoidable during this period, as in the aftermath of a storm or when the tree
interferes with utility lines, an asphalt-based tree wound dressing shall be
applied immediately.
   (4)   Trees of the red oak group diagnosed as having oak wilt may be girdled
as soon as they are detected in order to speed drying and reduce spore
production. Girdling shall be done only in areas where a weakened tree will not
constitute a hazard to life and/or property should it fall. Trees included in
this group are commonly known as red oak, pin oak, scarlet oak and black oak.
   (5)   To prevent oak wilt fungus spore production and control overland
spread of this disease, any diseased material of the red oak group desired for
use as fuel wood or to be salvaged for other purposes must be debarked or else
completely covered by heavy plastic (four mil or greater) until July 1.
   (6)   Any branch or other material of the red oak group not to be salvaged
shall be disposed of by burning, chipping or removal to an authorized dump
site. The city forester shall advise accordingly.
   (7)   Stumps of trees of the red oak group removed due to oak wilt shall be
completely covered, removed or debarked to the ground-line to eliminate all
possibilities of spore formation and overland disease spread.
   (8)   Trees of the white oak group (i.e. white oak, bur oak) diagnosed as
having oak wilt should be isolated by root graft disruption, as previously
stated. Diseased material originating from the trees will not support spore
formation and salvaged material therefore will not require special treatment to
control overland disease spread. Standing trees of this group showing symptoms
of minor oak wilt infection may have the infection successfully removed by
selective pruning. The city forester will advise accordingly.
   (9)   Ash trees found to be infected with emerald ash borer must be treated
and/or disposed of in compliance with all recommendations of the Minnesota
Department of Agriculture and the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources.
(Prior Code, § 902.05) (Am. Ord. 07-10, passed 4-26-2010)
§ 902.06 TRANSPORTING ELM, ASH AND OAK WOOD PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to transport within the city any bark-bearing
elm, oak, or ash wood without having obtained a permit from the city forester.
The city forester shall grant the permits only when the purposes of this
chapter will be served thereof.
(Prior Code, § 902.06) (Am. Ord. 07-10, passed 4-26-2010)
§ 902.07 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates the conditions of this chapter
is guilty of a misdemeanor and may be punished as set forth in §
101.15.
(Prior Code, § 902.07; Am. Ord. 18-87, passed 8-24-1987.)
CHAPTER 903: NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
Section
   
903.01   Declaration of policy
   
903.02   Hearing examiner
   
903.03   Inspection and investigation
   
903.04   Procedure for removal of public nuisances
   
903.05   Validity
   
903.06   Penalty
§ 903.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (1)   The Council has determined that the health, safety, good order,
general welfare and convenience of the public is threatened by certain public
nuisances on property within the city limits. It is declared to be the
intention of the Council to abate these nuisances and this chapter is enacted
for that purpose.
   (2)   Whoever, by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty,
intentionally does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public
nuisance and may be ordered to abate the nuisance as provided herein, charged
with a misdemeanor, or both:
      (a)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures
or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
      (b)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any
public highway or right-of-way or waters used by the public;
      (c)   Willfully opposes or obstructs a health officer or physician
charged with the enforcement of the health laws in performing any legal duties;
or
      (d)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by state law or
city ordinance to be a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 903.01)
§ 903.02 HEARING EXAMINER.
   (1)   Position created. The position of hearing examiner is created. The
Council may contract with third parties for the furnishing of all services of
the hearing examiner as contained in this chapter and set the rate of
compensation therefor.
   (2)   Duties of the hearing examiner. The hearing examiner shall have the
following duties:
      (a)   Set dates and hear all contested cases following appeals of orders
of the Zoning Administrator or chief building official;
      (b)   Take testimony from all interested parties;
      (c)   Make a complete record of all proceedings; and
      (d)   Affirm, repeal or modify the order of the Zoning Administrator or
chief building official and prepare written findings of fact.
(Prior Code, § 903.02)
§ 903.03 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (1)   Periodic inspection. The Zoning Administrator or chief building
official, shall cause to be inspected all public and private places within the
city which might contain a public nuisance as defined in this code as often as
practicable to determine whether any conditions exist. The Zoning Administrator
or chief building official shall also investigate all reports of public
nuisances located within the city.
   (2)   Entry on public and private places. The Zoning Administrator, chief
building official or their duly authorized agents may enter upon all public and
private places at any reasonable time for the purposes of inspecting those
places for public nuisances. No person shall enter private property under this
section without the express written permission of the owner or occupant of the
property. If permission is not granted, the provisions of §
101.14 governing administrative search and seizure warrants shall be followed.
(Prior Code, § 903.03)
§ 903.04 PROCEDURE FOR REMOVAL OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (1)   Abatement of nuisances. Upon a determination by the Zoning
Administrator or chief building official that a public nuisance exists on any
public or private property within the city, the Zoning Administrator or chief
building official shall order the public nuisance to be abated in a manner
consistent with the city code and state law.
   (2)   Notice of nuisance abatement. Whenever the Zoning Administrator or
chief building official finds with reasonable certainty that a public nuisance
exists on any public or private property in the city, he or she shall notify
the affected property owner by personal service or by certified mail that the
nuisance must be abated within a reasonable time, not more than 20 days from
the date of service of the notice. Service by certified mail shall be deemed
complete upon mailing. The order shall state with specificity the nature of the
violations and the requirements for compliance. The order shall also state that
the property owner may, within 20 days of the date of the order, request a
hearing before the hearing examiner and shall set out the procedure by which
that hearing may be requested. The order shall also state that failure to abate
the nuisance or request a hearing within the applicable time periods will
result in summary abatement procedures, and that the cost of abatement will be
a lien on the property and will be certified to the County Auditor for
collection with the next year's property taxes against the subject property.
Upon expiration of the time required by the notice, the Zoning Administrator or
chief building official may abate the nuisance unless a request for a hearing
has been timely filed. No person shall enter private property under this
section without the express written permission of the owner or occupant of the
property. If permission is not granted, the provisions of §
101.14 concerning administrative search and seizure warrants shall be followed.
   (3)   Hearing and appeal. Any property owner who feels aggrieved by an order
of the Zoning Administrator or chief building official issued pursuant to this
chapter may request a hearing before the hearing examiner. The request shall be
filed in writing with the office of the City Clerk within 20 days after service
of the notice by the Zoning Administrator or chief building official. The City
Clerk shall notify the hearing examiner who shall notify the property owner of
the date, time and place of the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted no more
than ten days after the hearing examiner receives notice of the request, unless
a later date is mutually agreed to by the hearing examiner, the property owner
and the city. Both the property owner and the city may appear at the hearing
with counsel and may call the witnesses and present evidence as is determined
by the hearing examiner to be relevant. Within ten days after the hearing, the
hearing examiner shall affirm, repeal or modify the order of the Zoning
Administrator or chief building official. The hearing examiner's order shall be
accompanied by written findings of fact. Any person aggrieved by the decision
of the hearing examiner may appeal that decision to the City Council by filing
notice of the appeal with the office of the City Clerk. At its next available
regular meeting, following the filing of a notice of appeal, the Council shall
review the decision and findings of fact of the hearing examiner and shall
affirm, repeal or modify that decision. The city shall take no action to abate
any nuisance while the matter is still pending before the hearing examiner or
the City Council.
   (4)   Record of costs. The Zoning Administrator or chief building official
shall keep a record of the costs of abatements done under this chapter and
shall report monthly to the City Clerk or other appropriate officer all work
done for which a lien against the property are to be made, stating and
certifying the description of the land, lots or parcels involved and the amount
attributable to each.
   (5)   Abatement charges as special assessment. On or before September 1 of
each year, the City Clerk shall list the total unpaid charges for each
abatement against each separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable
under this chapter. The Council may then spread the charges or any portion
thereof against the property involved as a special assessment under other
pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection the
following year along with current taxes. The assessment shall be payable in no
more than ten equal annual installments, pursuant to M.S. § 429.101, as it may
be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 903.04)
§ 903.05 VALIDITY.
   If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for any reason
held to be unconstitutional, the decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 903.06)
§ 903.06 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor as defined by state law and subject to the penalties thereof.
(Prior Code, § 903.07)
CHAPTER 904: WEEDS AND GRASS DECLARED TO BE A NUISANCE
Section
   
904.01   Definitions
   
904.02   Nuisance declared
   
904.03   Owner responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
904.04   Notice of violations
   
904.05   Appeals
   
904.06   Abatement by city
   
904.07   Liability
   
904.08   Exclusions
   
904.09   Penalty
§ 904.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the city weed inspector or
designated city official on the property owner of the ordinance violation.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal title
or a person having control over the property of another, such as right-of-way,
easement, license or lease.
   WEEDS. Shall be construed to mean and include not only noxious weeds as are
enumerated in M.S. Chapter 18.76 to 18.88, as they may be amended from time to
time, but also such useless and troublesome plants as are commonly known as
weeds to the general public. The word WEEDS shall also be construed to mean all
rank vegetative growth which exhales unpleasant or noxious odors, and also high
rank vegetative growth that may conceal filthy deposits.
(Prior Code, § 904.01) (Ord. 93-09, passed 9-13-1993)
§ 904.02 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (1)   Any weeds or grass growing upon any lot or parcel of land in the City
of Lino Lakes in excess of eight inches in height or which have gone or about
to go to seed, are hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the health
and safety and good order of the city. This shall apply in zoning districts
where the land is platted or developed. DEVELOPED shall mean that the property
has been improved with the construction of buildings, parking lots or other
facilities excluding underground utilities or sewer or water.
   (2)   It shall be unlawful to allow or permit any growth of weeds, grass,
brush or other rank vegetation to a height greater than eight inches or any
accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush.
   (3)   In the instance where the control area is larger than one acre, the
control shall be restricted to the front one acre and 20 feet on the perimeter
of adjoining frontages.
(Prior Code, § 904.02) (Ord. 93-09, passed 9-13-1993)
§ 904.03 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in
excess of eight inches in height.
(Prior Code, § 904.03) (Ord. 93-09, passed 9-13-1993)
§ 904.04 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   When any conditions exist on any lot or parcel in the City of Lino Lakes in
violation of the provisions hereof, it shall be the duty of the city weed
inspector or his or her designee to serve a forward written notification in the
form of a "Destruction Order" on the property owner, occupant or agent to have
the weeds or grass cut and removed. The notice shall be served in writing by
certified mail. The notice shall provide that within ten days after the service
thereof, that the designated violation shall be removed by the property owner
or person occupying the property, and also stating that in case of
noncompliance, the same will be done by the city weed inspector at the owner's
expense.
(Prior Code, § 904.03) (Ord. 93-09, passed 9-13-1993)
§ 904.05 APPEALS.
   (1)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the City Council within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and
holidays, if the property owner contests the findings of the city. It is the
property owner's responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question is
not in violation of this chapter.
   (2)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council Members in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
§ 904.06 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
"Destruction Order" within ten regular business days and has not filed a notice
within 48 hours to the City Clerk of an intent to appeal, the city weed
inspector may employ the services of city employees or outside contractors and
remove the weeds to conform to this chapter by all lawful means.
§ 904.07 LIABILITY.
   (1)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this chapter.
   (2)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorney's
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the city uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (3)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Clerk and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for expenses and
costs incurred by the city.
   (4)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
§ 904.08 EXCLUSIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (1)   Natural areas which shall be defined as densely wooded areas, bogs and
marshes;
   (2)   Managed natural landscapes as defined in M.S. § 412.925(a)(1)-(5);
   (3)   City owned and/or controlled property (city will maintain city
properties the same as the norm for the area or neighborhood it is located);
   (4)   Storm water pond areas;
   (5)   Land used for agricultural purposes; or
   (6)   Compost areas which meet the following conditions:
      (a)   The compost is in a compost box which is of adequate construction
to allow for the decomposition of the material; and
      (b)   The compost is screened from view of adjacent property owners.
(Prior Code, § 904.05) (Ord. 93-09, passed 9-13-1993; Am. Ord. 10-23, passed
10-23-2023)
§ 904.09 PENALTY.
   Any person, or firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 904.06) (Ord. 93-09, passed 9-13-1993)
1000: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
1001.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
1002.   FIRE CODE
         
1003.   BUILDING CODE
         
1004.   RESTRICTIVE SOILS
         
1005.   RESERVED
         
1006.   BUILDING NUMBER
         
1007.   ZONING CODE
         
1008.   SHADE TREES
         
1009.   HOUSING MAINTENANCE CODE
         
1010.   SIGNS
         
1011.   STORMWATER, EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
CHAPTER 1001: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
1001.001   Title
   
1001.002   Purpose
   
1001.003   Jurisdiction
   
1001.004   Platting authority
   
1001.005   Policy
   
1001.006   Application of rules
   
1001.007   Definitions
   
1001.008   Compliance with Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Code and official map
   
1001.009   Fees
   
1001.010   Restrictions on filing and recording conveyance
   
1001.011   Building permits
   
1001.012   Variances
   
1001.013   Premature subdivision
   
1001.014   MUSA allocation
Concept Plan
   
1001.025   General
   
1001.026   Information required for concept plan
   
1001.027   Filing and review of application
   
1001.028   Determination of requirement for environmental review documents
Preliminary Plat
   
1001.040   General
   
1001.041   Information required for preliminary plat
   
1001.042   Filing and review of application
Final Plat
   
1001.055   Filing and requirements for application
   
1001.056   Information required for final plat
   
1001.057   Review, approval or denial
   
1001.058   Form and content
   
1001.059   Recording
   
1001.060   Record plans
Minor Subdivision
   
1001.075   Application
   
1001.076   Qualification
   
1001.077   Filing and review of application
   
1001.078   Information requirements
   
1001.079   Procedure
   
1001.080   Recording
   
1001.081   Reports to City Council
Design Standards
   
1001.095   Conformity with the Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Code
   
1001.096   Land requirements
   
1001.097   Blocks
   
1001.098   Lots
   
1001.099   Conservation subdivision design
   
1001.100   Streets and alleys
   
1001.101   Easements
   
1001.102   Storm water management and erosion and sediment control
   
1001.103   Public utilities
Public Land Dedication
   
1001.115   Property dedication
Tree Preservation
   
1001.125   General
   
1001.126   Tree preservation by subdividers
   
1001.127   Tree replacement
Improvements
   
1001.140   Required public improvements
   
1001.141   Subdivision monuments
   
1001.142   Required private improvements
   
1001.143   Improvement financing
   
1001.144   Utility area and unit charges
   
1001.145   Development agreement
   
1001.146   Construction plans
   
1001.147   Maintenance of improvements
   
1001.148   Financial security
   
1001.149   Enforcement
   
1001.150   Application to city personnel
   
1001.151   Injunction
   
1001.152   Severability and supremacy
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1001.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Lino Lakes Subdivision Chapter and will
be referred to herein as this chapter.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.002 PURPOSE.
   The Council, being aware of the responsibility which they have for the
adoption of ordinances, rules and regulations designed for the protection of
health, safety and general welfare of this community, deem it necessary to
provide regulations for platting and subdividing of property within the city
which will prevent, as far as possible, the uses of land which are not
feasible, the location of streets where the location does not fit the overall
pattern of the city, the general design of the proposed building lots in any
platted area which might prevent compliance with the Building Code, Zoning
Chapter or other regulations of the city in the future, and to make all
subdivisions of property conform as nearly as possible with a future overall
plan, does hereby order that all subdivisions hereafter planned within the
limits of the city shall, in all respects, fully comply with the regulations
hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.003 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands within the
incorporated boundaries of Lino Lakes.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.004 PLATTING AUTHORITY.
   (1)   The Lino Lakes City Council shall serve as the platting authority of
the city in accordance with M.S. Ch. 462.358, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (2)   No plat or replat shall be filed or accepted for filing by the office
of the Anoka county recorder or Registrar of Titles unless adopted by the
affirmative vote of the majority of the members of the City Council approving
the plat or replat.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
§ 1001.005 POLICY.
   (1)   It is declared to be the policy of the city to consider the
subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the plat as subject to
the control of the city pursuant to the Lino Lakes Comprehensive Plan for the
orderly, planned, efficient and economical development of the city.
   (2)   Land to be subdivided shall be of the character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health from fire, flood or other
menace. Land shall not be subdivided unless proper provisions have been made
for drainage, stormwater management, wetland protection, potable water,
domestic waste water, streets and capital improvements such as parks,
recreation facilities, transportation facilities, stormwater improvements and
any other necessary improvements.
   (3)   The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be
properly related to the Comprehensive Plan, transportation plan, local water
management plan and the capital improvement plan of the city.
   (4)   The provisions of this chapter are in addition to and not in
replacement of provisions of all building codes and the zoning regulations. Any
provision of the Building Code and zoning regulations shall remain in full
force and effect except as may be contradictory to the provisions hereof. Where
any provision conflicts with other provision, the most restrictive provision
shall be applied.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.006 APPLICATION OF RULES.
   The language contained in this chapter shall be interpreted in accordance
with the following rules of construction as applicable:
   (1)   The singular includes the plural and the plural the singular;
   (2)   The present includes the past and future tenses, and the future tense
includes the present tense;
   (3)   The words SHALL and MUST are mandatory while the word MAY is
permissive;
   (4)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders;
   (5)   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in this chapter,
its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition;
   (6)   In the event of conflicting provisions, the more restrictive shall
apply; and
   (7)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirement for the promotion of
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   APPLICANT. The person(s) whose name(s) are on an application as owner, their
agent or person having legal control, ownership and/or interest in land for
which the provisions of this chapter are being considered or reviewed.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Best management practices as described in
current Minnesota Pollution Control Agency's manual and other sources as
approved by the city.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision which is entirely bounded by
streets or by a combination of streets, railroad right-of-way or public parks,
the exterior boundary or boundaries of the subdivision or the shoreline of the
above with a lake, stream or river.
   BOULEVARD. That portion of the street right-of-way between the curb line or
edge of pavement and the property line.
   BOUNDARY LINES. Lines indicating the bounds or limits of any tract or parcel
of land.
   BUFFER YARD. A strip of land utilized to screen or partially screen a use or
property from another use or property or to shield or mitigate noise, lights or
other impacts.
   BUILD OUT PLAN (GHOST PLAT). A subdivision or resubdivision concept plan
illustrating possible future lot layout, street networks and utility systems
for oversized lots, outlots or undeveloped land within or adjoining a
preliminary plat.
   BUILDABLE LAND. Contiguous land area occurring within the property lines of
a parcel of lot excluding wetlands and/or water courses.
   BUILDING LINE. Also referred to as a setback line, the line beyond which
property owners or others have no legal or vested right to extend a building or
any part thereof without special permission and approval of the proper
authorities.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN. An itemized program setting forth the schedule and
details of specific contemplated public improvements by fiscal year, together
with their estimated cost, the justification for each improvement, the impact
that the improvements will have on the current operating expense of the
government and other information on capital improvements as may be pertinent.
   CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY. A land survey prepared by a land surveyor registered
in the State of Minnesota with a certification that the information on the land
survey is accurate.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. Any open space, including parks, nature areas,
playgrounds, trails and recreational buildings and structures owned in common
by a group of property owners.
   COMMUNITY WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS. Utility systems serving more than one
building or lot.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The Lino Lakes Comprehensive Plan.
   CONDOMINIUM. Multiple-family dwelling or development containing individually
owned dwelling units and jointly owned and shared areas and facilities, which
dwelling or development is subject to the provisions of the Minnesota
Condominium Law, M.S. §§ 515.01 through 515.29, as they may be amended from
time to time.
   CONSERVATION DEVELOPMENT. The development pattern and technique whereby lots
are arranged in closely related groups to preserve the natural amenities of the
land through the creation of common open space.
   CONTOUR MAP. A map on which irregularities of land surface are shown by
lines connecting points of equal elevations. Contour interval is the vertical
height between contour lines.
   CRITICAL ROOT ZONE (CRZ). An imaginary circle surrounding the tree trunk
with a radius distance of one foot per one inch of tree diameter; for example,
a 20 inch diameter tree has a CRZ with a radius of 20 feet.
   CUL-DE-SAC. See STREET.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. The specifications for the preparation of concept plans,
preliminary plats and final plats indicating, among other things, the optimum
minimum or maximum dimensions of the features as rights-of-way and blocks, as
set forth in this chapter.
   DEVELOPER. A person who submits an application for the purpose of land
subdivision as defined herein. The DEVELOPER may be the owner or authorized
agent of the owner of the land to be subdivided.
   DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT. The diameter of a tree measured at diameter
breast height (four and one-half feet from the uphill side of the existing
ground level). If a tree splits into multiple trunks below four and one-half
feet, then the trunk is measured at its narrowest point beneath the split.
   DRIP LINE. The farthest distance away from the trunk that rain or dew will
fall directly to the ground from the leaves or branches of the tree or one foot
per one inch of diameter, whichever is greater.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation or a certain person or persons, for a specific
purpose or purposes.
   ESCROW. The deposition of funds in an account maintained by the governmental
unit specifically for the purpose of ensuring fulfillment of certain
obligations pursuant to this chapter.
   FILTER STRIP. A linear strip of land along a lake, wetland, river, creek or
stormwater ponding area where vegetation is established and maintained as a
means to slow the velocity of stormwater drainage and to filter sediment and
pollutants from the stormwater.
   FINANCIAL GUARANTEE. A financial security consistent with §
1001.148, posted with the city with the approval of a final plat, guaranteeing
compliance with the approved final plat, construction plans and conditions of
approval set forth by the city.
   FRONTAGE. See LOT, FRONTAGE.
   GRADE, PERCENTAGE OF. The rise or fall of a street in feet and tenths of a
foot for each 100 feet of horizontal distance measured at the center line of
the street.
   HIGH WATER LEVEL. The water level in a watercourse which could be predicted
to occur as a result of the critical 100-year runoff event using United States
Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service methodology, as approved by
the city.
   IMPROVEMENT, PUBLIC. Any drainage facility, street, parkway, park, lot
improvement or other facility for which the local government may ultimately
assume the responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which city responsibility is established.
   LAND DISTURBANCE. Any area in which movement of earth, alteration in
topography, soil compaction, disruption of vegetation, change in soil
chemistry, or any other change in the natural character of the land occurs as a
result of the site preparation, grading, building construction or any other
construction activity.
   LOT or LOT OF RECORD. A contiguous parcel, tract or area of land established
by plat, subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, that has one legal
description and parcel identification number recorded with the Anoka County
Property Records Department. Also referred to as a PARCEL.
   LOT AREA. The total area within the lot lines of a lot measured in a
horizontal plan.
   LOT, BASE. Lots meeting all the specifications in the zoning district prior
to being subdivided into a two-family dwelling or townhome subdivision.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two or more
intersecting streets; or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
single street, the interior angle of which is 135 degrees or less.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line measured from a 90 degree angle from the street right-of-way
within the lot boundaries.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines abutting
two substantially parallel streets and which is not a corner lot.
   LOT, FLAG. A lot that has access to a public street via a narrow strip but
does not have the full required frontage on a public street.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The narrowest lot boundary abutting a public street that meets
minimum lot width requirements. If none of the boundaries abutting a public
street meet minimum lot width requirements, then the lot frontage is the widest
boundary abutting a street.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot, other than corner lot, including through lots.
   LOT LINE. A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership except that where any position of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the lot line shall be deemed to be the street or alley right-
of-way.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line separating a lot from the street right-of-way
along the lot frontage.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite and most distant from the lot frontage
which connects the side lot lines. For the purposes of this chapter, the REAR
LOT LINE of a triangular lot shall be a line entirely within the lot at least
ten feet long and parallel to and most distance point from the front lot line.
If the front lot line on a lot is curved, the REAR LOT LINE shall be parallel
to a line tangent to the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Lot lines extending away from the lot frontage, which
connects the front and rear lot lines.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot fronting on two parallel streets.
   LOT, TRIANGULAR. A lot in which the side lot lines converge into a single
vertex. The vertex shall be deemed to be the rear lot line.
   LOT, UNIT. Lots created from the subdivisions of a two-family dwelling or
townhome having different minimum lot size requirements than the conventional
base lots within the zoning district.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot line of a lot
measured at the front building setback line and parallel to the front lot line.
If the front lot line is curved, such as on a cul-de-sac, the lot width is
measured along a line parallel to a tangent to the front lot line.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A method of property description by means of their
direction and distance from an identifiable point of beginning.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. A subdivision which results in three or fewer residential
parcels, tracts or lots from one or two existing parcels, tracts or lots; or
the exchange of abutting land between owners through the relocation of the
boundary line between two abutting, existing parcels of property which does not
result in the creation of any new lot.
   NORMAL WATER LEVEL. A level of water in a watercourse when the watercourse
is not in the process of receiving or discharging storm water runoff. The
NORMAL WATER LEVEL will typically be the outlet elevation of a pond, lake or
other standing water body.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL (OHWL). The boundary of public waters and wetlands
as determined by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources: an elevation
delineating the highest water level which has been maintained for a sufficient
period of time to leave evidence upon the landscape, commonly that point where
the natural vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly
terrestrial.
   OUTLOT. A parcel of land shown on a subdivision plat as an outlot and
designated alphanumerically (for example - Outlot A.) OUTLOTS are used to
designate one of the following: land that is part of the subdivision but is to
be subdivided into lots and blocks at a later date; land that is to be used for
a specific purpose as designated in a developer's agreement or other agreement
between the city and the developer.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity having proprietary interest in the land.
   PEDESTRIAN AND/OR BICYCLE TRAIL. An easement or land dedication given to the
city for the purpose of providing walking and/or bicycling areas to city
residents. The trails shall provide recreational opportunity and also access to
parks, natural areas and public land in accordance with the city's adopted
trail plan.
   PLAT. The drawing or map of a subdivision prepared for filing of record
pursuant to M.S. § 505, as may be amended from time to time.
   PLAT, FINAL. The final map or drawings and accompanying material described
in §§
1001.055 et seq. on which the developer's plan or subdivision is presented to
the City Council for approval and which, if approved, will be submitted to the
office of the city recorder or Registrar of Titles for filing.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The preliminary map or drawings and accompanying material
described in §§
1001.040 et seq. indicating the proposed layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the city for their consideration for compliance with the
Comprehensive Plan, the Zoning Chapter and these regulations along with
required supporting data.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANT. A restriction of the use placed upon the property by a
present or former owner and recorded in the office of the city recorder or the
Registrar of Titles. The city will not be responsible to enforce private
protective covenants.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEY. A survey map of registered land designed to simplify
a complicated metes and bounds description, designating the same into a tract
or tracts of registered land survey number.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor licensed and registered in the
state.
   RESUBDIVISION. A change in an approved or recorded subdivision plat if the
change affects any street layout on the map or area reserved for public use, or
any lot line or if it affects any map, or plan legally recorded prior to the
adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water
main, sanitary or storm sewer main, or for another special use. The usage of
the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting purposes shall mean that every RIGHT-
OF-WAY hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to be separate and
distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining the RIGHT-OF-WAY and not included
within the dimensions or areas of the lots or parcels. RIGHT-OF-WAY intended
for streets, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains or any other use
involving maintenance by a public agency shall be dedicated to public use by
the recording of the plat on which the RIGHT-OF-WAY is established.
   ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the outside edges
of a road right-of-way.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, individual
sewage treatment system or other facility, and an ordinary high water level,
sewage treatment system, top of bluff, road, highway, property line or other
facility.
   SHORELAND. Land located within the following distances from public waters:
1,000 feet from the ordinary high water level of a lake, pond or flowage and
300 feet from a river or stream or the landward extent of a flood plain
designated in
Chapter 1102 on a river or stream, whichever is greater. The limits of
SHORELAND may be reduced whenever the waters involved are bounded by
topographic divides which extend landward from the waters for lesser distances
and when approved by the Commissioner of Natural Resources.
   SIGNIFICANT TREE. See definition of TREE.
   SPECIMEN TREE. See definition of TREE.
   STREET. A right-of-way affording access by pedestrians and vehicles, whether
designated as a street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road,
avenue, boulevard, court, way, trail or however otherwise designated. Private
ingress and egress easements shall not be considered STREETS.
   STREET, IMPROVED. A street that is paved according to city standards.
   STREET, CUL DE SAC. A local street, one end of which is closed and consists
of a circular turn around.
   STREET PAVEMENT WIDTH. The width of the improved surface of the street as
measured at right angles or radially to the centerline of the street from curb
face to curb face, or on a street without curbs from the outside edge of the
improved shoulder to outside edge of improved shoulder.
   SUBDIVISION. The creation of one or more lots under the provisions of this
chapter or any division of an existing lot.
   TREE. Any of the following type of trees, as each is defined herein:
      (a)   CONIFEROUS TREE. A woody plant which, at maturity, is at least 12
feet or more in height, having foliage on the outermost portion of the branches
year round.
      (b)   DECIDUOUS TREE. A woody plant which, at maturity, is at least 15
feet or more in height, having a defined crown, and which sheds leaves
annually.
      (c)   SIGNIFICANT TREE. A healthy tree measuring a minimum of six inches
in diameter for deciduous trees, or a minimum of 12 feet in height for
coniferous trees.
      (d)   SIGNIFICANT TREE STAND. A grouping or cluster of coniferous and/or
deciduous trees with contiguous crown cover, occupying 500 or more square feet
of property, which are comprised of deciduous trees six inches or larger in
diameter or coniferous trees 12 feet or higher in height.
      (e)   SPECIMEN TREE. A healthy hardwood tree measuring equal to or
greater than 30 inches in diameter and/or a coniferous tree measuring 50 feet
or greater in height.
   TREE CERTIFICATION. A certified inventory of trees on the site after work is
complete listing all trees and their final disposition, which is signed by a
licensed forester or landscape architect.
   TREE PRESERVATION PLAN. A plan and inventory certified by a forester or
landscape architect indicating all of the significant trees and their locations
in the proposed development or on the lot. The TREE PRESERVATION PLAN shall
include the size, species, tag numbers and location of all significant trees
proposed to be saved and removed on the area of development and the measures
proposed to protect the significant trees to be saved.
   WATERCOURSES. Any natural or man-made passageway on the surface of the earth
so situated and having a topographical nature that surface water stands or
flows through it from other areas. The term includes ponding areas, drainage
channels, sales, waterways, creeks, rivers, lakes, streams, wetland areas, and
any other open surface water flow which is the result of storm water or ground
water discharge. This term does not include man-made piping systems commonly
referred to as storm sewers.
   ZONING CHAPTER. The Lino Lakes Zoning Chapter, as may be amended, regulating
the use of land within the incorporated boundaries of Lino Lakes.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
§ 1001.008 COMPLIANCE WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, ZONING CODE AND OFFICIAL MAP.
   No subdivision of land shall conflict with the provisions of the
Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Chapter or official maps.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.009 FEES.
   The fees for all applications and for all permits shall be established by
the City Council in the city fee schedule. The acceptance of all applications,
issuance of permits or recording of any plat shall not occur until a complete
application has been filed and the appropriate fees have been paid.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1001.010 RESTRICTIONS ON FILING AND RECORDING CONVEYANCE.
   (1)   No conveyance of land within the city shall be filed or recorded if
the land is described in the conveyance by metes and bounds or by reference to
an unapproved registered land survey made after April 21, 1961, or to an
unapproved plat made after the regulations become effective. The foregoing
provision does not apply to a conveyance if the land described:
      (a)   Was a separate parcel of record April 1, 1945, or the date of
adoption of subdivision regulations under Laws 1945, Chapter 287, whichever is
the later, or of the adoption of subdivision regulations pursuant to a home
rule charter;
      (b)   Was the subject of a written agreement to convey entered into prior
to that time;
      (c)   Was a separate parcel of not less than two and one-half acres in
area and 150 feet in width on January 1, 1966;
      (d)   Was a separate parcel of not less than five acres in area and 300
feet in width on July 1, 1980;
      (e)   Is a single parcel of commercial or industrial land of not less
than five acres and having a width of not less than 300 feet and its conveyance
does not result in the division of the parcel into two or more lots or parcels,
any one of which is less than five acres in area or 300 feet in width;
      (f)   Is a single parcel of residential or agricultural land of not less
than 20 acres and having a width of not less than 500 feet and its conveyance
does not result in the division of the parcel into two or more lots, any one of
which is less than 20 acres or 500 feet in width; or
      (g)   A minor subdivision as allowed by the terms of this chapter.
   (2)   In any case in which compliance with the foregoing restrictions will
create an unnecessary hardship and failure to comply does not interfere with
the purpose of the subdivision regulations, the Council may waive the
compliance by adoption of a resolution to that effect and the conveyance may
then be filed or recorded. Any owner or agent of the owner of land who conveys
a lot or parcel in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall forfeit
and pay to the city a penalty of not less than $100 for each lot or parcel so
conveyed. The city may enjoin the conveyance or may recover the penalty by a
civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.011 BUILDING PERMITS.
   No building permit shall be issued by the city with respect to any land,
parcel or lot until the provisions of this chapter in regard to the subdividing
of property have been met.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.012 VARIANCES.
   The City Council may approve variances from the requirements of this chapter
in cases where an unusual hardship on the land exists. For the purposes of this
chapter, an unusual hardship on the land shall be determined using the criteria
and process for variances in the zoning ordinance, as may be amended, except
that unusual hardship also includes but is not limited to inadequate access to
direct sunlight for solar energy systems.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
§ 1001.013 PREMATURE SUBDIVISION.
   (1)   General. Any concept plan, preliminary plat or final plat deemed
premature pursuant to the following criteria shall be denied by the City
Council.
   (2)   Conditions for establishing a premature subdivision. A subdivision may
be deemed premature should any of the following conditions not be met.
      (a)   Consistency with the Comprehensive Plan. Including any of the
following:
         1.   Land use plan;
         2.   Transportation plan;
         3.   Utility (sewer and water) plans;
         4.   Local water management plan;
         5.   Capital improvement plan; and
         6.   Growth management policies, including MUSA allocation criteria.
      (b)   Consistency with infill policies. A proposed urban subdivision
shall meet the city's infill policies:
         1.   The urban subdivision must be located within the Metropolitan
Urban Service Area (MUSA) or the staged growth area as established by the
city's Comprehensive Plan;
         2.   The cost of utilities and street extensions must be covered by
one or more of the following:
            a.   An immediate assessment to the proposed subdivision;
            b.   One hundred percent of the street and utility costs are
privately financed by the developer;
            c.   The cost of regional and/or oversized trunk utility lines can
be financed with available city trunk funds; and
            d.   The cost and timing of the expenditure of city funds are
consistent with the city's capital improvement plan.
         3.   The cost, operation and maintenance of the utility system are
consistent with the normal costs as projected by the water and sewer rate
study; and
         4.   The developer payments will offset additional costs of utility
installation or future operation and maintenance.
      (c)   Roads or highways to serve the subdivision. A proposed subdivision
shall meet the following requirements for level of service (LOS), as defined by
the Highway Capacity Manual:
         1.   If the existing level of service (LOS) outside of the proposed
subdivision is A or B, traffic generated by a proposed subdivision will not
degrade the level of service more than one grade;
         2.   If the existing LOS outside of the proposed subdivision is C,
traffic generated by a proposed subdivision will not degrade the level of
service below C;
         3.   If the existing LOS outside of the proposed subdivision is D,
traffic generated by a proposed subdivision will not degrade the level of
service below D;
         4.   The existing LOS must be D or better for all streets and
intersections providing access to the subdivision. If the existing level of
service is E or F, the subdivision developer must provide, as part of the
proposed project, improvements needed to ensure a level of service D or better;
         5.   Existing roads and intersections providing access to the
subdivision must have the structural capacity to accommodate projected traffic
from the proposed subdivision or the developer will pay to correct any
structural deficiencies;
         6.   The traffic generated from a proposed subdivision shall not
require city street improvements that are inconsistent with the Lino Lakes
capital improvement plan. However, the city may, at its discretion, consider
developer-financed improvements to correct any street deficiencies;
         7.   The LOS requirements in divisions (2)(c)1. to 4. above do not
apply to the I-35W/Lake Drive or I-35E/Main St. interchanges. At city
discretion, interchange impacts must be evaluated in conjunction with Anoka
County and the Minnesota Department of Transportation, and a plan must be
prepared to determine improvements needed to resolve deficiencies. This plan
must determine traffic generated by the subdivision project, how this traffic
contributes to the total traffic, and the time frame of the improvements. The
plan also must examine financing options, including project contribution and
cost sharing among other jurisdictions and other properties that contribute to
traffic at the interchange; and
         8.   The city does not relinquish any rights of local determination.
      (d)   Water supply. A proposed subdivision shall be deemed to have an
adequate water supply when:
         1.   The city water system has adequate wells, storage or pipe
capacity to serve the subdivision;
         2.   The water utility extension is consistent with the Lino Lakes
water plan and offers the opportunity for water main looping to serve the urban
subdivision;
         3.   The extension of water mains will provide adequate water pressure
for personal use and fire protection; and
         4.   The rural subdivision can demonstrate that each of the proposed
lots can be provided with a potable water supply.
      (e)   Waste disposal systems. A proposed subdivision shall be served with
adequate waste disposal systems when:
         1.   The urban sewered subdivision is located inside the city's MUSA
or is consistent with the MUSA allocation criteria;
         2.   The city has sufficient MUSA and pipe capacity to serve the
subdivision if developed to its maximum density;
         3.   The subdivision will result in a sewer extension consistent with
Lino Lakes sewer plan and capital improvement plan;
         4.   A rural subdivision can demonstrate that each lot can be served
by an adequate sanitary sewer disposal system; and
         5.   A rural subdivision with a proposed communal sanitary sewer or
water system has an effective long range management and maintenance program
with proper financing.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.014 MUSA ALLOCATION.
   (1)   MUSA availability and commitment.
      (a)   The city shall determine MUSA availability as part of the review of
a submitted preliminary plat/phasing plan.
      (b)   City approval of the plan shall constitute a commitment by the city
to allocate MUSA at the time of final plat approval according to the phasing
plan.
      (c)   The criteria in this section shall be considered in the review of
the preliminary plat/phasing plan.
   (2)   MUSA allocation criteria. The following criteria shall be considered
to determine if MUSA will be allocated to a preliminary plat/phasing plan:
      (a)   A finding is made that the development of the property is not
premature;
      (b)   The existing or proposed zoning of the property is consistent with
the proposed use;
      (c)   Development of the subdivision will meet environmental design
standards of the Lino Lakes Subdivision and Zoning Chapters;
      (d)   The allocation is applied only to net buildable acreage;
      (e)   A utility extension can be made to the subject property;
      (f)   A roadway extension can be made to the subject property;
      (g)   Development of the property shall not adversely affect the health,
welfare and general safety of the community; and
      (h)   The area of the MUSA allocation is consistent with the growth
management policy established by the Lino Lakes Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
CONCEPT PLAN
§ 1001.025 GENERAL.
   While not mandatory, it is suggested that subdividers prepare and submit a
concept plan depicting the subdivision proposal for informal review prior to
filing a formal application. On the basis of the concept plan, the city shall
informally advise the subdivider as promptly as possible of the extent to which
the proposed subdivision generally conforms to the Comprehensive Plan, to the
design standards of this chapter and to other applicable requirements and shall
discuss possible modifications.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
§ 1001.026 INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR CONCEPT PLAN.
   (1)   General. The concept plan application shall include a fee and
processing escrow and ten sets of the required information listed below. Each
set shall include: large scale plans and specifications, a reduced scale (11
inches by 17 inches) copy of plans and specifications, and the other
information listed. (Note: additional sets of information shall be provided for
each of the following, if applicable:)
      (a)   Project is adjacent to a county road or county state aid highway
(one extra set);
      (b)   Project is adjacent to a state highway or interstate highway (two
extra sets); and
      (c)   Project lies within a Shoreland District (one extra set).
   (2)   General location and site description.
      (a)   Name and address of developer/owner.
      (b)   Date of plan preparation and dates of revision.
      (c)   Scale of plan (engineering scale only – one inch equals 100 feet).
      (d)   North arrow indication.
      (e)   Legal description.
      (f)   Property location map illustrating the site location relative to
adjoining properties and streets.
      (g)   Scaled drawing (engineering scale only) illustrating property
boundaries.
      (h)   Proof of ownership or legal interest in the property in order to
make application.
      (i)   Current and proposed land use and zoning.
      (j)   Evaluation by the applicant that the subdivision would not be
determined to be premature pursuant to the criteria outlined by the
Comprehensive Plan and Subdivision Chapter.
      (k)   Additional information as required by the Community Development
Department.
   (3)   Resource inventory. A resource inventory, mapped at a scale of no less
than one inch to 100 feet shall include:
      (a)   Topographic contours at two foot intervals showing rock slopes of
more than 15%;
      (b)   Soil type locations and identification of soil type characteristics
such as hydric soils, depth to bedrock and suitability for wastewater disposal
systems, if applicable (Anoka County Soil Survey information);
      (c)   Hydrologic characteristics, including surface water courses, flood
plains, delineated wetlands, natural swales and drainageways;
      (d)   Site vegetation, including:
         1.   Cover type (pasture, woodland and the like);
         2.   Woodland area boundaries;
         3.   Individual trees having a diameter at breast height of 18 or more
inches; and
         4.   Vegetative type descriptions (deciduous, coniferous or mixed) by
plant community, relative age and condition.
      (e)   Current land use and land cover (cultivated areas, paved areas and
the like), all buildings and structures on the land and all encumbrances, such
as easements or covenants;
      (f)   Transportation systems, including:
         1.   Adjoining streets;
         2.   Functional classifications;
         3.   Current and projected traffic volumes; and
         4.   General conditions.
      (g)   Visual resources (such as photographs) showing views onto the tract
from surrounding roads and public areas, as well as views within the tract;
      (h)   Cultural resources: brief description of historic character of
land, buildings and structures, historically important landscapes and
archeological features;
      (i)   Neighborhood context: general outlines of existing neighborhoods,
land uses, buildings, streets and natural features such as water bodies or
wooded areas, roads, driveways and property boundaries within 300 feet of the
tract. This information shall be presented on an aerial photograph at a scale
of no less than one inch to 200 feet; and
      (j)   City data resources available to assist the developer with
preparation of the resource inventory include the Lino Lakes Handbook for
Environmental Planning and Conservation Development, Wild and Urban Interface
Project, Metro Greenways Study and/or other studies. The resource inventory and
resulting concept plan may be reviewed against the city data resources.
   (4)   Yield plan. If the project includes a conservation subdivision or
planned unit development, the applicant shall submit a yield plan showing the
maximum number of dwelling units that would be permitted given the minimum lot
size and lot widths for conventional subdivisions and other requirements of the
Lino Lakes Zoning and Subdivision Chapters. The yield plan need not be fully
engineered, but it shall be drawn to scale and it shall identify all the major
physical features on the parcel and shall include:
      (a)   Any required zoning changes;
      (b)   Minimum lot areas and widths shall be shown and shall conform with
the proposed zoning for the site; and
      (c)   Lot areas shall consist of buildable land as defined by the Lino
Lakes Zoning Chapter.
   (5)   Concept subdivision plan. One or more of the subdivision sketch plans
meeting the intent of this chapter and including at least the following
information:
      (a)   Open space areas indicating which areas are to be protected and
defined by the purpose of the open space;
      (b)   Boundaries of areas to be developed and proposed general street and
lot layout;
      (c)   Number and type of housing units and/or approximate size and
location of commercial and industrial buildings as may be applicable;
      (d)   Areas proposed for stormwater management;
      (e)   Street system that interconnects neighborhoods that is consistent
with the Lino Lakes transportation plan;
      (f)   Location of utility trunks intended to serve the site;
      (g)   In rural residential subdivisions, areas for on-site or communal
sewage treatment systems must be highlighted;
      (h)   The plans shall be drawn at a scale of one inch to 100 feet; and
      (i)   Total area of delineated wetlands and uplands on site.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
   (6)   Electronic copy of all submittals. In addition to the paper copy
submittals, all information shall be submitted in electronic format to allow
the city to review it electronically if needed.
(Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1001.027 FILING AND REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   (1)   Pre-application meeting. Prior to submitting a concept plan
application, an applicant shall meet with city staff to discuss the proposed
development and investigate the requirements for pursuing a development
application. The city strongly recommends that this pre-application meeting
occur prior to preparing plans in order to avoid the expense of changing them
after the meeting to meet requirements.
   (2)   Neighborhood meeting. The city strongly recommends the property owner/
applicant hold a neighborhood meeting for informal comment and feedback prior
to submitting a concept plan application.
   (3)   Submittal to Community Development Department. An application for
concept plan along with the associated information and a fee and processing
escrow established by the City Council shall be submitted to the Community
Development Department.
   (4)   Plan submitted to other staff. The Community Development Department
shall submit copies of the concept plan and associated information to other
staff, committees, consultants or agencies as appropriate.
   (5)   Plan submitted to City Council. The Community Development Department
shall forward the concept plan submission to the city's advisory boards and
City Council for their consideration at regularly scheduled meetings to solicit
review and comment on the project's acceptability in relation to the city's
Comprehensive Plan and development regulations. These meetings should be
attended by the applicant.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
   (6)   City review and comments on the concept plan's relation to the
Comprehensive Plan and development regulations does not grant any rights to the
applicant to develop the property as depicted by the concept plan.
(Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
§ 1001.028 DETERMINATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW DOCUMENTS.
   (1)   The Community Development Department shall review the concept plan and
shall determine if the project requires an environmental assessment worksheet
(EAW), environmental impact statement (EIS) or alternative urban area-wide
review (AUAR) pursuant to Minnesota Rules. If the environmental review is
required, the Community Development Department shall notify the developer of
the requirement.
   (2)   An escrow deposit as established by the City Council in addition to
the standard requirements shall be submitted by the applicant to cover city
costs reviewing and administering an EAW.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
PRELIMINARY PLAT
§ 1001.040 GENERAL.
   (1)   After the completion of the concept plan process, if a concept plan is
submitted, the owner or developer shall file with the Community Development
Department an application for preliminary plat. The preliminary plat stage is
the point in the process that all information pertinent to the proposed
development is furnished by the developer for review by the Community
Development Department, city advisory committees and the City Council, any
other applicable agencies and the public. The information provides a basis for
approval or denial of the application. The information submitted in the
application shall address both existing conditions and changes that will occur
during and after development. The preliminary plat is a plan of how property
will be subdivided and developed.
   (2)   Additional information or modifications may be required by the
Community Development Department, city advisory committees or City Council and
additional information may be requested during the review process. In certain
cases, some information required by these standards may not be appropriate or
may need to be modified in order to provide an adequate basis for making a
decision.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.041 INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (1)   Information. Preliminary plat information is typically furnished on
plan sheets. However, some information is more appropriately submitted in other
forms. The plat, and associated information, shall be submitted in a form that
is legible, organized and understandable. The application shall consist of and
all information required by this chapter for a preliminary plat application.
   (2)   Application. The preliminary plat application shall include the fee
and processing escrow established by the City Council and ten sets of the
required information listed below. Unless noted otherwise, each set shall
include: large scale plans and specifications, a reduced scale (11 inches by 17
inches) copy of plans and specifications and the other information listed.
      (a)   Plans shall include the following separate plan sheets:
         1.   Certificate of survey;
         2.   Resource inventory;
         3.   Preliminary plat;
         4.   Preliminary grading, drainage and erosion control plan;
         5.   Preliminary utility plan;
         6.   Wetland mitigation plan (if determined necessary);
         7.   Yield plan (if determined necessary); and
         8.   Preliminary landscaping plan.
      (b)   Note: Additional sets of information shall be provided for each of
the following, if applicable:
         1.   Project is adjacent to a county road or county state aid highway
(one extra set);
         2.   Project is adjacent to a state highway or interstate highway (two
extra sets); and
         3.   Project lies within a Shoreland District (one extra set).
   (3)   Certificate of survey. The certificate of survey shall be prepared and
signed by a licensed land surveyor and shall include the following information:
      (a)   Scale (engineering only) at not larger than one inch equals 100
feet;
      (b)   North point indication;
      (c)   Existing parcel boundaries to be platted with dimensions and area;
      (d)   Existing legal description;
      (e)   Easements of record;
      (f)   Delineated wetland boundary, to include the ordinary high water
level (OHWL) of any lakes or Department of Natural Resources (DNR) waters;
flood plain as shown on Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) FIRM map;
      (g)   All encroachments;
      (h)   Existing buildings, structures and improvements within the parcel
to be platted and those 100 feet outside the boundaries of the subject parcel;
      (i)   Location, widths and names of all public streets, rights-of-way or
railroad rights-of-way showing type, width and condition of the improvements,
if any, which pass through and/or are within 100 feet; and
      (j)   The outside boundary of the subject property is to be clearly
marked with survey monuments.
   (4)   Resource inventory. The resource inventory shall utilize the
certificate of survey as a base and shall include:
      (a)   Topographic contours at two foot intervals showing rock outcrops
and slopes of more than 15%;
      (b)   Soil type locations and identification of soil type characteristics
such as hydric soils, agricultural capability, depth to bedrock and suitability
for wastewater disposal systems, if applicable (Anoka County Soil Survey
information);
      (c)   Hydrologic characteristics, including surface water courses, flood
plains, delineated wetlands, natural swales and drainageways. Ordinary high
water level and 100-year storm elevations of adjoining water courses, lakes,
wetlands, streams and the like at the date of the survey and approximate high
and low water elevations;
      (d)   Tree inventory identifying vegetation of the site, according to
general cover type (pasture, woodland and the like), defining boundaries of
woodland areas and individual significant trees as defined by §
1001.007 and a tree preservation plan per §
1001.125. Vegetative types shall be classified as generally deciduous,
coniferous or mixed and described by plant community, relative age and
condition;
      (e)   Neighborhood context: general outlines of existing buildings, land
use and natural features such as waterbodies or wooded areas, roads, driveways
and property boundaries within 300 feet of the tract. This information may be
presented on an aerial photograph at a scale of no less than one inch to 200
feet; and
      (f)   City data resources available to assist the developer with
preparation of the resource inventory include the Lino Lakes Handbook for
Environmental Planning and Conservation Development, Wild and Urban Interface
Project, Metro Greenways Study, and/or other studies. The resource inventory
and resulting concept plan may be reviewed against the city data resources.
   (5)   Preliminary plat. The preliminary plat shall utilize the certificate
of survey as a base and shall include the following information:
      (a)   The proposed name of the plat, which name shall not duplicate the
name of any plat theretofore recorded in the county;
      (b)   Date of application, name, address, phone number and applicable
license or registration number of the owner, developer, agent, applicant,
engineer, surveyor, planner, attorney or other principle involved in the
development of the plat;
      (c)   Existing Comprehensive Plan land use designations and existing
zoning within and abutting the proposed plat. Any zoning changes needed or
reference to any zoning or similar land use actions that are pertinent to the
proposed development;
      (d)   Total acreage of the land to be subdivided and total upland area;
      (e)   Boundary line survey and legal description;
      (f)   North arrow and graphic engineering scale of one inch equals 100
feet;
      (g)   Existing covenants, liens or encumbrances;
      (h)   Proposed lot lines, dimensions and the gross and buildable acreage
of all lots. When lots are located on a curve in a road or cul-de-sac, the lot
width at the building setback line shall be shown. Proposed lot and block
numbers;
      (i)   Building pad, minimum building setbacks shown on each lot
indicating dimensions of the setbacks. Location and width of buffer yards where
the subdivision adjoins a collector or arterial street;
      (j)   Layout of streets, showing right-of-way widths, centerline street
grades and approximate radii of all curbs, proposed contours within the entire
plat and names of streets. The name of any street heretofore used in the city
or its environs shall not be used, unless the proposed street is an extension
of an already named street, in which event the name shall be used;
      (k)   Access, right-of-way widths, driveways and street classifications
shall be consistent with the Lino Lakes transportation plan;
      (l)   Parks, trails or other areas intended for public use or common
ownership;
      (m)   Dates of plan preparation and revision dates; and
      (n)   All delineated wetlands and the ordinary high water level (OHWL) of
DNR protected waters.
   (6)   Preliminary grading, drainage and erosion control plan. The
preliminary grading, drainage and erosion control plan shall be prepared and
signed by a licensed engineer and shall utilize the certificate of survey as a
base. The grading plan shall be designed to avoid premature disruption of land
and long term storage of excess materials. The grading plan shall include the
following information:
      (a)   Scale (engineering only) not larger than one inch equals 100 feet;
      (b)   North point indication;
      (c)   Location of natural features, including, but not limited to, tree
lines, delineated wetlands, water courses, ponds, lakes, streams, drainage
channels, ordinary high water level (OHWL) and 100-year storm elevations,
bluffs, steep slopes and the like;
      (d)   Existing contours at two foot intervals shown as dashed lines for
the subject property and extending 100 feet beyond the outside boundary of the
proposed plat;
      (e)   Proposed grade elevations at two foot intervals shown as solid
lines;
      (f)   Proposed plan for surface water management, ponding, drainage and
flood control, including the normal water level and high water level of all
ponds and watercourses;
      (g)   Provision for groundwater management, including sub-surface drains,
disposals, ponding and flood controls;
      (h)   Location of all existing storm sewer facilities, including pipes,
manholes, catch basins, ponds, swales and drainage channels within 100 feet of
the subject property. Existing pipe sizes, grades, rim and invert elevations
and normal and high water elevations must be included;
      (i)   If the subject property is within or adjacent to a 100-year flood
plain, flood elevation and locations must be shown;
      (j)   Spot elevations at drainage break points and directional arrows
indicating site, swale and lot drainage;
      (k)   Proposed lot lines, lot and block numbers, building style, building
pad location and elevations at the lowest floor and garage slab for each lot;
      (l)   Locations, sizes, grades, rim and invert elevations of all proposed
storm water facilities, including ponds, proposed to serve the subject
property;
      (m)   Phasing of grading;
      (n)   The location and purpose of all oversize, non-typical easements;
      (o)   All soil erosion and sediment control measures to be incorporated
during and after construction must be shown. Locations and standard detail
plates for each measure shall be in accordance with city standards and included
on the plan;
      (p)   All re-vegetation measures proposed for the subject property must
be included on the plan, including seed and mulch types and application rates;
      (q)   Drainage plan, including the configuration of drainage areas and a
separate document with calculations for one-year, ten-year and 100-year storm
events;
      (r)   Layout of proposed streets showing centerline gradients, section
widths and typical cross sections; and
      (s)   Date of plan preparation and dates of all revisions.
   (7)   Preliminary utility plan. The preliminary utility plan shall be
prepared and signed by a licensed engineer and shall utilize the certificate of
survey as a base. The utility plan shall include the following information:
      (a)   Scale (engineering only) not larger than one inch equals 100 feet;
      (b)   Proposed lot lines and the location, dimensions and purpose of all
easements;
      (c)   Location and size of existing sanitary sewers, water mains,
culverts or other underground facilities within the subject property and to a
distance of 100 feet beyond the outside boundary of the proposed plat. Data
such as grades, invert elevations and location of catch basins, manholes and
hydrants shall also be shown;
      (d)   Location and size of proposed sanitary sewers, water mains,
culverts and other stormwater facilities or other underground facilities within
the subject project and to a distance of 100 feet beyond the outside boundary
of the proposed plat. Data such as grades, invert elevations and location of
catch basins, manholes and hydrants shall also be shown;
      (e)   Water mains shall be provided to serve the subdivision by extension
of an existing municipal system wherever feasible;
      (f)   In areas where public water supply is not available, individual
wells shall be provided on each lot properly placed in relationship to the
individual sewage disposal facilities on the same and adjoining lots. Well plan
shall comply with the Minnesota State Well Code, as may be amended, and be
submitted for city approval;
      (g)   Municipal sanitary sewer trunk facilities, laterals and service
connections shall be designed and installed in accordance with the design
standards approved by the city engineer;
      (h)   All individual sewage treatment systems shall be designed and
installed in accordance with all applicable state, county and city
requirements;
      (i)   The location of hydrants and valves for all proposed water mains;
      (j)   All other utilities shall be located and designed in accordance
with the requirements of the city engineer; and
      (k)   Date of plan preparation and dates of all revisions.
   (8)   Yield plan. If the project includes a conservation subdivision or
planned unit development, the applicant shall submit a yield plan showing the
maximum number of dwelling units that would be permitted given the minimum lot
size and lot widths for conventional subdivisions and other requirements of the
Lino Lakes Zoning and Subdivision Chapters. The yield plan need not be
engineered, however, it shall be drawn to scale and it shall identify all the
major physical features on the parcel and shall include:
      (a)   Any required zoning changes;
      (b)   Minimum lot areas and widths shall conform with the proposed zoning
for the site; and
      (c)   Lot areas shall consist of buildable land as defined by the Lino
Lakes Zoning Chapter.
   (9)   Preliminary landscaping plan. Preliminary landscaping plan shall
specify plant locations, varieties and sizes and shall include:
      (a)   Any buffer areas required by the zoning chapter including but not
limited to a buffer required for residential lots along all collector and
arterial roads;
      (b)   Common spaces shall be landscaped;
      (c)   Plantings in and/or near wetlands and ponds. Seed mix shall be
included; and
      (d)   Any proposed landscaping at subdivision entrances or area
identification signs.
   (10)   Determination of requirement for environmental review documents.
      (a)   The Community Development Department shall review the preliminary
plat and shall determine if the project requires an environmental assessment
workshop (EAW), environmental impact statement (EIS) or alternative urban area
wide review (AUAR) pursuant to Minnesota Rules. If environmental review is
required, the Community Development Department shall notify the developer of
the requirement.
      (b)   In addition to the standard requirements, an escrow deposit
established by the City Council shall be submitted by the applicant to cover
city costs of reviewing and administering an EAW.
   (11)   Additional information required.
      (a)   Proof of ownership or legal interest. Proof of ownership or legal
interest in the property in order to make application.
      (b)   Applicant's evaluation. Evaluation by the applicant that the
subdivision would not be determined to be premature pursuant to the criteria
outlined by the Comprehensive Plan and Subdivision Chapter.
      (c)   Phasing plan. All preliminary plats shall include, if applicable
under the growth management policy, a phasing plan that includes:
         1.   A phasing plan identifying the sequence of development and
approximate areas, number of lots in each phase, total area and buildable area
per phase, serially numbered with a description of each phase. Information
shall be provided regarding the number of dwelling units, proposed improvements
and common facilities for each. Each phase of a preliminary plat shall be
consistent with growth management criteria of the city;
         2.   Any trail/sidewalks within the approved phase of the preliminary
plat shall be constructed along with streets and utilities and shall be clearly
marked on a site map which shall be an attachment to all sales agreements for
individual lots;
         3.   A site grading plan that is coordinated with the phasing plan to
avoid premature disruption of land or long term storage of excess materials.
Plans for the construction of streets and facilities for sanitary sewer and
water also must take into consideration the phasing plan;
         4.   A development agreement that includes a financial security to
ensure completion of common facilities, trails and landscaping shall be
provided;
      (d)   Documents outlining the content of proposed conservation easements,
restrictive covenants, deed restrictions and establishment of homeowners
associations for review. Where the plat is intended to include common open
spaces, these documents shall address ownership and long term maintenance of
these open spaces areas;
      (e)   Information or easements showing how public and/or private
utilities, drainage and roads can be extended to serve adjacent property;
      (f)   Elevations and location of area identification signs. Any such
signs must have a practical plan for long-term ownership and maintenance
responsibilities and the information shall be submitted with the application;
      (g)   Traffic study for the subdivision, including existing and projected
traffic generation, distribution, capacity of existing streets and levels of
service. Projections shall include conditions both with and without the
project. The analysis shall include projections for a minimum of ten years
after the expected completion and build out of the proposed development;
      (h)   Documentation that the applicant has submitted to the Rice Creek
Watershed District or the Vadnais Lake Area Water Management Organization, as
applicable, a complete application as defined by those agencies. The
documentation shall be issued by the respective agency;
      (i)   For any project with multi-family units, examples of housing
product: illustration of building footprint, floor plans and building
elevations;
      (j)   Geotechnical report including soil tests for areas where streets,
building pads or onsite septic systems are proposed and other soil information
as requested by the city and as required by the city code. (Three copies of the
geotechnical report are required plus additional copies as required for
projects on county roads or highways or state highways.);
      (k)   Three copies of a wetland replacement plan, as submitted to Rice
Creek Watershed District or Vadnais Lake Area Water Management Organization,
shall be provided (if applicable);
      (l)   The preliminary plat submittal must include a build out plan (ghost
plat) illustrating a realistic future urban lot and block layout and street
system in the following situations. Development represented by this ghost plat
must be consistent with the future land use as depicted in the Comprehensive
Plan.
         1.   If the plat application includes only part of the tract owned or
intended for development by the subdivider, a ghost plat for the remaining land
shall be submitted.
         2.   If the proposed development would fully or partially isolate
adjacent land so that development of the adjacent land would involve access
through the proposed development, a ghost plat for the adjacent land shall be
submitted to show that the proposed development will not isolate, prevent
sufficient access to or otherwise prevent development of the adjacent land
according to city standards.
         3.   A rural plat located in an area planned for future urbanization
(public sewer and water provision).
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
      (m)   Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) as required by the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
(Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1001.042 FILING AND REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   (1)   Pre-application meeting. Prior to submitting a preliminary plat
application (following a concept plan review), the property owner/applicant
shall meet with the Community Development Department to discuss the preliminary
plat application. Through this meeting, the Community Development Department
may summarize the city's comments from review of the concept plan and offer
suggestions pertaining to additional information or design changes that may
assist in expediting the preliminary plat review.
   (2)   Neighborhood meeting. The city strongly recommends the property owner/
applicant hold a neighborhood meeting for informal comment and feedback prior
to preliminary plat application.
   (3)   Application. The person applying for preliminary plat approval shall
submit to the Community Development Department a complete application and all
other information required according to the deadline and meeting schedule
established by the city. The application shall address the informational
requirements of §
1001.041 and issues identified through the concept plan review procedure.
   (4)   Complete application. A complete preliminary plat application shall
include:
      (a)   A graphic and written description of the information requirements
outlined in §
1001.041; and
      (b)   A fee and processing escrow as established by the City Council.
   (5)   The preliminary plat application shall be considered to be officially
submitted when the Community Development Department has received and examined
the application and has determined that the application is complete. The
application is complete if the fee and processing escrow and all information
required by this chapter for a preliminary plat application have been
submitted. The Community Development Department shall make a determination of
completeness within 15 days and notify the applicant in writing if the
application is incomplete. The notice shall describe the missing information.
If the application is complete, the timeline for approval in division (13)
below begins upon the submittal of a complete application.
   (6)   The Community Development Department shall refer copies of the
preliminary plat to other staff, committees, consultants or agencies as
appropriate. At least 30 days prior to taking final action on a preliminary
plat, the proposed preliminary plat must be presented to the Commissioner of
Transportation for review if the plat includes or borders on a trunk highway.
Within five days after receiving a preliminary plat that includes or borders on
an existing or proposed county road, the city must submit it to the county
engineer for review. The Commissioner of Transportation and the county engineer
must report to the city within 30 days with any comments and recommendations
they may have. No preliminary plat may be approved until these comments and
recommendations are received and considered or until the 30-day period has
elapsed. Within ten days after approval of the preliminary plat, notice must be
sent to the Commissioner or the County Board explaining how the comments and
recommendations have been met.
   (7)   Upon receipt of a complete application, the Community Development
Department shall prepare a report and refer the application to the city
advisory committees, including but not limited to the Park Board, Environmental
Board, the Planning and Zoning Board, as well as the City Council.
   (8)   The application shall be reviewed by city advisory committees. The
advisory committees recommendations will be forwarded to the Planning and
Zoning Board for their consideration of the application at a public hearing.
   (9)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall hold a public hearing on the
proposed preliminary plat. Notice of the public hearing shall be published in
the official newspaper designated by the City Council at least ten days prior
to the hearing. The city shall mail written notification of the proposed
preliminary plat to property owners located within 600 feet of the subjected
site. Timing of the mailed notice shall be the same as that for the published
notice. The failure to give mailed notice to individual property owners or
defects in the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona
fide attempt to comply has been made.
   (10)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall take public testimony at their
public hearing and evaluate the requested preliminary plat against the
premature subdivision criteria of §
1001.013, the performance standards of this chapter, the performance standards
of the Lino Lakes Zoning Chapter and other city requirements. The Planning and
Zoning Board shall make findings and offer a recommendation for either
preliminary plat approval or denial. The Planning and Zoning Board may offer a
recommendation of approval with conditions necessary to satisfy city
regulations.
   (11)   The Community Development Department shall prepare a staff report for
the City Council which includes the findings and recommendations of the
Planning and Zoning Board. The findings may include specific conditions of
approval or findings related to denial of the plat.
   (12)   The City Council shall not approve the application if the applicant
has not received and submitted to the city a preliminary approval from the Rice
Creek Watershed District or the Vadnais Lake Area Water Management
Organization, as applicable.
   (13)   The City Council shall take action on the application within 120 days
following delivery of an application completed in accordance with the
regulations of this chapter, unless an extension is agreed to by the applicant.
If it approves the preliminary plat, the City Council may impose conditions it
considers necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   (14)   The City Council shall take action on the application which shall
include findings of fact and shall be entered in the proceedings of the City
Council and transmitted to the applicant in writing. The lack of a simple
majority Council vote to affirmatively approve a preliminary plat shall be a
denial of the requested application.
   (15)   Grading of the site included in the preliminary plat may occur after
approval of the preliminary plat and the approval and recording of a
development agreement for the grading work, including financial securities. The
grading development agreement shall comply with the requirements of §
1001.056 and §§
1001.140 et seq. However, grading and other site work shall not commence until
the issuance of a permit from the Rice Creek Watershed District or the Vadnais
Lake Area Water Management Organization, as applicable. This condition shall be
included in the development agreement.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
FINAL PLAT
§ 1001.055 FILING AND REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICATION.
   (1)   Approval of a preliminary plat by the City Council is an acceptance of
the general layout, as submitted and indicates that the developer may proceed
toward final plat approval in accordance with the City Council approval of the
preliminary plat, including conditions and the city growth management
standards.
   (2)   A complete application for final plat shall be submitted no later than
one year after the date of approval of the preliminary plat, or a time as
provided in the developer's agreement. Otherwise, the preliminary plat approval
shall be considered void, unless an extension is requested in writing and for
good cause, is granted by the City Council.
   (3)   The final plat applications for subsequent phases, as described by the
approved phasing plan, shall be submitted within one year of approval of the
final plat for the previous phase. An extension may be requested in writing for
City Council approval.
   (4)   In considering time extensions for final plat submittals, the City
Council shall consider the reasons for the extension. If the developer is
unable to fulfill the schedule of the approved phasing plan, the City Council
may consider allocating to a different development project the MUSA that was
committed to the next phase of the plat. The subject plat would then wait until
the following year for final plat or MUSA approval for its next phase.
   (5)   The final plat application shall have incorporated all the conditions
of City Council approval of the preliminary plat. In all other respects, the
final plat shall substantially conform to the preliminary plat. It may
constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat which the
developer proposes to record and develop at that time, provided that the
portion conforms with all the requirements of this chapter.
   (6)   Approval of the engineering specifications required by this chapter
pertaining to water supply, drainage, domestic wastewater, potable water,
street lighting, gas and electric service, grading, roadway standards, widths
and surfacing of streets shall be completed by the Community Development
Department and appropriate development contracts prepared prior to approval of
the final plat by the City Council.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
   (7)   Final plat applications shall be accompanied by the fee and processing
escrow established by the City Council.
(Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1001.056 INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR FINAL PLAT.
   (1)   The final plat application shall include the fee and processing escrow
established by the City Council, five large scale copies of the final plat,
five reproducible reductions at 11 inches by 17 inches, and one electronic copy
in a format compatible with the city's computer system, and the other
information listed below.
   (2)   If the preliminary plat approval included required changes to the
preliminary plat, the final plat application shall include five large scale
copies (22 inches by 34 inches) and one reproducible reduction at 11 inches by
17 inches and one electronic copy in a format compatible with the city's
computer system of the preliminary plat and of supporting documents
illustrating all changes and conditions that were required. This revised
preliminary plat will provide the historical record of the subdivision approval
by which subsequent final plats shall be considered.
   (3)   One up-to-date (within three months) title insurance commitment for
the property being subdivided.
   (4)   One copy of any title declaration, conservation easements, deed
restrictions, restrictive covenants, homeowner's association documents or
common interest community documents.
   (5)   Documents and information necessary to fulfill the conditions of
approval of the preliminary plat.
   (6)   Final plat general information.
      (a)   Name of the subdivision;
      (b)   Location by section, township, range, county and state as well as
descriptive boundaries of the subdivision based upon an accurate traverse,
giving angular and linear dimensions;
      (c)   Scale (engineering only) not larger than one inch equals 100 feet;
      (d)   North point indication;
      (e)   The location of monuments shall be shown and described. Monuments
shall be at all property corners;
      (f)   Location and accurate dimensions of all lots, outlots, streets and
other features. Lots and blocks shall be numbered;
      (g)   A listing of the total area of each lot measured in gross square
feet per lot, net square feet per lot, area per block and total area of the
plat;
      (h)   The exact location, widths and proposed names of all proposed
streets;
      (i)   The location and width of all easements to be dedicated;
      (j)   Land dedicated as park or trail shall be labeled park on the final
plat and dedicated with the final plat;
      (k)   Name and address of the registered surveyor of the plat with
certification in the form required by M.S. § 505.03, as may be amended from
time to time;
      (l)   Statement dedicating all easements for installation and maintenance
of utilities and drainage facilities over, under and along the areas designated
as drainage and utility easements;
      (m)   Statement dedicating all streets or other public rights-of-way to
the public;
      (n)   For all land abutting a county road, right of access shall be
dedicated to the county on the final plat. A pre-existing access may be an
exception if there is no alternative, practical means of providing access to
the property;
      (o)   Final grading, construction plans shall be prepared and submitted
in accordance with city standards;
      (p)   Copies of permits from Department of Natural Resources (DNR), Rice
Creek Watershed District or Vadnais Lake Area Watershed Management
Organization, as applicable, Corp of Engineers, Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency (MPCA) (Storm Water District Permit) and others, if applicable. The
permits shall be obtained prior to city approval of the final plat; and
      (q)   Cost estimates for all improvements.
   (7)   Additional final plat information.
      (a)   Accurate angular and lineal dimensions for all lines, angles and
curvatures used to describe boundaries, streets, easements, areas to be
reserved for public use and other important features. Lot lines to show
dimensions in feet and hundredths;
      (b)   An identification system for all lots and blocks;
      (c)   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines
or official monuments (not less than two), which shall be accurately described
in the plat;
      (d)   Municipal, township, county or section lines accurately tied to the
lines of the subdivision by distances and angles;
      (e)   Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures and lengths of all
areas;
      (f)   Accurate location of all monuments: pipes or steel rods shall be
placed at the corners of each lot;
      (g)   Accurate outlines, legal descriptions of any areas to be dedicated
or reserved for public use or for the exclusive use of property owners within
the subdivision with the purposes indicated therein;
      (h)   Certification by a registered land surveyor, to the effect that the
plat represents a survey made by him or her and that monuments and markers
shown thereof exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic details
are correct;
      (i)   Notarized certification by owner, and by any mortgage holder of
record, of the adoption of the plat, and the dedication of streets and other
public areas;
      (j)   Approval by signature of city and county officials concerned with
the approval of the plat; and
      (k)   Form for approval of the Council as follows: Approved by the
Council of the City of Lino Lakes, this _______ day of ___________________,
20_____.
   Signed   __________________________ (Mayor)
      __________________________ (City Clerk)
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1001.057 REVIEW, APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   The final plat application shall be considered to be officially submitted
when the Community Development Department has received the application and has
determined that the application is complete. The application is complete if the
fee and processing escrow and all information required by this chapter for a
final plat application have been submitted. The Community Development
Department shall make a determination of completeness within 15 days and notify
the applicant in writing if the application is incomplete. The notice shall
describe the missing information. If the application is complete, the timeline
for approval in §
1001.057(3)d. begins upon the submittal of a complete application.
   (1)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall consider the final plat and the
Community Development Department shall forward the Planning and Zoning Board
recommendations to the City Council. The following requirements shall be met
before consideration of the final plat by the Planning and Zoning Board:
      (a)   The final plat shall substantially conform to the approved
preliminary plat and phasing plan;
      (b)   For plats that consist solely of individual single family
residential lots, final plat applications for subsequent phases shall not be
approved until building permits have been issued for 40% of lots in the
preceding phase. This division applies only when the preceding phase consists
of 40 or more lots; and
      (c)   Conditions attached to approval of the preliminary plat shall be
substantially fulfilled or secured by the development agreement, as
appropriate.
   (2)   The following requirements shall be met before consideration of the
final plat by the City Council:
      (a)   The final plat shall substantially conform to the approved
preliminary plat and phasing plan;
      (b)   For plats that consist solely of individual single family
residential lots, final plat applications for subsequent phases shall not be
approved until building permits have been issued for 40% of lots in the
preceding phase. This division applies only when the preceding phase consists
of 40 or more lots;
      (c)   City attorney approval of the status of title/property ownership
related to the final plat;
      (d)   Completed development contract;
      (e)   Conditions attached to approval of the preliminary plat shall be
fulfilled or secured by the development agreement, as appropriate; and
      (f)   All fees, charges and escrow related to the preliminary or final
plat shall be paid in full.
   (3)   The City Council shall act on the final plat by resolution.
   (4)   The resolution shall include findings of fact supporting the approval
or denial and shall be entered in the proceedings of the City Council.
   (5)   The lack of a simple majority Council vote to affirmatively approve
the final plat shall be a denial of the requested application.
   (6)   The City Council shall take action on the application for a final plat
within 60 days following submittal of an application completed in accordance
with the regulations of this chapter if the applicant has complied with all
conditions and requirements of applicable regulations and all conditions and
requirements upon which the preliminary approval is expressly conditioned
either through performance or the execution of appropriate agreements assuring
performance. This period may be extended if an extension is agreed to by the
applicant.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1001.058 FORM AND CONTENT.
   The final plat shall be of the form and content as prescribed in the
Minnesota Land Surveyors Association Plat Manual of Minnesota Guidelines, as
may be amended, and by state statute.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.059 RECORDING.
   (1)   After approval of the final plat by the City Council, the developer
shall submit three mylar copies of the final plat and one electronic copy in a
format compatible with the city's computer system.
   (2)   After approval and execution of the development contract, the contract
shall be recorded.
   (3)   The developer shall record the plat within 90 days after the date of
approval, otherwise the approval of the final plat shall be considered void,
unless the developer requests and receives an extension from the City Council.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.060 RECORD PLANS.
   Upon completion of construction of roads, sanitary sewer, water mains, storm
sewer facilities and grading, the developer shall submit two sets of record
plans and one electronic copy in a format compatible with the city's computer
system, indicating all changes in the work, including accurate locations,
dimensions, elevations, grades, slopes and all other pertinent information
concerning the complete work.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
MINOR SUBDIVISION
§ 1001.075 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this section shall apply only to those subdivisions
classified as minor subdivisions.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.076 QUALIFICATION.
   The following criteria shall be used to determine if a subdivision is a
minor subdivision. In the event circumstances warrant platting of the following
minor subdivisions, the City Zoning Administrator may require the subdivision
to be processed as a plat in accordance with §§
1001.040 et seq. and §§
1001.055 et seq.
   (1)   A subdivision which results in three or fewer unsewered residential
parcels, tracts or lots from one or two existing parcels, tracts or lots,
within unsewered residential areas of the city is a minor subdivision. A
subdivision that results in more than three lots from one or two existing lots
shall be platted.
   (2)   Any subdivision that results in the creation of one or more sewered
residential lots shall be platted in full compliance with §§
1001.040 et seq. and §§
1001.055 et seq. and therefore it is not a minor subdivision.
   (3)   The exchange of abutting land between owners through the relocation of
the boundary line between two abutting, existing parcels of property, which
does not result in the creation of any new lot, is a minor subdivision.
   (4)   The creation of a new nonresidential lot shall require a plat in
compliance with §§
1001.040 et seq. and §§
1001.055 et seq. and therefore is not a minor subdivision.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
§ 1001.077 FILING AND REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   (1)   Whenever any subdivision of land that qualifies as a minor subdivision
as outlined in §
1001.076 is proposed and before any permit for the erection of a structure on
the proposed subdivision shall be granted, the subdividing owner or his or her
authorized agent shall file an application and secure approval of a minor
subdivision.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
   (2)   The minor subdivision application shall be considered to be officially
submitted when the Community Development Department has received and examined
the application and has determined that the application is complete. The
application is complete if the fee and processing escrow and all information
required by this chapter for a minor subdivision application have been
submitted.
(Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1001.078 INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (1)   Certificate of survey prepared by a licensed land surveyor identifying
the following:
      (a)   Scale (engineering only) at not larger than one inch equals 100
feet;
      (b)   Name and address, including telephone number, of legal owner and/or
agent of property;
      (c)   North point indication;
      (d)   Boundaries, dimensions and area of existing lots being subdivided
and new lots to be created;
      (e)   Legal descriptions of existing parcel and legal description of
proposed new lots;
      (f)   Easements of record;
      (g)   Water courses, including delineated wetlands. If available,
ordinary high water level (OHWL) of any DNR protected waters, 100-year flood
elevations of all watercourses (wetlands, ponds, lakes, streams and the like);
      (h)   All encroachments, easements or rights-of-way encumbering the
property;
      (i)   Existing buildings, structures and improvements within the parcel
to be platted and those 100 feet outside the boundaries of the subject parcel;
      (j)   Locations, widths and names of all public streets, rights-of-way or
railroad rights-of-way showing type, width and condition of the improvements,
if any, which pass through and/or are within 100 feet;
      (k)   Proposed driveway locations and locations of existing driveways on
the same side of the road;
      (l)   Location of any abandoned wells;
      (m)   The toe and top of any bluffs present;
      (n)   Location of a primary and an alternate site for individual sewage
treatment systems for all lots, including a lot with an existing structure and
sewage treatment system;
      (o)   Additional data requirements determined appropriate by the
Community Development Department;
      (p)   Drainage and utility easements, minimum ten feet wide, along all
lot lines. These easements may be centered on a lot line shared between lots
created by the minor subdivision;
      (q)   Any required right-of-way dedication;
      (r)   A copy of percolation tests and soil borings for all lots; and
      (s)   Additional information determined necessary by the Community
Development Department to ensure compliance with city requirements.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.079 PROCEDURE.
   (1)   Prior to formal application, concept plans shall be reviewed by the
Community Development Department.
   (2)   A formal application with required fees and processing escrow
established by the City Council shall be submitted to the Community Development
Department. The minor subdivision application shall be considered to be
officially submitted when the Community Development Department has received and
examined the application and has determined that the application is complete.
The application is complete if the fee and processing escrow and all
information required by this chapter for a final plat application have been
submitted. The Community Development Department shall make a determination of
completeness within 15 days and notify the applicant in writing if the
application is incomplete. The notice shall describe the missing information.
Examination for completeness must take into account that if the application is
complete, the timeline for approval in division (5) below begins upon the
submittal of a complete application.
   (3)   The Community Development Department shall request input by the city's
planning, engineering and legal staff, as appropriate, as part of a formal
review and preparation of a report.
   (4)   The Community Development Department shall have the authority to
request additional information pertinent to the minor subdivision and necessary
to determine compliance with applicable requirements. Failure to provide the
necessary supportive information may be grounds for denial of the request.
   (5)   The Community Development Department shall reach a decision on the
requested minor subdivision within 120 days of the submittal of a complete
application, unless the applicant agrees to an extension of the review period.
      (a)   The Community Development Director may approve the minor
subdivision with conditions that must be met to ensure the minor subdivision is
compliant with the regulations of the Lino Lakes Subdivision and Zoning
Chapters, as may be amended, and other applicable requirements.
      (b)   The Community Development Director shall prepare findings and deny
a subdivision if the minor subdivision is found to be premature as defined by
the criteria of §
1001.013 or fails to comply with regulations of the Lino Lakes Subdivision and
Zoning Chapters, as may be amended, or other applicable requirements. The
findings shall be sent to the applicant along with information on the appeal/
variance process.
   (6)   The applicant may appeal a minor subdivision denial following the
procedures outlined in the zoning chapter.
   (7)   Prior to certification by the city of the approval of the minor
subdivision, the applicant shall supply the deed(s) granting to the city the
lot line easements required in §
1001.078 or other easements found necessary and required by the City.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1001.080 RECORDING.
   If the minor subdivision is approved by the Community Development
Department, the applicant shall record the deed, and the accompanying survey,
in the office of the Anoka County recorder within 60 days after the date of
approval, otherwise the approval of the administrative subdivision shall be
considered void.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
§ 1001.081 REPORTS TO CITY COUNCIL.
   The Community Development Department shall provide to the City Council
reports summarizing submitted minor subdivision applications and outcomes
regarding approval or denial as they occur.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 1001.095 CONFORMITY WITH THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ZONING CODE.
   A proposed subdivision shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan, to related
policies adopted by the city, and to the Lino Lakes Zoning Chapter, as may be
amended.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.096 LAND REQUIREMENTS.
   (1)   Land shall be suited to the purpose for which it is to be subdivided.
No plan shall be approved if the site is not suitable for the purposes proposed
by reason of potential flooding, topography, adverse soil conditions, rock
formations or wetlands.
   (2)   Proposed subdivisions shall be coordinated with surrounding properties
and/or neighborhoods so that the city as a whole may develop efficiently and
harmoniously.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.097 BLOCKS.
   (1)   Length. The maximum length of blocks shall be 1,500 feet and the
minimum length 400 feet. Blocks over 900 feet long may require pedestrianways
at least ten feet wide at their approximate center. The use of additional
pedestrianways to schools, parks and other destinations may be required.
   (2)   Arrangement. A block shall be so designed as to provide two tiers of
lots unless it adjoins a major collector or an arterial street or where
topographic or other conditions render the block arrangement unreasonable.
   (3)   Block depth. The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to
allow two tiers of lots of appropriate depth, except where topography or other
conditions render the block depth unreasonable.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.098 LOTS.
   (1)   Area. The minimum lot area, width and depth shall not be less than
that established by the Lino Lakes Zoning Chapter in effect at the time of
adoption of the final plat. Minimum lot area for urban lots shall consist of
buildable land exclusive of utility transmission easements or water course
easements that encumber lot development.
   (2)   Corner lots. Corner lots for residential use shall have additional
width to permit appropriate building setback from both streets and a side yard
buffer yard where the side yard abuts a collector or arterial street as
required in the Lino Lakes Zoning Chapter.
   (3)   Side lot lines. Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right
angles to street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   (4)   Width. Every lot must have the minimum width measured at the minimum
front yard setback and at the setback from the OHWL of an abutting lake or
stream and extending to the location of the principal building.
   (5)   Lot frontage. All lots shall have frontage on an improved public
street that provides the required lot width at the minimum front yard setback,
except multi-family or planned unit developments that provide access via
private roads or drives. Flag lots are prohibited.
   (6)   Urban single- and two-family lot access. All new single- and two-
family urban lots shall be designed to receive access from a local street.
Direct lot access from an arterial or major collector street for these urban
lots shall be prohibited.
   (7)   Access points in new commercial, industrial and multiple-family lots.
New commercial, industrial and multiple-family lots fronting on an arterial or
major collector street shall be designed to minimize the number of direct
access points through the following methods listed in preferential order. If
the highest preference is not possible, the next preference shall be utilized
until an access method is possible.
      (a)   Access from a local street.
      (b)   Frontage road serving multiple properties.
      (c)   Frontage driveway or connected parking lot with cross easements
serving multiple properties.
      (d)   Shared driveways.
      (e)   One driveway access, no closer than 200 feet to another driveway
and that meets the city's minimum spacing standards from a street intersection.
All driveways shall be reviewed for consistency with the access management
guidelines of the Lino Lakes transportation plan.
   (8)   Setback lines. Setback or building lines shall be shown on all lots
intended for residential use and shall not be less than the setback required by
the Lino Lakes Zoning Chapter, as may be amended.
   (9)   Water courses. Water courses may be contained within abutting lots.
Water courses shall be protected by easement that will include at a minimum a
ten foot buffer extending outward from the delineated wetland boundary or the
water course ordinary high water level as defined by §
1001.007. Lots with easements protecting water courses shall have sufficient
dimensions and area outside the water course easement to meet or exceed the
minimum lot area and width specified in the Zoning Chapter for the district in
which the lots are located.
   (10)   Grading for drainage. Lots shall be graded so as to provide drainage
away from building locations and shall conform to the approved final grading
plan. Storm water drainage from an improved lot shall not be directed at an
adjoining property at a rate above a predevelopment condition except where
drainage is directed to a designed drainage easement.
   (11)   Features. In the subdividing of any land, due regard shall be shown
for all natural features, such as tree growth, water courses, historic places
or similar conditions which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and
stability to the proposed development.
   (12)   Frontage on two streets. Double frontage or lots with frontage on two
parallel streets shall not be permitted except where lots back on major
collector or arterial streets, city or state highways, or where topographic or
other conditions render subdividing otherwise unreasonable. Additional lot
depth and a landscaped buffer yard shall be provided where a lot backs onto a
major collector or arterial street.
   (13)   Irregular shaped lots. On single-family residential lots determined
to be irregular in shape (for example, triangular), the developer shall
demonstrate to the city an ability to properly place principal buildings and
accessory structures upon the site which are compatible in size and character
to the surrounding area.
   (14)   Building expansion. All single-family residential lots shall be
designed in consideration of potentials for buildings accommodating garages,
porches and decks and the like without need for setback variance. The buildings
and structures are to be compatible in size and character with the surrounding
area.
   (15)   Lot remnants/outlots. All remnants of lots below minimum lot size
left over after subdividing a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots
rather than allowed to remain as unusable parcels. Outlots may be platted
within a subdivision to delineate future development phases or commonly owned
open spaces. The outlet shall be sized in a manner to accommodate its intended
use. An outlot shall be platted into a lot and block prior to issuance of a
building permit. No building permits shall be issued for an outlot except for
open air structures allowed as a recreational component in an open space area.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
§ 1001.099 CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION DESIGN.
   (1)   Purpose. The intention of a conservation subdivision is to compatibly
integrate development with the natural features of the site to accomplish the
following objectives:
      (a)   The perpetual preservation of natural habitat areas and land forms
unique to Lino Lakes;
      (b)   The creation of open spaces for passive and active recreational
uses;
      (c)   The creation of well designed residential neighborhoods that
feature common open space; and
      (d)   The establishment of a unified landscape amenity for the enjoyment
of the city residents.
   (2)   Open space classification designations. Each open space area shall be
classified in one of the following categories: natural habitat, neighborhood
recreation or pedestrian corridor open space and shall conform to the type of
use, location criteria and deed restrictions of that classification.
      (a)   Natural habitat. The development shall preserve the maximum
quantity of natural habitat open spaces in a contiguous, connected
configuration. Natural habitat open spaces may include, but are not limited to,
fields, wetlands, slopes, bluffs, dense woods, water courses, lakes, ponds,
streams, shorelands and other environmentally sensitive areas or desirable
viewsheds. Natural habitat open spaces may be preserved as conservation
easements or outlots with shared ownership among the property owners or
dedicated to a public agency.
      (b)   Neighborhood recreation. The development shall locate neighborhood
recreation open spaces so that they are an integral part of the neighborhood of
surrounding homesites, at an elevation appropriate to their intended
recreational use, defined by coherent boundaries, and accessible to all
neighborhood residents. Neighborhood recreation open spaces may include, but
are not limited to, greens, commons, playgrounds, ballfields, gardens and the
like.
      (c)   Trail corridors. Trail corridor open spaces may include, but are
not limited to, established regional trails, local pathways or paved walkways.
Public trail corridor park land dedications shall be a minimum of 20 feet in
width. Private trail corridors may be established by easement or outlot under
the ownership of a homeowners association. Trail corridor open space shall be
used for pedestrian, bicycle and/or equestrian travel. Motorized vehicles shall
be prohibited.
      (d)   Habitable structures. Habitable structures shall not be permitted
in any of the designated open spaces. Open and recreational structures may be
permitted within open spaces.
   (3)   Ownership and management. Each designated open space designated shall
be owned and managed according to the following means, subject to city
approval.
      (a)   Common ownership. Open space may be owned in common by the property
owners created through subdivision of the original tract. Management shall be
the responsibility of that subdivision's homeowner association. In the case
where at least one open space is held in common ownership, a homeowner
association shall be established for that subdivision. Membership in the
association by all property owners in the subdivision shall be mandatory. The
homeowners association documents or the declaration of covenants, conditions
and restrictions shall be submitted as part of the preliminary plat application
and shall contain the following information:
         1.   The legal description of the common lands or facilities;
         2.   The restrictions placed upon the use and enjoyment of the lands
or facilities, including the persons or entities entitled to enforce the
restrictions;
         3.   A mechanism for resolving disputes among the owners or
association members;
         4.   A mechanism to assess and enforce the common expenses for the
land or facilities, including upkeep and maintenance expenses, real estate
taxes and insurance premiums;
         5.   The conditions and timing of the transfer of ownership and
control of land or facilities to the association or to common ownership.
      (b)   Natural habitat. Open space may be deeded to an established land
trust or non-profit organization. Management shall be the responsibility of the
land trust or non-profit organization. Maintenance may be performed by the
neighborhood homeowner association, through written agreement between the
association and the land trust or non-profit organization.
         1.   Open space may be protected by establishing conservation
easements in perpetuity in favor of an established land trust or non-profit
organization as provided in M.S. §§ 84.64 through 84.65, as they may be amended
from time to time. Unless the document establishing the restrictions
specifically provides to the contrary, the city shall have no responsibility
for the maintenance or management of the area subject to the restrictions. The
form and content of the deed or other instrument establishing the restrictions
must be approved by the city prior to the execution and delivery thereof.
Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, the city may, in
cases where conservation restrictions are utilized to meet open space
dedication requirements of this chapter, waive the requirement that the area
subject to the restrictions be platted as a separate outlot.
         2.   Stormwater drainage systems located within open spaces or the
residential lots shall be covered by utility and drainage easements dedicated
on the final plat to the city.
      (c)   Neighborhood recreational and trail corridor. Recreational open
space or trail corridors intended as public parks or public trails shall be
dedicated to the city. Management and maintenance of the public recreational
areas shall be the responsibility of the city.
   (4)   Residential lot siting.
      (a)   Residential lot areas shall consist of buildable land as defined in
§
1001.007.
      (b)   Residential lots shall be sited in a manner that preserves existing
significant tree cover on the site.
      (c)   The lots of a neighborhood may be arranged so that a majority of
the principle structures will take visual advantage of an identifiable feature,
building, structure, greenway, wetland, woods, lake, stream or other open space
which could be described as a view shed.
      (d)   The lots may be arranged that the principle structures face a local
street enhanced with landscaping, street trees, boulevards, medians or other
landscaping techniques appropriate to the city's street design standards.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
§ 1001.100 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (1)   Streets. Design criteria for streets is located in § 302.03, as
amended.
   (2)   Alleys. Alleys shall be allowed within the city in accordance with
Chapter 302.
   (3)   Streets, continuous. Except for cul-de-sacs, streets shall connect
with streets already dedicated in adjoining or adjacent subdivisions or provide
for future connections to adjoining unsubdivided tracts, or shall be a
reasonable projection of streets in the nearest subdivided tracts. The
arrangement of thoroughfares and collector streets shall be considered in their
relation to the reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographic conditions,
to runoff of storm water, to public convenience and safety, and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the area to be served.
   (4)   Street plans for future subdivisions. Where the plat application
includes only part of the tract owned or intended for development by the
subdivider, a build out plan (ghost plat) illustrating a proposed future street
system for the unsubdivided portion shall be prepared and submitted by the
subdivider.
   (5)   Temporary cul-de-sac. In those instances where a street is terminated
pending future extension in conjunction with future subdivision and more than
200 feet between the dead-end and the nearest intersection, a temporary turn
around facility shall be provided at the closed end, in conformance with cul-
de-sac requirements. This temporary cul-de-sac must be placed inside a
temporary roadway easement if it is located outside the street right-of-way.
Financial security will be required for removal or restoration as determined by
the city engineer.
   (6)   Provisions for resubdivision of large lots and parcels. When a tract
is subdivided into larger than normal building lots or parcels, the lots or
parcels shall be so arranged as to permit the logical location and openings of
future streets and appropriate resubdivision, with provision for adequate
utility connections for the resubdivision.
   (7)   Subdivisions abutting major rights-of-way. Wherever the proposed
subdivision contains or is adjacent to the right-of-way of a United States or
state highway, city road, local collector or local arterial street, provision
may be made for a service street approximately parallel and adjacent to the
boundary of the right-of-way; provided that due consideration is given to
proper circulation design, setbacks from an intersection on the major rights-
of-way or for a street at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of land
between the street and right-of-way. The distance shall be determined with due
consideration of the minimum distance required for approach connections to
future grade separations or for lot depths.
   (8)   Compliance with the Lino Lakes transportation plan. All subdivisions
incorporating streets which are identified in the city transportation plan, as
amended, shall comply with the minimum right-of-way, surface width and design
standards as outlined in the plan and must be reviewed and approved by the city
engineer.
   (9)   Access management requirements. All subdivisions shall be reviewed for
its consistency with the access management guidelines of the Lino Lakes
transportation plan.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
§ 1001.101 EASEMENTS.
   (1)   Lot lines. Drainage and utility easements at least ten feet wide shall
be provided on all lot lines (see diagram below). These easements may be
centered on common rear and side lot lines. At a minimum, these easements shall
be ten feet wide along all lot lines on streets and along all boundaries with
land not being developed. The easements shall have continuity of alignment from
block to block. At deflection points, an easement for a pole line anchor shall
be provided where necessary.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2620.jpg]
 
   (2)   Drainage channels. Easements shall be provided along each side of the
centerline of any waterway or drainage channel. The easements shall be of a
sufficient width to provide for proper maintenance and protection of the
waterway or channel, stormwater runoff and the installation and maintenance of
drainage systems. The easements for drainage purposes shall not be less than 20
feet in width.
   (3)   Utilities. Easements shall be provided for all sanitary sewer, water
main and stormwater facilities. The easements shall be of a sufficient width to
provide for access, proper maintenance and protection of the facilities.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.102 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT AND EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   (1)   The natural drainage shall be used as far as is feasible for the
storage and flow of runoff. The design of a drainage system shall conform to
any overall storm water drainage plan for the area. The following requirements
shall also apply:
      (a)   Storm water drainage shall be consistent with policies and
standards of the Lino Lakes local water management plan, as may be amended;
      (b)   No existing ditch, stream, drain or drainage channel shall be
deepened, widened, re-routed or filled without written permission from the city
and other governmental agencies; and
      (c)   1.   Where drainage channels must be constructed to augment the
natural drainage system, the channels, as well as the natural drainageways, may
be planned as a part of a recreational trail system.
         2.   When this is done, channels shall be designed to be aesthetically
compatible for recreational trail use.
   (2)   Either Rice Creek Watershed or VLAWMO shall approve all subdivision
grading, drainage and wetland mitigation plans.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.103 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   Telephone, electric, cable, gas service lines and/or other public utilities
are to be placed underground in accordance with city standards.
   (1)   Developers shall apply for city permits to install underground
utilities in public rights-of-way.
   (2)   The city shall approve all utilities prior to installation.
   (3)   Public utilities shall be installed in a joint trench in accordance
with city standards.
   (4)   Conduit shall be installed for all road crossings.
   (5)   Public utility installation shall not occur until one week after all
curb has been backfilled.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
PUBLIC LAND DEDICATION
§ 1001.115 PROPERTY DEDICATION.
   (1)   A reasonable portion of every proposed subdivision shall be dedicated
to the city for public streets, roads, utility easements, water facilities,
storm water drainage and holding areas or ponds and other similar utilities and
improvements.
   (2)   As a prerequisite to any subdivision approval, and at the sole
determination by the city, applicants and/or developers shall dedicate land for
parks, playgrounds, public open spaces or trails and/or shall make a cash
contribution to the city's park dedication fund roughly related to the
anticipated effect of the subdivision on the park and trail system. The amounts
listed in this section are the city's best estimate of the dedication or cash
contribution needed to offset the effect of the subdivision on the park and
trail system. The requirement may also be met with a combination of land and
cash if approved by the City Council.
   (3)   Land shall be reasonably suitable for its intended use and shall be at
a location convenient to the people to be served. Factors used in evaluating
the adequacy of proposed park and recreation areas shall include size, shape,
topography, geology, hydrology, tree cover, access and location, and future
park needs pursuant to the Comprehensive Plan. Wetlands, ponding areas, and
drainage ways shall not be eligible for park dedication credit. Park land to be
dedicated shall be above the ordinary high water level. Grades exceeding 12% or
areas unsuitable for park development shall not be considered for dedication.
Land with trash, junk, pollutants and/or unwanted structures is not acceptable.
   (4)   The applicant shall confer with city staff and the Park Board at the
time the preliminary plat is under consideration, to secure a recommendation as
to the location of any property to be dedicated for parks and open space. The
preliminary plat shall show the location and dimensions of all areas to be
dedicated. The contribution requirement recommendation(s) will be sent to the
Planning and Zoning Board for review and comment and subsequently to the City
Council for their approval.
   (5)   When a proposed park, playground, recreation area or other public
ground has been indicated in the city's official map or comprehensive plan and
is located in whole or in part within a proposed plat, it shall be dedicated as
park to the appropriate governmental unit. For an unplatted subdivision, this
public ground shall be conveyed to the appropriate governmental unit by other
means as a condition of approval. If the applicant elects not to dedicate an
area in excess of the land required hereunder for the proposed public site, the
city may consider acquiring the excess land through purchase or condemnation.
   (6)   Where private open space for park and recreation purposes is provided
in a proposed subdivision, the areas may be used for credit, at the discretion
of the City Council, against the land or cash dedication requirement for park
and recreation purposes, provided the City Council finds it is in the public
interest to do so and provided there is a legally enforceable mechanism in
place to ensure that the private open space shall remain permanent open space.
   (7)   The city, upon consideration of the particular type of development,
may require that a lesser parcel of land should be dedicated due to particular
features of the development. In these cases, a cash contribution shall be
required above the land dedication to ensure that compensation is received for
the full amount of the impact on the city's park and trail system.
   (8)   In all new residential, commercial and industrial subdivisions, 10% of
the area subdivided shall be dedicated for public recreation space or other
public use as established by City Council resolution. A different percentage
may be applied as the City Council shall determine to be reasonably necessary
as a result of the subdivision approval. This 10% shall be calculated on the
net area, which is the gross area of the subdivided property minus the area in
wetlands. The land dedicated for public recreation shall be in addition to
property dedicated for streets, alleys, easements or other public ways. No
areas may be dedicated for public use until the areas have been approved by the
City Council as suitable and necessary for the health, safety, convenience and
general welfare of the city.
   (9)   All land proposed for park, trail and/or open space dedication shall
be subject to the recommendations of the Park Board and approval of the City
Council.
   (10)   The city may at its discretion choose to require a cash fee as set by
ordinance in lieu of land dedication for some or all of the new lots created in
the subdivision. Combined land dedication and cash in lieu of land shall be
calculated as follows.
      (a)   The total number of residential dwelling units in the development
shall be multiplied by the residential per unit park dedication charge
established by the City Council. The result of this calculation is equal to the
cash-in-lieu total if all park dedication for the subdivision were to be cash
in lieu of land.
 
(total number of lots) x (park dedication charge) = cash-in-lieu total
 
      (b)   1.   The value of land being dedicated shall be based on the per-
acre market value of the land multiplied by the number of acres being
dedicated:
 
(acres of land dedication) x (per-acre market value) = value of land dedication
 
         2.   The market value of the land shall be based on an appraisal of
fair market value of the unplatted land (for which park fees have not already
been paid) no later than the time of approval of the final plat.
      (c)   The amount of cash to be contributed in combination with land is
the cash-in-lieu balance, which shall be calculated with the following formula:
 
(cash-in-lieu total) - (value of land dedication) = cash-in-lieu balance
 
   (11)   Planned unit developments with mixed land uses shall make cash and/or
land contributions in accordance with this section based upon the percentage of
land devoted to the various uses.
   (12)   Cash dedications shall be included in the development agreement and
paid prior to the city's signature of and release of the final plat. For
subdivisions that do not require a development agreement, the cash dedication
shall be paid before the city releases the signed approval of the subdivision
for recording.
   (13)   Cash contributions for parks and trails shall be deposited in either
the city's park fund or multi purpose trail fund and shall only be used for
park acquisition or development, and trail acquisition or development as
determined by the city.
   (14)   Property being re-subdivided with the same number of lots and same
number of dwelling units shall be exempt from all park land dedication
requirements. If the number of lots or the number of dwelling units is
increased, or if land outside of the previously recorded plat is added, then
the park land dedication and/or park cash contributions shall be based on the
additional lots and on the additional land being added to the plat.
   (15)   If the applicant or developer does not believe that the requirements
contained in this section fairly and accurately represent the effect of the
subdivision on the park or trail system of the city, the applicant or developer
may request that the city prepare an in depth study of the effect of the
subdivision on the park and trail system and an estimate of that effect in
money and/or land. All costs of the study shall be paid by the developer or
applicant. If the developer requests the preparation of a study, no application
for the development shall be deemed complete until the study has been completed
and a determination is made as to the appropriate amount of land or money
necessary to offset the effects of the subdivision.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 5-29-2001; Am. Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-
09, passed 2-23-2009.)
TREE PRESERVATION
§ 1001.125 GENERAL.
   The following process for preserving significant trees shall be required of
subdividers.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.126 TREE PRESERVATION BY SUBDIVIDERS.
   (1)   Subdividers shall:
      (a)   Incorporate the preservation of trees into the overall design of
the plat;
      (b)   Prepare a tree preservation plan superimposed on the grading plan,
as described below;
      (c)   Ensure the tree preservation plan is followed during the plan
development (mass grading);
      (d)   Provide a financial guarantee as part of the development agreement
to guarantee the preparation and implementation of the preservation plan and
the replacement of all significant trees which were to be saved but were
actually destroyed or damaged. The financial security in an amount determined
by the City Council and adopted by ordinance shall be provided for:
         1.   Each mass graded lot with at least one significant tree to be
saved;
         2.   Each custom graded lot with at least one significant tree on the
lot; and
         3.   Each outlot with at least one significant tree;
      (e)   Install snow fencing or polyethylene laminar safety netting at the
drip line or critical root zones of trees to be saved;
      (f)   Install signage at all tree protection areas that instruct workers
to stay out;
      (g)   Install erosion control measures;
      (h)   Keep tree protection measures in place and in good condition until
all grading and construction activity is terminated; and
      (i)   Prevent change in soil chemistry due to concrete wash out and
leakage or spillage of toxic materials such as fuels or paints.
   (2)   (a)   No soil disturbance shall occur within the subdivision until the
tree preservation plan is approved, financial securities have been submitted
and development agreement approved, and tree protection measures are in place
on site.
      (b)   Construction staging areas and areas for the storage of equipment
and stockpiling of materials shall not be within tree protection areas.
      (c)   Fill shall not be placed against tree trunks, under the drip line
or in critical root zones of trees to be saved.
      (d)   Pruning of oak trees shall not take place from April 1 through July
15. If wounding of oak trees occurs, a non-toxic tree wound dressing must be
applied immediately. Excavators shall have a non-toxic tree wound dressing with
them on the development site.
   (3)   A tree preservation plan shall be submitted and shall consist of the
following items:
      (a)   Tree inventory, prepared by a licensed land surveyor and a forester
or landscape architect, that includes the size, species, tag numbers and
locations of all significant trees, specimen trees, and significant tree stands
on the entire property included in the preliminary plat;
      (b)   Mass graded areas and proposed grades. Changes in grades should be
well planned with the objective of preserving significant trees;
      (c)   Custom graded lots;
      (d)   All significant trees proposed to be saved and significant trees
proposed to be removed in soil disturbance areas;
      (e)   The plan shall designate tree save zones for:
         1.   Areas not in soil disturbance areas;
         2.   All specimen trees to be saved; and
         3.   All significant tree stands to be saved.
      (f)   Measures proposed to protect significant trees, including, but not
limited to:
         1.   Tree removal procedures, including directional felling away from
existing trees to be saved and trenching to separate root systems prior to
bulldozing trees or stumps;
         2.   Installation of signage at all tree protection areas that
instruct workers to stay out;
         3.   Installation of snow fencing or polyethylene laminar safety
netting at the drip line or critical root zones of trees to be saved;
         4.   Installation of erosion control measures;
         5.   Designation of a construction staging area along with a
designated area for the storage of equipment and stockpiling of materials that
is not within tree save zones;
         6.   Construction access locations; and
         7.   Overlay of the subdivision utility plan on the tree preservation
plan to strategically lay out utility locations and trenches in a manner that
protects trees to be saved. Individual utility stubs to home sites shall be
reviewed for compliance with tree preservation plans.
   (4)   After mass grading has been completed and streets and utilities
installed, the subdivider's forester or landscape architect shall:
      (a)   Certify in writing to the city the status of all trees indicated as
trees to be saved in the approved plan;
      (b)   Certify in writing to the city whether tree protection measures
were installed; and
      (c)   Certify the status of any remove-designated trees that were saved.
   (5)   If a significant tree indicated to be saved on the tree preservation
plan is destroyed or damaged, it shall be replaced in accordance with the tree
replacement requirements of §
1001.127.
   (6)   The financial security will be released upon:
      (a)   Certification in writing by the forester or landscape architect
indicating that the tree protection measures were installed on mass graded lots
and tree replacement is completed, if necessary. These must be confirmed by the
city; and
      (b)   The home builders having posted a security for the custom graded
lots.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
§ 1001.127 TREE REPLACEMENT.
   (1)   Subdividers and/or home builders shall be required to replace
significant trees which were indicated on the tree preservation plan to be
saved but ultimately were destroyed or damaged. Each significant tree that was
supposed to be saved but was destroyed or damaged shall be replaced with two
replacement trees.
   (2)   Replacement trees shall consist of nursery stock and be no less than
the following sizes:
      (a)   Deciduous trees: No less than two and one-half inches in diameter;
and
      (b)   Coniferous trees: No less than six feet high;
   (3)   Replacement trees shall be species similar to the trees which were
destroyed or damaged and can include those species shown on the following
table:
      (a)   Deciduous trees: maple, oak, linden, ash, honeylocust, birch,
hackberry; and
      (b)    Coniferous trees: fir, red pine, white spruce, eastern red cedar,
black hills spruce, white pine, Austrian pine, northern white cedar.
   (4)   Unacceptable trees: The following trees are unacceptable because of
structural instability, susceptibility to disease, or because they are invasive
species:
      (a)   Deciduous: Norway maple, Siberian elm, silver maple, cottonwood,
amur maple; and
      (b)   Coniferous: Colorado spruce.
   (5)   Replacement trees shall not be placed on easements or street rights-
of-way. Prior to planting replacement trees, the subdivider or home builder
shall submit for city review and approval the locations of the replacement
trees.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 1001.140 REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (1)   No final plat shall be approved by the City Council until improvements
and construction of the land, streets and trails, together with all other
necessary facilities in the plat have been designed and satisfactorily arranged
in accordance with provisions of the regulations for land improvement and
construction and conditions of subdivision approval. In addition to
construction on land, streets and trails, the developer, as part of the final
plat, shall install and pay for light poles, fixtures and street name signs as
approved by the city and the utility company serving the location. The
installations shall be completed before the street is surfaced.
   (2)   The following is a detailed description of public improvements
required to be completed for each final plat:
      (a)   Grading, drainage, wetland mitigation and erosion control;
      (b)   Sanitary sewer facilities;
      (c)   Water facilities;
      (d)   Storm sewer;
      (e)   Streets;
      (f)   Street and traffic signs;
      (g)   Sidewalks and trails;
      (h)   Street lights; and
      (i)   Subdivision monuments.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.141 SUBDIVISION MONUMENTS.
   (1)   Durable iron monuments meeting the minimum requirements of state law
shall be set at all angle and curve points on the outside boundary lines of the
plat and also at all block and lot corners and at all intermediate points on
the block and lot lines indicating changes of direction in the lines and
witness corners.
   (2)   All federal, state, city or other official benchmarks, monuments, or
triangular stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in
precise position and shall be recorded on the plat.
   (3)   To ensure that all irons and monuments are correctly in place
following the final grading of a plat and construction of utilities, financial
security will be required as determined by the city engineer.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.142 REQUIRED PRIVATE IMPROVEMENTS.
   As part of the final plat, the following private improvements shall be
required where applicable to a new subdivision:
   (1)   Where public sewer and water facilities are not available for
extension into the proposed subdivision, the city may permit the use of
individual water and sewer systems in accordance with city and state
regulations, as may be amended;
   (2)   Communal or shared on-site sewage and water systems may be allowed
within a subdivision provided:
      (a)   All on-site communal sewage treatment systems shall conform to the
performance standards of Minnesota Pollution Control Agency's Standards for
Sewage Treatment Systems, Minn. Rules, Ch. 7080, as amended from time to time;
      (b)   All subdivision proposals shall be reviewed by the city for
suitability of platted lots to accommodate communal sewage treatment systems
and water systems;
      (c)   A communal sewage system shall include a community management plan
that is controlled by an entity with the authority to bill system users for the
costs of maintenance, management, operation and repair of the system. The
community management plan shall be subject to the review and approval of the
city; and
      (d)   Subdivisions with communal sewage treatment systems shall reserve
land area for a replacement system.
   (3)   Required landscaping, buffer yards and tree preservation shall be
installed and maintained in accordance with plans approved by the city.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
§ 1001.143 IMPROVEMENT FINANCING.
   All public improvements for new subdivisions shall be financed and secured
in accordance with public improvement financing policies of Lino Lakes, as may
be amended.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.144 UTILITY AREA AND UNIT CHARGES.
   The following utility area and unit charges shall be collected with any new
subdivisions in accordance with the public improvement financing policy of Lino
Lakes, as may be amended:
   (1)   Trunk sewer area and unit charges;
   (2)   Trunk water main area and unit charges; and
   (3)   Surface water management planning (SWMP) and storm sewer trunk (SST)
charges.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.145 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   (1)   Prior to commencing grading, wetland mitigation or the installation of
any required improvements, the developer shall enter into a written development
agreement with the city requiring the developer to furnish, construct and
complete the work in accordance with plans and specifications and usual
agreement conditions and/or pay appropriate costs for improvements or other
costs associated with the plat. Further, the agreement shall provide for the
development of any restrictions, covenants, easements, signage, park or open
space requirements, or other conditions of the approved preliminary plat and
provide for the proper execution, recording or other action required. Further,
the agreement shall require that grading and other site work shall not commence
until the issuance of a permit from the Rice Creek Watershed District or the
Vadnais Lake Area Water Management Organization, as applicable. Approval of the
development agreement shall be by City Council resolution.
   (2)   At the city's discretion, an initial development agreement may be
prepared to allow for grading, wetland mitigation and installation of
stormwater management facilities on the entire site included in the approved
preliminary plat. The work may begin after approval of the preliminary plat but
only after approval and execution of the development agreement and submittal of
financial securities for the work. The work must comply with the approved
grading plan.
   (3)   The construction of streets, facilities for sanitary sewer and water
and other improvements beyond grading, wetland and stormwater facilities shall
not begin until approval of a final plat and shall only be installed in the
area included in the approved final plat. Each project phase shall require a
separate development agreement for improvements beyond those covered in
previous agreements. Improvements in each phase shall not begin until the final
plat for that phase is approved, and the development agreement for the phase is
approved, executed and recorded and financial securities for the improvements
have been posted with the city. If an initial development agreement for
grading, wetland mitigation, and installation of stormwater management
facilities is not approved, the work shall be included in the same agreement
that covers the construction of streets, sanitary sewer, water and other
improvements.
   (4)   The initial development agreement (for grading) may address
construction of streets and facilities for sanitary sewer and water for the
first phase and list the financial securities and other requirements. However,
the agreement shall stipulate that the work on these improvements shall not
begin until approval of the final plat for the land that includes those
improvements and the provision of all financial securities by the developer.
   (5)   Each approved and executed development agreement shall be recorded
against the property. Each agreement shall require that it is to be binding
upon the developer, his, her or their heirs, personal representative and
assigns. It shall stipulate that:
      (a)   All improvements called for in the plat, or in any supplementary
agreements, must be complete within the time specified by the city;
      (b)   No private construction shall be conducted on any lots in the plat
nor shall any building permits be issued for construction on the lots until all
improvements required under the city regulations for the proposed subdivision
have been made or arranged in a manner provided for in this section. The
following division (5)(c) below provides an exception to this prohibition; and
      (c)   A building permit for one dwelling unit for every ten gross acres
that is within the subdivision may be issued to be used as a model home after
approval of the final plat. The right to obtain building permits shall be
contingent upon the following:
         1.   Execution of a development contract with financial securities
addressing the structure;
         2.   Construction shall be limited to maintain a maximum distance of
150 feet from the furthest exterior wall to an improved gravel street as per
the State Fire Code. The developer may construct and maintain access in order
to meet the requirements; and
         3.   Prior to release of the building permits, the builder shall enter
into a separate agreement with the city which would not allow the building to
be occupied after issuance of certificate of occupancy by anyone other than the
builder for exhibiting the home for model purposes nor would they convey the
property to any other third parties by any means until all of the public and
private utilities have been installed to serve the building and accepted by the
city.
   (6)   The development agreement shall include provisions for construction
work inspection by the city and assurance that the developer will conform with
current testing requirements and quality control procedures of the city. The
developer shall provide documentation from a qualified testing laboratory and/
or registered professional engineer that all improvements have been constructed
in accordance with the requirements of the approved plans and specifications.
   (7)   The development agreement shall require the developer to provide a
certification from a registered land surveyor or engineer that the land
included in the plat has been graded in conformance with the approved grading
plan prior to the issuance of building permits.
   (8)   The development agreement shall require the developer to provide
financial securities to ensure payment of fees related to the subdivision and
completion of all improvements. The agreement shall also require that the
financial securities shall be submitted to the city prior to the commencement
of the work covered by the agreement.
   (9)   A time schedule for completion of the work shall be determined by the
city upon recommendation of the city engineer after consultation with the
developer and shall be reasonable in relation to the work to be done, the
seasons of the year and proper coordination with construction activity in the
subdivision.
   (10)   The development agreement shall include action remedies in the event
of default, including:
      (a)   The city may complete the improvements by contract or force and
obtain reimbursement of its costs from the posted security deposit; and
      (b)   The city reserves the right to withhold building permits for
violation of any terms of the development agreement.
   (11)   The development agreement shall require, when a plat includes an area
of 100-year flood, as indicated on the flood insurance rate map of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), an application for a letter of map
amendment (LOMA) or letter of map revision (LOMR) shall be submitted to FEMA,
and a copy furnished to the city, prior to the issuance of any building permits
in the platted area. The development agreement may include financial security
to ensure the preparation of the FEMA application.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
§ 1001.146 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   A minimum of three copies of the construction plans shall be furnished to
the city for city engineer review and approval. Additional copies may be
required by the city. Construction plans for the required improvements shall
conform in all respects with all applicable ordinances and standards of the
city. Construction documents shall be prepared, at the expense of the
developer, by a licensed professional who is registered in the state, and the
plans shall contain his or her certification. The plans, together with the
quantities of construction items, shall be submitted to the city engineer for
his or her approval and for his or her estimate of the total cost of the
required improvements. Upon approval, they shall become a part of the
development agreement.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.147 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The developer shall be required to maintain all improvements in the
subdivision or on the individual subdivided lots and provide for snow removal
and maintenance of streets, if required, until acceptance of the improvements
by the City Council in coordination with the development agreement.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
§ 1001.148 FINANCIAL SECURITY.
   The developer shall provide financial security in accordance with the Lino
Lakes public improvement financing policy, as amended. A development agreement
shall include a description of the required securities.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 2-23-2009.)
§ 1001.149 ENFORCEMENT.
   (1)   Violations. The violation of any provision of this chapter or the
violation of the conditions or provisions of any permit issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, the violator shall
be subject to fine or imprisonment or both, as set forth in Minnesota Statutes,
plus, in either case, the cost of prosecution.
   (2)   Penalties. Unless otherwise provided, each act of violation and every
day on which the violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.150 APPLICATION TO CITY PERSONNEL.
   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any official
duty imposed by this chapter shall not subject the officer or employee to a
penalty imposed for violation unless a penalty is specifically provided for the
failure.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.151 INJUNCTION.
   In the event of a violation or the threatened violation of any provision of
this chapter, or any provision or condition of a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter, the city, in addition to other remedies, may institute appropriate
actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct or abate the violation or
threatened violation.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
§ 1001.152 SEVERABILITY AND SUPREMACY.
   (1)   Severability.
      (a)   Every section, provision or part of this chapter or any permit
issued pursuant to this chapter is declared separable from every other section,
provision or part thereof to the extent that if any section, provision or part
of this chapter or any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be held
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, it shall not invalidate any other
section, provision or part thereof.
      (b)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall judge invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular property, building
or structure, the judgment shall not affect other properties, buildings or
structures.
   (2)   Supremacy.
      (a)   When any condition imposed by a provision of this chapter on the
use of land or building or on the bulk of buildings is either more restrictive
or less restrictive than similar conditions imposed by any provision of any
other city ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive conditions shall
prevail.
      (b)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easements,
restrictions or covenants relating to the use of land within the city by
private declaration or agreement, but where the provisions of this chapter are
more restrictive than any easement, restriction or covenant, or the provision
of any private agreement, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-24-2003)
CHAPTER 1002: FIRE CODE
Section
Fire Code
   
1002.01   Fire Code adoption
   
1002.02   Definitions
   
1002.03   Application, administration and enforcement
   
1002.04   Permits and fees
   
1002.05   Penalties
   
1002.06   Chapter self-perpetuating
Fireworks
   
1002.10   Generally
   
1002.11   Purpose
   
1002.12   Definitions
   
1002.13   Sale of fireworks
   
1002.14   Permit application
   
1002.15   Permit fee
   
1002.16   Terms and conditions for issuance of permit
   
1002.17   Discharge rules and regulations
   
1002.18   Fireworks - other
   
1002.19   Permit denial, suspension and revocation
   
1002.20   Validity
   
1002.21   Penalties
FIRE CODE
§ 1002.01 FIRE CODE ADOPTION.
   The Minnesota State Fire Code, as adopted pursuant to M.S. § 299F.011, as it
may be amended from time to time, and as modified by Minnesota Rules, Chapter
7511, shall be applicable within the City of Lino Lakes.
(Ord. 12-00, passed 8-14-2000; Am. Ord. 10-07, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 1002.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (1)   Whenever the word JURISDICTION is used in the Minnesota State Fire
Code, it shall mean the City of Lino Lakes.
   (2)   Whenever the term THIS CODE is used in the Minnesota State Fire Code
or this subchapter, it shall mean the code adopted pursuant to this subchapter.
   (3)   Whenever the term FIRE DEPARTMENT or FIRE DIVISION is used, it shall
mean the Lino Lakes Public Safety Department - Fire Division.
(Ord. 12-00, passed 8-14-2000; Am. Ord. 10-07, passed 8-27-2007; Ord. 02-16,
passed 6-13-2016)
§ 1002.03 APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The application, administration and enforcement of the code shall be in
accordance with the Minnesota State Fire Code.
   (1)   The Public Safety Director, or his/her designee, is authorized to
enforce the provisions of the Minnesota State Fire Code and this subchapter.
   (2)   The Public Safety Director, or his/her designee, may detail the
members of the Public Safety Department as may be necessary to administer and
enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 8-27-2007; Ord. 02-16, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 1002.04 PERMITS AND FEES.
   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be assessed for
work governed by this code in accordance with the city's adopted fee schedule
and as set forth in the Minnesota State Fire Code.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 8-27-2007)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1002.05 PENALTIES.
   A person who violates the provisions of the Minnesota State Fire Code or
this subchapter after being given written notice shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day's violation after notice thereof shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 12-00, passed 8-14-2000; Am. Ord. 10-07, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 1002.06 CHAPTER SELF-PERPETUATING.
   This subchapter shall perpetually include the most current edition of the
Minnesota State Fire Code.
(Ord. 12-00, passed 8-14-2000; Am. Ord. 10-07, passed 8-27-2007)
FIREWORKS
§ 1002.10 GENERALLY.
   (1)   Fireworks are regulated by M.S. 624.20, as it may be amended from time
to time.
   (2)   In addition to these regulations all display, sales, storage and use
of consumer fireworks shall comply with this fire regulation.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 5-28-2002)
§ 1002.11 PURPOSE.
   Due to the inherent risks of fire and injury to persons and property
associated with the sale, possession and use of fireworks, the City Council has
determined that it is necessary and in the interest of public health, safety
and welfare to establish reasonable regulations concerning fireworks.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 5-28-2002)
§ 1002.12 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
      (a)   As defined in M.S. Ch. 624.20, Subd. (a), (b) and (c), as they may
be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 5-28-2002)
      (b)   Small fireworks devices containing restricted amounts of
pyrotechnic composition, designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion, that comply with the construction, chemical composition
and labeling regulations of the United States Consumer Product Safety
Commission (CPSC), as set forth in CPSC 16 C.F.R. §§ 1500 and 1507, 49 C.F.R. §
172 and APA Standard 87-1, Standard for the Construction and Approval for
Transportation of Fireworks, Novelties and Theatrical Pyrotechnics.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS RETAIL SALES AREA.
      (a)   The portion of a consumer fireworks retail sales facility or store,
including the immediately adjacent aisles, where consumer fireworks are located
for the purpose of retail display and sale to the public.
      (b)   Examples of this would be the fireworks display area inside a
mercantile occupancy that is not in the sole business of selling consumer
fireworks.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS RETAIL SALES FACILITY. A permanent or temporary building
or structure, CFRS stand, tent, canopy or membrane structure that is used
primarily for the retail display and sale of consumer fireworks to the public.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS RETAIL SALES STAND. A temporary or permanent building or
structure that has a floor area not greater than 800 square feet, other than
tents, canopies or membrane structures, that is used primarily for the retail
display and sale of consumer fireworks to the public.
   FLAME BREAK. A solid material without holes or other openings, used to
retard the spread of flame.
   STORE. A building classified as a mercantile occupancy that contains a
variety of merchandise and that is not used primarily for the retail sales of
consumer fireworks.
   TEMPORARY. As applied to buildings or structures: a building or structure
not meeting the definition for permanent structure. As applied to electrical
power and wiring: electrical service in use or in place for a period of 90
consecutive calendar days or less.
§ 1002.13 SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, expose for sale, sell
at retail or wholesale or make any public display of any consumer fireworks in
the City of Lino Lakes without a permit. The sale, use and possession of all
fireworks in violation of M.S. §§ 624.20 through 624.25 inclusive, as they may
be amended from time to time, which are adopted herein by reference, is
prohibited.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 5-28-2002)
§ 1002.14 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The application for the permit for the storage and sale of consumer
fireworks shall be made to the City Clerk and shall include:
   (1)   A criminal records check and determination by the Fire Chief or
designee that the location where the fireworks are to be stored or sold is not
hazardous to property or endangers any person and that the persons in charge of
selling or storing the fireworks are competent and trained to handle fireworks
must be made prior to processing the application.
   (2)   The application for permit shall be accompanied by a letter from the
person legally responsible for the property on which the sale is to take place.
The letter shall grant permission to the applicant for the use of the property.
The application shall include a floor plan designating the area for storage or
display along with a list documenting the name, weight and quantity of
fireworks within the building and be accompanied by the material safety data
sheets.
   (3)   Applications must be made a minimum of ten days prior to operating.
Any permit granted hereunder shall be nontransferable. Prior to the issuance of
a permit, the premises shall be inspected and approved by the city fire code
official.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 5-28-2002)
§ 1002.15 PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for the permit shall be that as provided in the current city fee
schedule.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 5-28-2002)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1002.16 TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   A permit for storage or retail sale of common fireworks shall be issued only
upon the following terms and conditions.
   (1)   Neither the applicant nor the responsible party for the permit shall
have been convicted of a felony unless the conviction was discharged pursuant
to; or a fire fireworks-related misdemeanor within the last three years.
   (2)   The applicant's location or place of business shall be only in those
areas or zones within the city wherein commercial or industrial activities are
authorized under the applicable zoning laws of the city. Transient sales of
fireworks are not permitted. No sales or storage for commercial use shall occur
on residentially zoned property or properties used for educational purposes or
assemblies.
   (3)   Firework storage or sales areas shall provide approved "no smoking"
signs in red letters not less than two inches in height on white background.
All signs shall be maintained in legible condition.
   (4)   Smoking and the discharge of fireworks shall be prohibited within 100
feet of any building or stand in which fireworks are stored or sold.
   (5)   Each permit holder shall have not less than two water-type or
equivalent extinguishers of not less than two and one-half gallon capacity.
   (6)   There shall be at least two exits from all buildings from which
fireworks are stored or sold.
   (7)   In buildings without an approved automatic sprinkler system, retail
consumer fireworks indoor sales displays shall be limited to 50 pounds net
pyrotechnic composition or 200 pounds gross weight, if the pyrotechnic
composition weight in not known.
   (8)   Buildings protected throughout by an approved automatic sprinkler
system shall be limited to 100 pounds net, or 400 pounds gross weight if the
pyrotechnic composition weight is not known.
   (9)   Warehouse buildings or retail in excess of the quantities listed in
divisions (7) and (8) for retail consumer fireworks shall be classified as an
"H" occupancy with explosives and aerosols.
   (10)   The license must be publicly displayed on the licensed premises. The
premises are subject to inspection by city employees including police officers
during normal business hours.
   (11)   Storage for consumer fireworks must be in compliance with the
Minnesota State Fire Code. The premises must be in compliance with the
Minnesota State Fire Code and Uniform Building Code.
   (12)   Consumer fireworks shall not be sold to persons under the age of 18.
   (13)   Consumer fireworks shall not be used on public property.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 5-28-2002)
§ 1002.17 DISCHARGE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (1)   It is unlawful to use, fire or discharge any fireworks along the route
of and during any parade or at any place of public assembly or in any
commercial use district.
   (2)   It is unlawful at any time to throw or toss any fireworks at any
person, animal, vehicle or other thing or object.
   (3)   Smoking and the discharge of fireworks shall be prohibited within 100
feet of any building or stand in which fireworks are sold at retail or stored
after hours.
   (4)   Fireworks may only be discharged in an area with a water source
connected to a hose or other acceptable means of putting out a fire.
   (5)   The Fire Chief may ban fireworks or shorten the season of the
fireworks discharge if a drought is evident or any equitable need for safety
arises.
   (6)   Juveniles may not possess fireworks unless under the direct
supervision of a responsible adult.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 5-28-2002)
§ 1002.18 FIREWORKS - OTHER.
   Materials which violate this subchapter or state statute and pose a threat
to public safety may be confiscated and destroyed. Costs associated with
disposal shall be assessed back to the property.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 5-28-2002)
§ 1002.19 PERMIT DENIAL, SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The Fire Chief or designee may suspend or revoke any permit granted herein
for a violation of any term of this subchapter. Any person whose permit has
been suspended or revoked or any person whose permit application has been
denied may request a review of that determination by the City Council. The
request for review shall be in writing and filed with the City Clerk. The City
Clerk shall place the review request on the agenda for the next regularly
scheduled Council meeting. Upon review, the City Council shall affirm or
overrule the initial determination to deny, suspend or revoke.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 5-28-2002)
§ 1002.20 VALIDITY.
   Should any section, sentence or word of this subchapter or code herein
adopted by declared for any reason to be invalid, it is the intent of the Lino
Lakes City Council that they would have passed all other portions of this
subchapter independent of any section as may be declared invalid.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 5-28-2002)
§ 1002.21 PENALTIES.
   Violations of these fire rules are misdemeanor offenses requiring a court
appearance and punishable by fines up to $1,000 and/or 90 days in jail.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 5-28-2002)
CHAPTER 1003: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
1003.01   Codes adopted by reference
   
1003.02   Application, administration and enforcement
   
1003.03   Permits and fees
   
1003.04   Violations and penalties
   
1003.05   Building Code optional chapters
   
1003.06   Ordinance self-perpetuating
   
1003.07   Repeals
§ 1003.01 CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (1)   The Minnesota State Building Code, as adopted by the Commissioner of
Labor and Industry pursuant to M.S. Ch. 326.59 to 326.75, including all of the
amendments, rules and regulations established, adopted and published from time
to time by the Minnesota Commissioner of Labor and Industry, through the
Building Codes and Standards Unit, is hereby adopted by reference with the
exception of the optional chapters, unless specifically adopted in this
chapter.
   (2)   The Minnesota State Building Code is hereby incorporated in this
chapter as if fully set out herein.
(Ord. 09-07, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 1003.02 APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (1)   The application, administration and enforcement of the code shall be
in accordance with Minnesota State Building Code. The code shall be enforced
within the extraterritorial limits permitted by M.S. § 326.62, Subd. 1, as it
may be amended from time to time, when so established by this chapter.
   (2)   The code enforcement agency of this municipality is called the City of
Lino Lakes.
   (3)   This code shall be enforced by the Minnesota Certified Building
Official designated by this municipality to administer the code, M.S. § 326.65,
Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 09-07, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 1003.03 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (1)   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as
authorized in M.S. § 326.62, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (2)   Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in
accordance with the city’s adopted fee schedule.
   (3)   In addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued
for work governed by this code in accordance with M.S. § 326.70, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 09-07, passed 8-27-2007)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1003.04 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   A violation of this code is a misdemeanor (M.S. § 326.69).
§ 1003.05 BUILDING CODE OPTIONAL CHAPTERS.
   (1)   The Minnesota State Building Code, established pursuant to M.S. §§
326.59 to 326.75, as they may be amended from time to time, allows the
municipality to adopt by reference and enforce certain optional chapters of the
most current edition of the Minnesota State Building Code.
   (2)   The following optional provisions identified in the most current
edition of the State Building Code are hereby adopted and incorporated as part
of the building code for this municipality: 1306, Special Fire Protection
Systems including Option 1306.0020, Subpart 2;
(Ord. 09-07, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 1003.06 ORDINANCE SELF-PERPETUATING.
   This ordinance shall perpetually include the most current edition of the
Minnesota State Building Code.
(Ord. 09-07, passed 8-27-2007)
§ 1003.07 REPEALS.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances that conflict therewith are hereby
repealed.
(Ord. 09-07, passed 8-27-2007)
CHAPTER 1004: RESTRICTIVE SOILS
Section
   
1004.01   Legislative findings and purpose
   
1004.02   District boundaries
   
1004.03   Definitions
   
1004.04   Restrictive soils permit
   
1004.05   Exceptions
   
1004.06   Application for and processing of permit
   
1004.07   Permit standards
   
1004.08   Special conditions
   
1004.09   Time of permit – extensions; renewals
   
1004.10   Responsibility
   
1004.11   Variance
   
1004.12   Soil types
§ 1004.01 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (1)   Findings. The city finds that areas within the city are characterized
by certain soil types, slopes and water levels which, without proper corrective
action, are unsuitable for development. Inappropriate development in these
areas increases soil erosion and sedimentation, the introduction of toxic
materials into ground water encourages pollution, destroys ecological and
natural resources and requires expenditures of public funds to correct
deficiencies; thereby acting to the detriment of the health, safety and welfare
of the citizens of the city.
   (2)   Purpose. To provide for the regulation of development on restrictive
soils in a way as to minimize the risk of environmental damage and to protect
private homeowners and governmental units from incurring high maintenance and
capital costs resulting from the necessity to correct deficiencies encountered
as a result of development on poorly suited soils.
(Prior Code, § 1004.01)
§ 1004.02 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   This chapter shall apply to restrictive soils types as described and defined
in §
1004.12 herein, and which soils districts are as a guideline specifically
delineated on the official Soil Resource Guide of the city prepared by the
Anoka Soil and Water Conservation District. For purposes of determining the
application of this chapter to any particular parcel of land, the Soil Resource
Guide shall be on file in the office of the city engineer and shall be
available for inspection and copying during regular office hours of the city
engineer; however, a reasonable fee for copies made by the City Clerk shall be
charged, which fee shall be set by the Council by resolution from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1004.02)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1004.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPMENT. The construction, installation or alteration of any structure,
the extraction, clearing or other alteration of terrestrial aquatic vegetation,
land or the course current or cross section of any water body or water course
or the division of land into two or more parcels.
   DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENT. Minimum and maximum setbacks, yard requirements or
structure height or size restrictions established in Zoning Chapter, and any
amendments thereto.
   SOILS WITH HIGH FROST ACTION POTENTIAL. Soils which are susceptible to
changes in volume during periods of frost, including those soils listed at §
1004.12 hereof.
   SOILS WITH HIGH SHRINK SWELL POTENTIAL. Soils which are susceptible to
changes in physical volume when moistened, including those soils listed at §
1004.12 hereof.
   SOILS WITH HIGH SIDE SEEPAGE POTENTIAL. Soils of the fragipan nature,
including those soils listed at §
1004.12 hereof.
   SOILS WITH SLOW PERMEABILITY. Soils which have a permeability rate between
60 and 120 minutes per inch, including those listed at §
1004.12 hereof.
   SOILS WITH VERY SLOW PERMEABILITY. Soils which have a permeability rate
below 120 minutes per inch, including those listed at §
1004.12 hereof.
   STEEP SLOPES. Slopes between 12 and 18%, including all soils grouped in
Anoka County Soil Survey Slope Class C.
   STRUCTURE. Anything manufactured, constructed or erected which is normally
attached to or positioned on land, including portable structures.
   VERY STEEP SLOPES. Slopes of over 18%, including all soils grouped in Anoka
County Soil Survey Slope Classes D, E, F.
   VERY WET SOILS. Soils located where the water table is permanently or
seasonably three feet or less from the ground surface, including those listed
at §
1004.12 hereof.
   WET SOILS. Soils located where the water table is permanently or seasonably
three to five feet from the ground surface, including those listed at §
1004.12 hereof.
(Prior Code, § 1004.03)
§ 1004.04 RESTRICTIVE SOILS PERMIT.
   (1)   Permit required. Except as hereinafter provided in this chapter, no
person shall perform any development in a very severe limitation soils district
without first having obtained a restrictive soils permit (hereinafter called
permit) from the city.
   (2)   Soil borings. The person performing the development shall present soil
borings, percolation test and depth to water table determination by a
professional engineer, registered in the State of Minnesota and knowledgeable
in soils and soil mechanics for review and recommendations of special
provisions to overcome soil limitations. Any other qualified person or firm
knowledgeable with State of Minnesota, Department of Health Codes and/or
regulations regarding percolation data and depth of water table may perform the
tests. The engineer or person or firm so qualified shall prepare his, her or
its findings and recommendations in writing, which shall be submitted by the
applicant to the city engineer. The results of the tests required by this
division shall be recorded upon forms to be approved by the Council, which
forms shall be supplied by the city engineer and when completed, the forms
shall be filed with the city engineer.
(Prior Code, § 1004.04)
§ 1004.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The permit requirements established by this chapter shall not apply to:
   (1)   Emergency work necessary to preserve life or property. When emergency
work is performed under this section, the person performing it shall report the
pertinent facts relating to the work to the engineer (or city building
inspector) prior to the commencement of the work. The city engineer or building
inspector shall review the facts and determine whether or not an emergency
exists and shall, by written memorandum, authorize the commencement of the
emergency exception. The person commencing emergency work shall, within ten
days following the commencement of that activity, apply for the issuance of a
restrictive soils development permit and on the issuance thereof may be
required to perform the work as is determined to be reasonably necessary to
fulfill the purposes of this chapter; and
   (2)   Development. Development consisting of the corrective alteration,
repair or maintenance of any lawful use of land existing on the date of
adoption of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1004.05)
§ 1004.06 APPLICATION FOR AND PROCESSING OF PERMIT.
   (1)   Separate applications. A separate application for a permit shall be
made to the city for each development for which a permit is required except
that only one application need be made for two or more acts which are to be
done contemporaneously on the same parcel. The application shall include a map
of the site and delineation of the soils found in the site along with a plan
and cost estimate of the proposed development and any other engineering data
surveys and other information and material as the city may require in order to
determine the effects of the development on the affected land and the
suitability of the soils for the development. When proposed development
includes construction or alterations of structures, two sets of plans and
specifications for the work shall be submitted with the application along with
detailed drawings of any special foundation structures and/or special
provisions for onsite sewage disposal.
   (2)   Processing. The permit application shall be processed in accordance
with the procedures specified for the processing of conditional use permits as
set forth in the Zoning Code and the permit may be processed at the same time
and in connection with an application for a building permit or any other
required permit to be granted by this code or any ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1004.06)
§ 1004.07 PERMIT STANDARDS.
   (1)   Standards. No permit shall be issued unless the city finds and
determines that the proposed development complies with the following
requirements.
      (a)   No on-site sewage disposal systems shall be permitted on very wet
soils, soils with very slow permeability unless the permit applicant proves
that a conventional soil system will be successfully modified, installed and
maintained that the restrictive conditions will be overcome.
      (b)   No commercial or industrial development shall be permitted on very
steep slopes.
      (c)   No residential development shall be permitted on very wet soils,
soils with high shrink-swell or frost potential or very steep slope unless the
applicant proves the construction techniques capable of overcoming the
restrictive condition will be utilized.
      (d)   Industrial uses requiring the bulk storage of chemicals will not be
allowed on very wet soils.
   (2)   Certification. The certification of plans and specifications as
adequate to overcome the restrictive condition(s) by a professional engineer,
registered in the State of Minnesota and experienced and knowledgeable in soils
and soils mechanics shall be required as evidence with regard to the city and
the applicant's meeting of requirements divisions (1)(a) and (1)(c) above.
(Prior Code, § 1004.07)
§ 1004.08 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   (1)   A permit may be approved subject to compliance with reasonable
conditions which are specifically set forth in the permit and are necessary to
ensure compliance with the requirements contained in this chapter. Each
condition may, among other matters, limit the size, kind or character of the
proposed development, require the construction of other structures, including
special foundations and soil stabilization structures, establish required
monitoring procedures, require alterations of the site as may be necessary,
require the provision of a performance bond and/or require the conveyance to
the city or other public entity of certain lands or interest therein.
   (2)   The dimensional and area requirements of the underlying restrictive
soils types and soil district(s) may be modified in furtherance of the purposes
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1004.08)
§ 1004.09 TIME OF PERMIT - EXTENSIONS; RENEWALS.
   All timing, extensions and renewals are to be consistent with the building
permit procedures.
(Prior Code, § 1004.09)
§ 1004.10 RESPONSIBILITY.
   Neither the issuance of a permit nor compliance with the conditions thereof,
nor with the provisions of this chapter shall relieve any person from any
responsibility otherwise imposed by law for damage to persons or property; nor
shall the issuance of any permit hereunder serve to impose any liability on the
city or its officers or employees for injury or damage to persons or property.
A permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall not relieve the permittee of the
responsibility in complying with any other requirements established by law,
ordinance or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 1004.10)
§ 1004.11 VARIANCE.
   The Council may authorize in specific cases following appeal and hearing a
variance from the provisions of this chapter would result in a substantial
inequitable hardship to an applicant property owner. In assessing hardship, the
Council shall balance the severity of the physical, social and economic effects
of the literal application against the interests of the city in effecting the
purposes of this chapter as expressed above. Economic considerations alone
shall not constitute a hardship if a reasonable use for the property exists
under the terms of this chapter. No variance may be granted which would allow
any use that is prohibited in the zoning district in which the subject property
is located. A variance shall be granted in writing accompanied by specific
findings of fact as to the necessity for the granting of the variance and its
specific provisions.
(Prior Code, § 1004.11)
§ 1004.12 SOIL TYPES.
   (1)   Soils with very severe limitations.
      (a)   Very wet soils.
1964 Photo Base 1971 Photo Base Name
1964 Photo Base 1971 Photo Base Name
20              Af              Mixed Alluvial Land Flash Flooded
53              Mc              Marsh
75              Lg              Loamy wetland
540             Se              Seeleyville muck
541             Rf              Rifle mucky peat
543             Ma              Markey muck
544             Cb              Cathro muck
545             Ru              Rondeau muck
551             Mk              Millerville mucky peat
161             Iw              Isanti fine sandy loam
 
      (b)   Very slow permeability.
 
1964 Photo Base 1971 Photo Base Name
551             Mk              Millerville mucky peat
 
      (c)   Soils with high shrink-swell potential.
 
1964 Photo Base 1971 Photo Base Name
540             Se              Seeleyville muck
541             Rf              Rifle mucky peat
545             Ru              Rondeau muck
551             Mk              Millerville mucky peat
 
      (d)   Soils with high frost action potential.
 
1964 Photo Base 1971 Photo Base Name
53              Mc              Marsh
540             Se              Seeleyville muck
541             Mk              Millerville mucky peat
543             Ma              Markey muck
545             Ru              Rondeau muck
551             Mk              Millerville mucky peat
 
      (e)   Very steep slopes. All soils grouped in the Anoka County Soil
Survey in the slope classes D, E and F.
   (2)   Soils with marginal limitations.
      (a)   Wet soils.
1972 Classification 1975 Classification Name
1972 Classification 1975 Classification Name
85                  Lb                  Lake beach
113                 Wb                  Webster loam
114                 Gc                  Glencoe loam
123                 Du                  Dundus loam
161H                Kr                  Kratka loamy fine sand
162                 Ln                  Lino loamy fine sand
170                 Bm                  Blomford loamy fine sand
185                 Lb                  Lake beaches loamy
224                 No                  Nowem sandy loam
 
      (b)   Slow permeability.
 
1972 Classification 1975 Classification Name
113                 Wb                  Webster loam
123                 Du                  Dundus loam
152                 Km                  Kingsley fine sandy loam
 
      (c)   Soils with high frost action potential.
 
1972 Classification 1975 Classification Name
544                 Cb                  Cathro muck
 
      (d)   Soils with high side seepage potential.
 
1972 Classification 1975 Classification Name
152                 Km                  Kingsley fine sandy loam
170                 Bm                  Blomford loamy sand
179                 Lg                  Langola loamy sand
 
      (e)   Steep slopes. All soils grouped in the Anoka County Soil Survey in
slope class C.
(Prior Code, § 1004.12)
CHAPTER 1005: RESERVED
CHAPTER 1006: BUILDING NUMBER
Section
   
1006.01   Building numbers required
   
1006.02   Alternative display
   
1006.03   City action
§ 1006.01 BUILDING NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessor or occupant of every house,
industrial, commercial or other building to have proper house or building
numbers either by affixing to the building the numbers in metal, glass, plastic
or other durable material. The numbers shall not be less than four inches in
height, in a contrasting color to the base. The numbers shall either be lighted
or made of some reflective materials and so placed to be easily seen from the
street.
(Prior Code, § 1006.01)
§ 1006.02 ALTERNATIVE DISPLAY.
   In those cases where the principal building is obscured from view from the
street of address by accessory buildings, trees, shrubbery or other visual
obstruction, the numbers shall be displayed from a permanent mounting on the
property so that they are clearly visible from the street of address.
(Prior Code, § 1006.02)
§ 1006.03 CITY ACTION. 
   Upon the failure of any owner or occupant to properly display an assigned
number in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and after ten days
notice of the violation by city officials, the city may cause the installation
of the assigned number and, in that case, the Council shall charge the
reasonable cost of the installation against the property to be collected in
accordance with the city's normal billing procedures.
(Prior Code, § 1006.03)
CHAPTER 1007: ZONING CODE
Section
Title / Application / Rules
   
1007.000   Title and application
   
1007.001   Rules and definitions
Administration
   
1007.015   Amendments: text and map
   
1007.016   Conditional use permits
   
1007.017   Interim use permits
   
1007.018   Variances and appeals
   
1007.019   Administration: administrative permits and approvals
   
1007.020   Site and building plan review
   
1007.021   Duties of city staff
   
1007.022   Certificate of occupancy
   
1007.023   Enforcement and penalties
   
1007.024   Planned unit development (PUD)
   
1007.025   Environmental review
General Provisions
   
1007.040   Purpose
   
1007.041   Non-conforming uses and structures
   
1007.042   General parcel, lot and yard provisions
   
1007.043   General building and use provisions
   
1007.044   Accessory buildings, structures and uses
   
1007.045   Refuse and recycling
   
1007.046   Outdoor lighting
   
1007.047   Environmental provisions
   
1007.048   Outdoor storage
   
1007.049   Screening, landscaping, buffer yards and tree preservation
   
1007.050   Fences and retaining walls
   
1007.051   Submission of permit and site plan
   
1007.052   Off-street parking
   
1007.053   Off-street loading spaces
   
1007.054   Private streets
   
1007.055   Relocated structures
   
1007.056   Home occupation permits
   
1007.057   Accessory apartments
   
1007.058   Drainage
   
1007.059   Earth moving and land reclamation
   
1007.060   Farming operations
   
1007.061   Adult uses
   
1007.062   Antennas
   
1007.063   Accessory outdoor dining areas
   
1007.064   Batch plants
   
1007.065   Opt out of Minn. Stat. 462.3593
   
1007.066   Commercial stables
   
1007.067   Agritourism
   
1007.068   Wind energy conversion system (WECS)
   
1007.069   Solar energy systems
   
1007.070   Model homes with temporary real estate offices
   
1007.071   Temporary structures
   
1007.072   Motor fuel stations
   
1007.073   Air park hangar and access performance standards
   
1007.074   Rural cluster development
District Provisions
   
1007.090   General zoning district provisions
Rural Districts
   
1007.100   R, Rural District
   
1007.101   R-X, Rural Executive District
Residential Districts
   
1007.110   R-1, Single Family Residential District
   
1007.111   R-1X, Single Family Executive Residential District
   
1007.112   R-2, Two Family Residential District
   
1007.113   R-3, Medium Density Residential district
   
1007.114   R-4, High Density Residential District
   
1007.115   R-5, High Density Residential and Business District
   
1007.116   R-6, Manufactured Home Park District
Business Districts
   
1007.130   NB, Neighborhood Business District
   
1007.131   LB, Limited Business District
   
1007.132   GB, General Business District
Industrial Districts
   
1007.140   LI, Light Industrial District
   
1007.141   GI, General Industrial District
   
1007.142   BC, Business Campus District
Special Districts
   
1007.150   PSP, Public and Semi-Public District
   
1007.151   PUD, Planned Unit Development District
   
Appendix A:   Legislative History
   
Appendix B:   Zoning Map of Lino Lakes
Editor’s note: The organization of Chapter 1007 was ratified by Ord. 03-24.
TITLE / APPLICATION / RULES
§ 1007.000 TITLE AND APPLICATION.
   (1)   Title. This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Lino
Lakes Zoning Ordinance” except as referred to herein, where it shall be known
as “this chapter.”
   (2)   Intent and purpose. This chapter is adopted for the purpose of:
      (a)   Protecting the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and
general welfare.
      (b)   Dividing the City of Lino Lakes into zones and districts
restricting and regulating therein the location and use of structures and land
and lot size.
      (c)   Promoting orderly development of the residential, business,
industrial, recreational and public areas.
      (d)   Providing adequate light, air, and convenience of access to
property.
      (e)   Limiting congestion in the public right-of-way.
      (f)   Preventing overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures by regulating the use of land and buildings in relation to the land
and buildings surrounding.
      (g)   Providing for the compatibility of different land uses and the most
appropriate use of land throughout the City of Lino Lakes.
      (h)   Protecting and guiding the development of the rural area.
      (i)   Conserving and developing natural resources.
      (j)   Fostering agriculture and other industries.
      (k)   Preventing a wasteful scattering of population.
      (l)   Securing safety from flood.
      (m)   Reducing waste and municipal maintenance cost from excessive
mileage of roads.
      (n)   Conserving the natural and scenic beauty and attractiveness of road
sides and lakeshores.
      (o)   Providing for the administration of this chapter and amendments to
the chapter.
      (p)   Defining the powers and duties of the administrative officers and
bodies, as provided hereinafter.
   (3)   Application.
      (a)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety, and welfare.
      (b)   Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this chapter are
either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed
by any other law ordinance, statute, resolution, or regulation, the regulations
which are more restrictive, or which impose higher standards or requirements
shall prevail.
      (c)   Except as in this chapter specifically provided, no structure shall
be constructed, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or altered, and no structure
or land shall be used for any purpose nor in any manner which is not in
conformity with this chapter.
      (d)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter
shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
   (4)   Relation to Comprehensive Municipal Plan. It is the policy of the City
of Lino Lakes that the enforcement, amendment, and administration of this
chapter be accomplished with due consideration of the recommendations contained
in the City Comprehensive Plan as developed and amended from time to time by
the Planning and Zoning Board and City Council. The Council recognizes the
Comprehensive Plan as the policy for responsibility to regulate land use and
development in accordance with the policies and purpose herein set forth.
   (5)   Uses not provided for within zoning districts. 
      (a)   In any zoning district, whenever a proposed use is neither
specifically allowed nor denied, the City Council shall determine if the
proposed use is comparable in potential activities and impacts to a use listed
within the zoning district and is acceptable related to land use compatibility,
traffic, and/or nuisance issues and established conditions and standards
relating to development of the use. Where such a determination is made, the
requirements established for the listed use shall apply as minimum standards
for the proposed use. Additional requirements may be applied to address
differences between the listed use and the proposed use.
      (b)   In such cases where, in the judgment of the City Council, there is
no comparable use listed, the City Council or Planning and Zoning Board, on
their own initiative or upon request from the property owner, may conduct a
study to determine if the proposed use is acceptable and, if so, what zoning
district would be most appropriate and what conditions and standards should
apply to the proposed use. The City Council, Planning and Zoning Board, or
property owner, on receipt of the staff study, may initiate an amendment to the
Zoning Ordinance consistent with §
1007.015 of this chapter to provide for the particular use under consideration
or shall find that the proposed use is not compatible for development within
the city.
   (6)   Separability. It is hereby declared to be the intention that the
several provisions of this chapter are separable in accordance with the
following:
      (a)   If any court or competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision
of this chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other
provision of this chapter not specifically included in such judgment.
      (b)   If any court or competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this ordinance to a particular property,
building, or structure, such judgment shall not affect other property,
buildings or structures.
   (7)   Authority. This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted
by the Municipal Planning Act, M.S. § 462.351 to § 462.363.
   (8)   Fees. No application for a Zoning Ordinance amendment, rezoning,
conditional use permit, interim use permit, variance, administrative permit, or
site and building plan review shall be accepted or considered by the City
Council or any other body of the city unless such application is complete and
accompanied by a deposit. The total fee for processing such application, which
shall be paid by the petitioner to the city, shall be paid whether or not such
application is approved or denied. The deposit shall be used to cover the total
out of pocket expenses incurred by the city in processing such application, for
such necessary items as, but not limited to, attorney's, planner's, and/or
engineer's fees and costs, and any other costs incident thereto, and shall be
in addition to a fee for the city staff services, to be paid to the city, which
separate fees and deposits shall be established by City Council ordinance/
resolution.
      (a)   The deposit shall not be considered as the total amount to be paid.
The total amount shall be the actual amount expended plus the fee for the city
staff services.
      (b)   Any unused portion of the required deposits will be returned to the
petitioner. The fees established herein may be changed by the City Council from
time to time, by resolution or ordinance, as appropriate. A copy of said
resolution or ordinance shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk and
available for inspection during regular city office hours.
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1007.001 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 02-25, adopted 3-10-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   (1)   Rules. The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be
interpreted in accordance with the following rules of construction:
      (a)   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the
singular.
      (b)   The present tense includes the past and the future tenses, and the
future the present.
      (c)   The words “shall” and “must”are mandatory while the word “may” is
permissive.
      (d)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
      (e)   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
this chapter, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in such definition
thereof, or its commonly used definition by the Merriam-Webster dictionary.
      (f)   In the event of conflicting provisions, the more restrictive shall
apply.
      (g)   All measured distances expressed in feet shall be to the nearest
tenth of a foot.
      (h)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirement for the promotion of
health, safety, and welfare.
   (2)   Definitions. The following words and terms, wherever they occur in
this chapter shall be interpreted as herein defined:
   ACCESSORY APARTMENT. A secondary dwelling unit established in conjunction
with and clearly subordinate to a primary dwelling unit, whether a part of the
same structure as the primary dwelling unit or a detached dwelling unit on the
same lot.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING.  A portion of the principal building or a detached
structure on the same lot which is used for an accessory use.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.  A structure detached from a principal building located
on the same lot and customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
building or use.
   ACCESSORY USE.  A use of land or of a building or portion thereof
customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the land or
building and located on the same lot with such principal use.
   ADDITION. A physical enlargement of an existing structure.
   ADJOINING/ABUTTING LOT OR LAND.  A lot or parcel of land which shares all or
part of a common lot line with another lot or parcel of land.
   ADULT USE RELATED TERMS.
      (a)   ADULT USES.  Adult uses include adult bookstores, adult motion
picture theaters, adult massage parlors, adult steam room/boathouse/sauna
facilities, adult companionship establishments, adult rap/conversation parlors,
adult health/sport clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty businesses, adult
motion picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotels/motels, adult body
painting studios, and other premises, enterprises, establishments, businesses
or places open to some or all members of the public, at or in which there is an
emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction or description of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” which are capable of being
seen by members of the public. Activities classified as obscene as defined by
M.S. § 617.241 are not included.
         1.   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS:
            a.   Less than completely opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock anus, or female breast(s) below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; and
            b.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
         2.   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES:
            a.   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral- anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following: sexually-oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty; or
            b.   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation, arousal or tumescence; or
            c.   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus, or masturbation; or
            d.   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breast; or
            e.   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are
nude, clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are
engaged in activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding
or other physical restraint of any such persons; or
            f.   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually-oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
            g.   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
      (b)   ADULT USE - ACCESSORY. The offering of retail goods for sale which
are classified as adult uses on a limited scale and which are incidental to the
primary activity and goods and/or services offered by the establishment.
Examples of such items include the sale of adult magazines, the sale and/or
rental of adult motion pictures, the sale of adult novelties, and the like.
      (c)   ADULT USES - PRINCIPAL.  The offering of goods and/or services
which are classified as adult uses as a primary or sole activity of a business
or establishment and include but are not limited to the following:
         1.   ADULT USE - BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business
which provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether
transparent or non-transparent, to or on the body of a patron when such body is
wholly or partially nude in terms of “specified anatomical areas.”
         2.   ADULT USE - BOOKSTORE. A building or portion of a building used
for barter, rental or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures,
slides, records, audio tape, videotape, compact discs, computer software,
digital recordings, motion picture film, or other communication mediums if such
building or portion of a building is not open to the public generally but only
to one or more classes of the public excluding any minor by reason of age or if
a substantial or significant portion of such items are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
         3.   ADULT USE - CABARET.  A building or portion of a building used
for providing dancing or other live entertainment, if such building or portion
of a building excludes minors by virtue of age or if such dancing or other live
entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
         4.   ADULT USE - COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT.  A companionship
establishment which excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the
service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or discussion between
an employee of the establishment and a customer, if such service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas.”
         5.   ADULT USE - CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR.  A conversation/rap parlor
which excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of
engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion, if such service
is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
         6.   ADULT USE - HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club which excludes
minors by reason of age, or if such club is distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
         7.   ADULT USE - HOTEL OR MOTEL. Adult hotel or motel means a hotel or
motel from which minors are specifically excluded from patronage and wherein
material is presented which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas.”
         8.   ADULT USE - MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or
health club which restricts minors by reason of age, and which provides the
services of massage, if such service is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
         9.   ADULT USE - MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of
a building with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting
material if such building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice
excludes minors by virtue of age, or if such material is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas” for observation by patrons therein.
         10.   ADULT USE - MODELING STUDIO.  An establishment whose major
business is the provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided
with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such
customers and who engage in “specified sexual activities” or display “specified
anatomical areas” while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed, or otherwise depicted by such customers.
         11.   ADULT USE - MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public
is permitted or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motor picture
machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show
images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas.”
         12.   ADULT USE - MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a
building with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material if
such building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors
by virtue of age or if such material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on “specified anatomical areas” for observation by patrons therein.
         13.   ADULT USE - NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has as a
principal activity the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or
devices which are designed for sexual stimulation.
         14.   ADULT USE - SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of
age, or which provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose
of bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning,
relaxing or reducing agent, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas.”
         15.   ADULT USE - STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or a
portion of a building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used
for the purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam
or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if such building or
portion of a building restricts minors by reason of age or if the service
provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas.”
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING.  An accessory building designed, constructed, or used
to house farm implements or agriculture products on agricultural lands as
defined by M.S. § 273.12 and § 273.23, as amended. A Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency Permit may be required.
   AGRICULTURE.  The use of land for the production, keeping or maintenance,
sale, or personal use, of plants and animals useful to man, including but not
limited to: forages and sod crops; grains and seed crops; dairy animals and
dairy products; poultry and poultry products; livestock, including beef cattle,
sheep, swine, horses, ponies, mules, or goats, or any mutations or hybrids
thereof, including the breeding and grazing of any or all of such animals; bees
and apiary products; fruits of all kinds, including grapes, nuts and berries;
vegetables; nursery, floral, ornamental and greenhouse products; or lands
devoted to a soil conservation or forestry management program. Agricultural
land uses do not include slaughterhouses or the processing of crops, produce,
animals for public purchase or consumption as to constitute a commercial or
industrial land use.
   AGRITOURISM. Includes any commercial enterprise that links agricultural
production and/or processing with tourism in order to attract visitors onto a
farm, ranch, or other agricultural business for the purposes of entertaining
and/or educating.
   AIRPORT.  A place where aircraft can land and take off, usually equipped
with hangars, facilities for refueling and repair, and various accommodations
for passengers.
   AIRPORT, PRIVATE USE.  Airports which are intended for use by certain
individuals or associations and not to the public.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which provides a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measure used to compare differences in the production
of animal manure that employs as a standard the amount of manure produced on a
regular basis by a slaughter steer or heifer for an animal feedlot or a manure
storage area, calculated by multiplying the number of animals of each type by
the respective multiplication factor and summing the resulting values for the
total number of animal units. For purposes of this chapter, the following
multiplication factors shall apply. For animals not listed, the number of
animal units is the average weight of the animal in pounds divided by 1,000
pounds.
Animal Animal Unit
Animal                               Animal Unit
Dairy Cattle
   Mature Cow (1,000 pounds or ove1.4
   Mature Cow (Under 1,000 pounds)1.0
   Heifer                         0.7
   Calf                           0.2
Beef Cattle
   Slaughter Steer or Stock Cow   1.0
   Feeder Cattle or Heifer        0.7
   Cow and Calf Pair              1.2
   Calf                           0.2
Swine
   Over 300 pounds                0.4
Swine
   Between 55 and 300 pounds      0.3
   Under 55 pounds                0.05
Horse                                1.0
Sheep or Lamb                        0.1
Chicken (Liquid Manure System)       0.0333
Chicken (Dry Manure System)
   5 pounds or over               0.005
   Less than 5 pounds             0.003
Turkey
   5 pounds or over               0.018
   Less than 5 pounds             0.005
Duck                                 0.01
 
   ANIMALS, DOMESTIC.  Any animal commonly accepted as a domesticated household
pet. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include dogs; cats; caged
birds including pigeons; gerbils; hamsters; guinea pigs; domesticated rabbits;
fish; non-poisonous, non-venomous, and nonconstricting reptiles or amphibians;
and other similar animals.
   ANIMALS, FARM. Any animal commonly associated with a farm or performing work
in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall
include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine family (cows,
bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese), swine
(excluding Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, and other animals
associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
   ANTENNA RELATED.
      (a)   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE.   A device consisting of a metal,
carbon, fiber, or other electromagnetically conducive rods or elements on a
single supporting pole or other structure, and used for the transmission and
reception of wireless communications including cellular, personal communication
services (PCS), enhanced specialized mobilized radio (ESMR), paging and similar
services.
      (b)   PUBLIC OR COMMERCIAL RADIO AND TELEVISION, BROADCAST TRANSMITTING.
A wire, set of wires, metal or carbon fiber rod or other electromagnetic
element used to transmit public or commercial broadcast radio, or television
programming and including the support structure thereof.
      (c)   PUBLIC UTILITY MICROWAVE. A parabolic dish or cornucopia shaped
electromagnetically reflective or conductive element used for the transmission
and/or reception of point to point UHF or VHF radio waves in wireless telephone
communications, and including the support structure thereof.
      (d)   RADIO AND TELEVISION RECEIVING.  A wire, set of wires, metal or
carbon fiber element(s) other than satellite dish antennas, used to receive
radio, television, or electromagnetic waves, and including the support
structure thereof.
      (e)   SATELLITE DISH.  A device incorporating a reflective surface that
is solid, open mesh, or bar configured and is in the shape of a shallow dish,
cone, horn, or cornucopia. Such device shall be used to transmit and/or receive
radio or electromagnetic waves between terrestrially and/or orbitally based
uses. This definition shall include, but not be limited to, what are commonly
referred to as satellite earth stations, TVROs (television receive only) and
satellite microwave antennas and support structure thereof.
      (f)   SATELLITE DISH HEIGHT.  The height of the antenna or dish measured
vertically from the highest point of the antenna or dish when positioned for
operation, to the top of the foundation which supports the antenna.
      (g)   SHORT-WAVE RADIO TRANSMITTING AND RECEIVING. - A wire, set of wires
or a device, consisting of a metal, carbon fiber, or other electromagnetically
conductive element used for the transmission and reception of radio waves used
for short-wave and citizen band radio communications, and including the
supporting structure thereof.
      (h)   SECONDARY USE.  A use of land or of a building or a portion thereof
which is subordinate to and does not constitute the primary use of the land or
building.
      (i)   STRUCTURE, PUBLIC.  An edifice or building of any kind, or any
piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in
some definite manner which is owned or rented, and operated by a federal,
state, or local government agency.
      (j)   SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any building or other structure other than a
tower which can be used for location of antennas.
      (k)   TOWER. Any ground mounted pole, spire, structure, or combination
thereof, including supporting lines, cables, wires, braces, masts, intended
primarily for the purpose of mounting an antenna or similar apparatus above
grade.
      (l)   TOWER, TEMPORARY MOBILE.  Any mobile tower, pole, or structure
located on a trailer, vehicle, or temporary platform intended primarily for the
purpose of mounting an antenna or similar apparatus for personal wireless
services, which is commonly referred to as Cellular on Wheels (COW).
   APARTMENT.  A room or suite of rooms which is designed for, intended for, or
used as a residence by a single family or an individual, and is equipped with
cooking facilities. Includes dwelling unit and efficiency unit.
   APPLICANT.  The person(s) whose name(s) are on an application as owner,
their agent or person having legal control, ownership and/or interest in land
for which the provisions of this chapter are being considered or reviewed.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A facility that provides sleeping accommodations
to one or more adult residents, and offering or providing, for a fee, one or
more regularly scheduled health-related services or two or more regularly
scheduled supportive services, whether offered or provided directly by the
establishment or by another entity arranged for the establishment, as defined
in M.S. §144G.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR-MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning
engines, motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame
or fender straightening or repair; overall painting or paint job; vehicle steam
cleaning.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR-MINOR. An establishment providing goods or services
related to passenger motor vehicles such as car washes; repair businesses
limited to minor engine repair, fluid changing, tire service and muffler
repair; and other uses of similar character, but not including uses defined as
a major automobile business or automobile sales.
   AUTOMOBILE SALES.  The use of any building or land area for the display and
sale of new or used passenger motor vehicles, motorcycles, trucks, vans,
trailers or recreational vehicles including any major or minor automobile
repair or service uses conducted as an accessory use.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.  Any building, land area or other premises, or
portion thereof, used or intended to be used for the retail dispensing or sales
of vehicular fuels; and including as an accessory use the sale and installation
of lubricants, tires, batteries, and similar accessories.
   BASE MAP. A map having sufficient points of reference, such as state, county
or municipal boundary lines, streets, easements, and other selected physical
features to allow the plotting of other data.
   BASEMENT.  That portion of a building between floor and ceiling, which is
partly below and partly above grade, but so located that the vertical distance
from grade to the floor below is more than the vertical distance from grade to
ceiling for more than 50% of its perimeter.
   BATCH PLANT.  A temporary facility/device that produces or processes
concrete or asphalt for a specified construction project over a defined period
of time.
   BAY.  A part of a building projecting or cantilevered from the main part.
   BEVERAGE PRODUCTION AND BOTTLING.  A facility for the production and
bottling of beverages including but not limited to soft drinks, milk, beer,
wine, spirits, etc., but not including hazardous or toxic materials.
   BOARDER.  An individual other than a member of the family occupying the
dwelling unit or a part thereof who, for a consideration, is furnished sleeping
accommodations and may be furnished meals or other services as part of the
consideration.
   BOARDING HOUSE.  A building other than a hotel or motel where, for
compensation and by pre-arrangement for definite periods, meals and/or lodging
are provided to three to ten, not of the principal family therein, and not to
anyone who may apply.
   BOATHOUSE.  A structure used solely for the storage of boats or boating
equipment.
   BREW PUB.  A restaurant that conducts the retail sale of malt liquor brewed
on the premise and licensed under M.S. § 340A.24. Areas used exclusively for
brewing operations shall not exceed 25 percent of the total floor area.
Included within this use is the off-sale of malt liquor produced on site in
refillable growlers pursuant to M.S. § 340A.285.
   BREWER TAPROOM. Facility on the premises of, or adjacent to, a malt liquor
beverage production facility / brewery intended for the on-sale and consumption
of malt liquor produced by the brewer pursuant to M.S. § 340A.26. A BREWER
TAPROOM may include a restaurant.
   BUFFER.  The use of land, topography, difference in elevation, space, fences
or landscape plantings to screen or partially screen a use or property from
another use or property or to shield or mitigate noise, lights or other
impacts.
   BUFFER YARD.  A strip of land utilized to screen or partially screen a use
or property from another use or property or to shield or mitigate noise,
lights, or other impacts.
   BUILDABLE AREA.  The portion of a lot remaining after yards have been
provided.
   BUILDABLE LAND, CONTIGUOUS.  Land area occurring within the lot lines of a
parcel or lot excluding wetlands and/or water bodies and not separated by those
wetlands and/or waterbodies.
   BUILDING.  Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods or materials of any kind or nature.
   BUILDING COVERAGE.  The horizontal area measured within the outside of the
exterior walls and supporting columns of the ground floor of all principal and
accessory buildings on a lot.
   BUILDING HEIGHT.  The vertical distance above a reference datum measured to
the highest point of the coping of a flat roof to the deck line of a mansard
roof or to the average height of the highest gable of a pitched or hipped roof.
The height of a stepped or terraced building is the maximum height of any
segment of the building. The reference datum shall be selected by either of the
following, whichever yields a greater height of building:
      (a)   The elevation of the highest adjoining sidewalk or ground surface
within a five-foot horizontal distance of the exterior wall of the building
when such sidewalk or ground surface is not more than ten feet above lowest
grade.
      (b)   An elevation ten feet higher than the lowest grade when the
sidewalk or ground surface described in (a) above is more than ten feet above
lowest grade.
   BUILDING LINE.  A line parallel to a lot line, street right-of-way, street
easement, or the ordinary high water level at the required setback which
establishes the area within which the principal structure must be constructed
or located.
   BUILDING, POLE. Any structure possessing the following characteristics:
structural wood poles or timbers buried in ground without footings or with
individual footings; and metal wall coverings hung in a manner that the wall
coverings provide structural support for the wood frame. Such definition shall
not include or apply to decks, sign supports, earth retention structures,
playground equipment, electric utilities, or any other similar structure not
covering or enclosing a specific area.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is located.
   BUSINESS. Any establishment, occupation, employment or enterprise where
merchandise is manufactured, exhibited or sold or where services are offered
for compensation.
   CANOPY.  An accessory roof-like structure, which is either attached to or
detached from an allowable primary building; which is open on all sides, other
than where attached; and which is located over and designed to provide cover
for entrances, exits, walkways, and approved off-street motor vehicle service
areas.
   CARPORT.  A permanently constructed motor vehicle shelter having one or more
sides open.
   CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY. A land survey prepared by a land surveyor registered
in the State of Minnesota with a certification that the information on the land
survey is accurate.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct water either continuously or
periodically.
   CHURCH.  A building, together with its accessory buildings and use, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which building, together
with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship.
   CITY COUNCIL.  The governing body for the City of Lino Lakes.
   CLUB OR LODGE.  A non-profit association of persons who are members paying
annual dues, use of premises being restricted to members and their guests.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A form of residential development that groups buildings
or lots to provide common open space.
   COMMERCIAL USE.  The principal use of land or buildings for the sale, lease,
rental or trade of products, goods and services.
   COMMUNITY GARDEN.  A facility on public land for cultivation of fruits,
flowers, vegetables, or ornamental plants by more than one person or family.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.  A Comprehensive Plan prepared and approved by the city,
including a compilation of policy statements, goals, standards, fiscal
guidelines, and maps indicating the general locations recommended for the
various functional classes of land use, places and structures, and for the
general physical development of the city, including any unit or part of such
plan separately adopted and any amendment to such plan or parts thereof.
   CONDITIONAL USE.  A land use or development that may not be appropriate
generally within a certain district but may be allowed in that district with
appropriate restrictions, conditions or limitations as imposed by the City
Council.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the City Council in compliance
with the procedures specified within this chapter as a device to enable the
City Council to assign conditions to a proposed use or development after
consideration of the adjacent land uses and the special characteristics which
the proposed use presents.
   CONDOMINIUM. A multiple-family dwelling or development containing
individually owned dwelling units and jointly owned and shared areas and
facilities, which dwelling or development is subject to the provisions of the
Minnesota Condominium Law, M.S. § 515.01 through § 515.29.
   CONDOMINIUM ASSOCIATION. The community association that administers and
maintains the common property and common elements of a condominium.
   CONFERENCE CENTER.  A facility used for service organizations, business and
professional conferences, and seminars limited to accommodations for conference
attendees. The accommodations can include sleeping, eating, and recreation. A
conference center is not designed to be only utilized by the general public for
overnight purposes.
   CONSTRUCTION.  The erection, alteration or extension of a structure.
   COOPERATIVE HOUSING.  A multiple-family dwelling owned and maintained by the
residents and subject to the provisions of M.S. § 515B. The entire structure
and real property is under common ownership as contrasted to a condominium
dwelling where individual units are under separate individual occupant
ownership.
   CUL-DE-SAC.  (See STREET, CUL-DE-SAC)
   DATA CENTER. An establishment primarily involved in the compiling, storage,
and maintenance of documents, records, and other types of information in
digital form utilizing a mainframe computer. This term does not include general
business offices, computer-related sales establishments, and business or
personal services.
   DAY CARE FACILITY.  Any facility licensed by the State Department of Human
Services, public or private, which for gain or otherwise regularly provides one
or more persons with care, training, supervision, habilitation, rehabilitation
or developmental guidance on a regular basis, for periods of less than 24-hours
per day, in a place other than the person's own home. Day care facilities
include, but are not limited to, family day care homes, group family day care
homes, day care centers, day nurseries, nursery schools, daytime activity
centers, day treatment programs and day services, as defined by M.S. § 245A.02.
   DECK.  Horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises, or other features, attached or functionally related to a
principal use or site and at any point extending above grade.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per unit of land. In this chapter, net
density shall mean number of dwelling units per acre of contiguous buildable
land. Gross density shall mean number of units per acre of the total subject
property.
   DETACHED GARAGE.  A one-story accessory building used or intended for the
storage of driven passenger motor vehicles and motorcycles.
   DETACHED OUTDOOR LIVING AREA. A flat surfaced seasonal outdoor room intended
for casual human use which may be screened but may not have permanent
structural walls or be covered by a permanent roof.
   DEVELOPMENT.  The division of a parcel of land into two or more parcels; the
construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation or
enlargement of any structure; any mining, excavation, landfill or land
disturbance; and any use or extension of the use of land.
   DISTRICT. A section or sections of the city for which the regulations and
provisions governing the use of buildings and lands are uniform for each class
of use permitted therein.
   DOCK (BOAT LAUNCH).  A structure accessory to the principal use of the
property which extends into navigable waters and used for the launching,
landing or mooring of watercraft.
   DORMITORY. A building used as group living quarters for a student body or
religious order as an accessory use for a college, university, boarding school,
orphanage, convent, monastery or other similar institutional use.
   DRAINAGE.  The removal of surface water or groundwater from land by drains,
grading or other means which include runoff controls to minimize erosion and
sedimentation during and after construction or development, the means for
preserving the water supply and the prevention or alleviation of flooding.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM.  Any natural or artificial feature or structure used for
the conveyance, drainage, or storage of surface and/or underground water,
including, but not limited to, streams, rivers, creeks, ditches, channels,
conduits, gullies, ravines, washes, lakes or ponds and structures such as
culverts, drainage tile, dams, bridges and water storage basins.
   DRAINAGEWAY.  Any natural or artificial watercourse, trench, ditch, swale or
similar depression into which surface water flows.
   DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES.  A physical facility that permits customers to
receive services or obtain goods while remaining in their motor vehicles.
Examples include but are not limited to bank and fast food restaurant drive-
through facilities.
   DRIVEWAY.  A private roadway providing access for motor vehicles to a
parking space, garage, dwelling or other structures.
   DWELLING.  A building or portion thereof which is used exclusively for human
habitation.
   DWELLING, EFFICIENCY.  A dwelling unit consisting of not more than one
habitable room together with kitchen or kitchenette and sanitary facilities.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.  A building containing more than two dwelling
units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED.  A building which is designed for and
occupied by not more than one family and surrounded by open space or yards and
which is not attached to any other dwelling by any means.
   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE. A one-family dwelling in a row of at least three such
units in which each unit has its own front and rear access to the outside, no
unit is located over another unit, and each unit is separated from any other
unit by one or more common fire resistant walls.
   DWELLING, TWO FAMILY.  A building containing two dwelling units, each of
which is totally separated from the other by an unpierced wall extending from
ground to roof or an unpierced ceiling and floor extending from exterior wall
to exterior wall, except for a common stairwell exterior to both dwelling
units.
   DWELLING UNIT.  One or more rooms, designed, occupied or intended for
occupancy as separate living quarters, with cooking, sleeping and sanitary
facilities provided within the dwelling unit for the exclusive use of a single
family maintaining a household.
   EASEMENT.  A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property
owner to and/or for the use by the public, a corporation or another person or
entity.
   ELDERLY (SENIOR CITIZEN) HOUSING. A multiple dwelling building with open
occupancy limited to senior citizens.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance
by public utilities or municipal departments of underground or overhead
telephone, gas, electrical, communication, water or sewer transmission,
distribution, collection, supply or disposal systems including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and other similar equipment and accessories in
connection therewith for the furnishing of adequate service by such private or
public utilities or municipal departments. Personal wireless service and
commercial broadcasting antennas and towers shall not be considered an
essential service.
   EVENT CENTER/RECEPTION HALL.  A facility located on private property that
primarily functions to provide a facility for any type of social gathering that
is available for use by various groups for such activities as public
assemblies, meetings, private meetings, retreats, parties, weddings, receptions
and dances.
   EXISTING USE.  The use of a lot or structure at the time of the enactment of
a zoning ordinance.
   EXTRACTIVE USE. The use of the land for surface or subsurface removal of
sand, gravel, rock, industrial minerals, other non-metallic minerals and peat
not regulated under M.S. § 93.44 to § 93.51.
   FAMILY.  An individual or two or more persons related by blood or marriage
or of not more than five persons who need not be related by blood or marriage
living together in a dwelling unit.
   FARM.  Real property used for commercial agriculture or horticulture.
   FEEDLOT. A confined area or structure used for feeding, breeding, or holding
livestock for eventual sale in which animal waste may accumulate but not
including barns, pens or other structures used in a dairy farm operation.
   FENCE. Any partition, structure, wall or gate erected as a dividing mark,
barrier or enclosure.
   FILLING.  The act of depositing any rock, soil, gravel, sand or other
material on a site.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. An establishment where the principal business is the
receipt, disbursement or exchange of funds and currencies, such as: banks,
credit unions or savings and loans.
   FLOOD.  A temporary rise in a stream flow or stage which results in
inundation of the areas adjacent to the channel.
   FLOODPLAIN.  The areas adjoining a watercourse which have been or hereafter
may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS.  The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building or portion thereof devoted to a particular use, as
measured from the exterior face of the exterior walls or from the centerline of
a common wall of the building or portion thereof devoted to a particular use.
   FLOOR AREA, NET.  The total of all floor areas of a building from the inside
perimeter walls, excluding stairwells and elevator shafts, equipment rooms,
interior vehicular parking or loading; and all floors below the first or ground
floor, except when used or intended to be used for human habitation or service
to the public.
   FOOTPRINT.  The horizontal area measured within the outside of the exterior
walls and supporting columns of the ground floor of a building or structure.
   GARAGE.  A building or structure, or part thereof, used or intended to be
used for the parking and storage of motor vehicles.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE.  A detached accessory building or an attached accessory
portion of the principal building which is intended for and used to store the
private passenger vehicles of the family or families who reside upon the
premises and in which no occupation or business for profit is carried on, and
enclosed on all four sides and pierced only by windows and customary doors.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC.  A garage other than a private garage, used for the housing
or care of motor vehicles, or where such vehicles are equipped for operation
repairs, or kept for renumeration, hire or sale.
   GARAGE SALE.  Any display of used goods and/or salesmen samples for sale of
said goods on a property customarily used as a residence. The persons
conducting the sale shall be residents of the immediate neighborhood.
   GAZEBO. A freestanding accessory structure or pavilion from which views of
surrounding scenery are commonly offered. Such structures are characterized by
partly open construction, design symmetry, and the use of ornamental
architectural features.
   GOLF COURSE. An outdoor facility with at least nine holes for playing golf
and that may include accessory facilities and uses that serve the golfers such
as a clubhouse, driving range, pro shop, restaurants or other food and beverage
services with or without outdoor dining areas, maintenance buildings, cart
storage, shelters, lockers and showers. This definition includes outdoor
driving ranges but does not include miniature golf courses. On-sale liquor
sales may be an accessory use at a golf course provided the license required by
City Code Title 700 is obtained and current.
   GOLF COURSE, MINIATURE. A facility for playing a novelty, small version of
golf played with a putter, typically comprised of miniature putting greens with
artificial playing surfaces and obstacles such as bridges and tunnels.
   GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION). The lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground, paving, or sidewalk within the area between the
building and lot line, or when the lot line is more than five feet from the
building, between the building and a line five feet from the building.
   GRADING PLAN.  Existing topography and proposed finished grades with a
contour interval of no greater than two feet clearly indicating the
relationship of proposed changes to existing topography and remaining features.
   GREENHOUSE/NURSERY, COMMERCIAL.  An enterprise that conducts the retail and/
or wholesale of plants grown on the premises, as well as accessory items (but
not power equipment, such as gas or electric lawn mowers and farm implements)
directly related to their care and maintenance. (A greenhouse/nursery that does
not conduct retail or wholesale is considered horticulture.)
   HAZARDOUS WASTE.  Any refuse, sludge, or other waste material or combination
thereof in solid, semi-solid, liquid, or contained gaseous form which because
of its quantity, concentration, or chemical, physical, or infectious
characteristics may:
      (a)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness; or
      (b)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of, or
otherwise managed. Categories of hazardous waste materials include, but are not
limited to, explosives, flammable substances, oxidizers, poisons, irritants,
and corrosives. Hazardous waste does not include source, special nuclear, or
by-product material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
   HISTORIC SITE. A structure or area of land or water of historic,
archaeological, paleontological or architectural value which has been
designated as a historic site in the Federal Register of historical landmarks,
the Minnesota Historical Society, or by a local governmental unit.
   HOME EXTENDED BUSINESS. A business conducted as part of a residential use
which is beyond the limits and scope of activities for home occupations as
defined by this section.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any activity by a resident carried out for business
purposes and which activity is clearly incidental and secondary to the
residential use of the premises, and which activity does not change the
residential character thereof.
   HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION. A community association, other than a condominium
association, which is organized in a development in which individual owners
share common interests in open space or facilities.
   HORTICULTURE.  The use of land for the growing or production for income of
fruits; vegetables; flowers; nursery stock, including ornamental plants and
trees; and cultured sod. Horticulture is a type of agricultural use.
   HOSPITALITY BUSINESS.  An establishment offering transient lodging
accommodations on a daily rate to the general public, leasable events, meeting
or conference facilities, exhibition halls or other uses of similar character
including hotels, motels, convention facilities, and hospices.
   HOUSEBOAT.  A watercraft vessel having a super structure resembling a house,
usually moored and designed and used as a dwelling.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A compacted surface or a surface covered with material
(i.e., gravel, asphalt, concrete, Class 5, etc.) that increases the depth of
runoff compared to natural soils and land cover. This includes but is not
limited to roads, driveways, parking areas, sidewalks and trails, patios,
tennis courts, basketball courts, swimming pools, building roofs, covered
decks, and other structures.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM OR INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A
sewage treatment system, or part thereof, serving a dwelling, other
establishment, or group thereof, and using sewage tanks followed by soil
treatment and disposal or using advanced treatment devices that discharge below
final grade. Individual sewage treatment system includes holding tanks and
privies (per Minnesota Rules 7080).
   INDUSTRIAL PARK.  A large tract of land that has been planned, developed and
operated as an integrated facility for a number of individual industrial uses,
with special attention to circulation, parking, utility needs, aesthetics, and
compatibility.
   INTERIM USE.  A temporary use of property until a particular date, until the
occurrence of a particular event, or until zoning regulations no longer allow
said use.
   IRRIGATION SYSTEM.  Any structure or equipment, mechanized or other, used to
supply water for landscaping, vegetation, commercial agriculture or
horticulture, including, but not limited to, wells, pumps, motors, pipes,
culverts, gates, dams, ditches, tanks, ponds, and reservoirs.
   JUNK YARD.  Any area, lot, land, parcel, building structure or part thereof
used for the storage, collection, processing, purchase, sale or abandonment of
wastepaper, rags, scrap metal or other scrap or discarded goods, materials,
machinery or two or more unregistered, inoperable motor vehicles or other type
of junk.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL.  Any structure or premises on which dogs are kept for
the business of boarding for a fee, for the business of breeding for sale or
other profit-making purpose, and not solely for private enjoyment.
   KENNEL, PRIVATE.  Any structure or premises on which no more than four (4)
dogs, over six months of age, are kept for private enjoyment and not for
monetary gain.
   LAND RECLAMATION.  The process of the re-establishment of, acceptable
topography (i.e., slopes), vegetative cover, and soil stability, and the
establishment of safe conditions appropriate to the subsequent use of the land.
   LIGHTING RELATED.
      (a)   CUTOFF. The point at which all light rays emitted by a lamp, light
source or luminaire are completely eliminated at a specific angle above the
ground.
      (b)   CUTOFF ANGLE.  The angle formed by a line drawn from the direction
of light rays at the light source and a line perpendicular to the ground from
the light source above which no light is emitted (see Figure 1 on next page).
Figure 1. Cutoff Angle
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2580.png]
 
      (c)   CUTOFF TYPE LUMINAIRE.  A luminaire with elements such as shields,
reflectors, or refractor panels which direct and cut off the light at a cutoff
angle that is less than 90 degrees.
      (d)   FLASHING LIGHT. A light source which is not constant in intensity
or color at all times while in use.
      (e)   FOOT CANDLE. A unit of illumination produced on a surface, all
points of which are one foot from a uniform point source of one candle.
      (f)   LIGHT SOURCE. A single artificial point source of luminescence that
emits measurable radiant energy in or near the visible spectrum.
      (g)   LUMINAIRE. A complete lighting unit consisting of a light source
and all necessary mechanical, electrical and decorative parts.
      (h)   OUTDOOR LIGHTING.  Any light source or collection of light sources,
located outside a building, including but not limited to, light sources
attached to any part of a structure, located on the surface of the ground or
located on freestanding poles.
      (i)   OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURE. Outdoor electrically powered illuminating
devices;, outdoor lighting or reflective surfaces, lamps and similar devices,
permanently installed or portable, used for illumination or advertisement. The
fixture includes the hardware that houses the illumination source and to which
the illumination source is attached including, but not limited to, the hardware
casing. Such devices shall include, but are not limited to, search, spot, and
flood lights for:
         1.   Buildings and structures.
         2.   Recreational areas.
         3.   Parking lot lighting.
         4.   Landscaping lighting.
         5.   Signs.
         6.   Street lighting.
         7.   Product display area lighting.
         8.   Building overhangs and open canopies.
      (j)   SECURITY LIGHTING. Outdoor lighting fixtures installed exclusively
as a measure to reduce the possible occurrence of a crime on the property.
      (k)   SHIELDING. A technique or method of construction permanently
covering the top and sides of a light source by a material which restricts the
light emitted to be projected below an imaginary horizontal plane passing
through the light fixture (see Figure 2).
Figure 2 - Shielding
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2582.png]
 
      (l)   SPILLAGE.  Any reflection, glare or other artificial light that
emits onto any adjoining property or right-of-way and is above a defined
maximum illumination.
   LIQUOR SALES, OFF-SALE.  Licensed sale of intoxicating beverages for
consumption off site.
   LIQUOR SALES, ON-SALE.  Licensed sale of intoxicating beverages for
consumption at the premises where the beverage is purchased.
   LOT.  A tract of land, designated by metes and bounds, registered land
survey, or plat, and separated from other tracts of land by legal description
approved by the City of Lino Lakes and recorded or to be recorded with Anoka
County. Also referred to as a “parcel” or “property”.
   LOT AREA.  The total area within the lot lines of a lot measured in a
horizontal plane.
   LOT, BASE.  Lots meeting all the specifications in the zoning district prior
to being subdivided into a two family dwelling or townhome subdivision.
   LOT, CORNER.  A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two or more
intersecting streets; or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
single street, the interior angle of which is 135 degrees or less.
   LOT DEPTH.  The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line measured from a 90-degree angle from the street right-of-way
within the lot boundaries.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE.  A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines abutting
two substantially parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot.
   LOT FRONTAGE.  The narrowest lot boundary abutting a public street or street
easement that meets minimum lot width requirements. If none of the boundaries
abutting a public street or street easement meet minimum lot width
requirements, then the lot frontage is the widest boundary abutting a street.
   LOT, INTERIOR.  A lot, other than corner lots, including through lots.
   LOT LINE.  A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership except that where any position of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the lot line shall be deemed to be the street or alley right-
of-way.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line separating a lot from the street right-of-way
along the lot frontage.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite and most distant from the lot frontage
which connects the side lot lines. For the purposes of this chapter, the rear
lot line of a triangular lot shall be a line entirely within the lot at least
ten feet long and parallel to and most distance point from the front lot line.
If the front lot line on such a lot is curved, the rear lot line shall be
parallel to a line tangent to the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Lot lines extending away from the lot frontage, which
connects the front and rear lot lines.
   LOT OF RECORD.  Any lot which is one unit of a plat duly approved and filed,
or one unit of an auditor's subdivision or a registered land survey, that has
been recorded with Anoka County, prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   LOT, THROUGH.  A lot fronting on two parallel streets.
   LOT, TRIANGULAR.  A lot in which the side lot lines converge into a single
vertex. The vertex shall be deemed to be the rear lot line.
   LOT, UNIT.  Lots created from the subdivisions of a two family dwelling or
townhome having different minimum lot size requirements than the conventional
base lots within the zoning district.
   LOT WIDTH.  The horizontal distance between the side lot line of a lot
measured at the front building setback line and parallel to the front lot line.
If the front lot line is curved, such as on a cul-de-sac, the lot width is
measured along a line parallel to a tangent to the front lot line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A manufactured home means a structure, transportable in
one or more sections, which in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in
width, or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected on side, is 320 or
more square feet. It is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as
a dwelling with or without permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein. The term includes any structure which meets all the
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certificate required by the Secretary of the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development and complies with the standards established under
M.S. Chapter 327 including the Manufactured Home Building Code adopted therein.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed and/or intended for
the sale of lots for residential occupancy by manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOME LOT.  A plot of land for placement of a single
manufactured home within a manufactured home park.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.  Any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which
two or more occupied manufactured homes are located, either free of charge or
for compensation, and includes any buildings or structures used or intended for
use as part of the equipment of the manufactured home park.
   MANUFACTURING.  An establishment engaged in the indoor manufacturing,
assembly, fabrication, packaging or other industrial processing, primarily from
previously prepared materials, or the indoor provision of industrial services,
where there are few external effects across lot lines. This term includes but
is not limited to a business engaged in the processing, fabrication, assembly,
treatment, or packaging of food, textile, leather, wood, paper, chemical,
plastic, or metal products.
   MASS TRANSIT TERMINAL. The property, equipment and improvements owned, used,
constructed, maintained, controlled, or operated to provide mass transportation
for passengers or to provide for the movement of people, including park-and-
ride stations, transfer stations and parking lots.
   MICRODISTILLERIES. A distillery operated within the state producing premium,
distilled spirits in total quantity not to exceed 40,000 proof gallons in a
calendar year, which distillery is licensed under M.S. Chapter 340A.
   MOBILE HOME.  A single family detached dwelling unit or other structure
designed for year-round occupancy constructed at a factory or assembly plant
and drawn to the site on a permanently attached undercarriage and wheels.
Mobile homes should not include all types of manufactured homes as defined
herein.
   MODEL HOME.  A home which is similar to others in a development and is open
to public inspection for the purpose of selling said other homes.
   MOTOR FUEL STATION.  A place where gasoline is stored only in underground
tanks, kerosene or motor oil and lubricants or grease, for operation of
automobiles, are retailed directly to the public on premises, and including
minor accessories and services for automobiles, but not automobile major
repairs and rebuilding.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A self-propelled device licensed as a motor vehicle and used
for the transportation of people or goods over roads.
   MOTOR VEHICLE SALES LOT. The use of any building, land area, other premises
or portion thereof, for the display, sale, or lease of automobiles, trucks,
vans, trailers, or recreational vehicles.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE OR USE.  A structure, use or activity which was
lawful prior to the adoption, revision or amendment of a zoning ordinance, but
which fails, by reason of such adoption, revision or amendment, to conform to
the present requirements of the zoning district.
   NUISANCE. Anything defined as a nuisance by Title 900 of the City Code.
   NURSING HOME (REST HOME). A building having accommodations where care for
pay is provided for two or more invalids, infirm, aged or convalescent persons
who are not of the immediate family; but not including hospitals, clinics,
sanitariums, or similar institutions.
   OFFICE BUSINESS-CLINIC. An establishment located within a building or
portion of a building providing out-patient health services to patrons,
including general medical clinics, mental health providers, chiropractor,
dentists, orthodontia, oral surgeons, opticians, and other uses of similar
character.
   OFFICE BUSINESS-GENERAL.  An establishment located within a building or
portion of a building for the conduct of business activities involving
predominantly professional administrative or clerical service operations
including attorneys, financial advisors, insurance, travel, real estate, and
other uses of similar character.
   OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE.  A space accessible from the street, alley, or
way, in a building or on the lot, for the use of trucks while loading or
unloading merchandise or materials.
   ON-STREET PARKING SPACE. A temporary storage area for a motor vehicle which
is located on a dedicated street right-of-way.
   OPEN AIR MARKET. An occasional or periodic market held in an open area or
structure where goods are offered for sale to the general public by individual
sellers from open or semi-open facilities or temporary structures.
   OPEN SPACE. Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved and
set aside, dedicated, designated or reserved for public or private use or
enjoyment, or for the use and enjoyment of owners and occupants of land
adjoining or neighboring such open space.
   OPEN SPACE, PRIVATE. Common open space held in private ownership, the use of
which is normally limited to the occupants of a single dwelling or building.
   OPEN SPACE, PUBLIC.  Open space owned by a public agency and maintained by
it for the use and enjoyment of the general public.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL (OHWL). The boundary of public waters and wetlands
as determined by the Minnesota Dept. of Natural Resources: an elevation
delineating the highest water level which has been maintained for a sufficient
period of time to leave evidence upon the landscape, commonly that point where
the natural vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly
terrestrial.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. The storage of goods, materials, equipment, manufactured
products and similar items not fully enclosed by a building for a period
greater than 24 hours.
   PARCEL. A tract of land, designated by metes and bounds, registered land
survey, or plat, and separated from other tracts of land by legal description
approved by the City of Lino Lakes and recorded or to be recorded with Anoka
County. Also referred to as a “lot” or “property”.
   PARK, PRIVATE. A tract of land presently owned or controlled and used by
private or semi-public persons, entities, groups, etc. for active and/or
passive recreational purposes.
   PARK, PUBLIC.  A tract of land publicly owned and used by the public for
active and/or passive recreational purposes.
   PARKING AREA.  Any public or private area, under or outside of a building or
structure, designed and used for parking motor vehicles, including parking
spaces, parking lots, garages, private streets, and legally designated areas of
public streets.
   PARKING LOT. An off-street, ground level area, usually surfaced and
improved, for the temporary storage of motor vehicles.
   PARKING SPACE. A space for the parking of a motor vehicle within a public or
private parking area.
   PARTY WALL. A common shared wall between two separate structures, buildings,
or dwelling units.
   PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including pickup trucks and
vans, designed and used for carrying not more than 15 individuals including the
driver.
   PATIO. A level, surfaced area directly adjacent to a principal building at
or within three feet of the finished grade, without a permanent roof which is
intended for outdoor lounging, dining and the like.
   PERMITTED USE. Any use allowed in a zoning district and subject to the
restrictions applicable to that zoning district.
   PERSONAL SERVICE. Personal services shall include the following: barber
shops, beauty salon, electrolysis, manicurist, tanning parlor, physical
therapy, therapeutic massage, tattooing, and body piercing.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An area to be planned and developed as a single
entity containing one or more residential clusters or planned residential
developments and/or one or more public, quasi-public, commercial or industrial
areas in such ranges of ratios of non-residential uses to residential uses as
shall be specified.
   PLAY AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. Equipment customary and incidental to the
principal use of the site intended for the enjoyment and convenience of the
residents of the principal use and their occasional guests. Such facilities
include swing sets, play sculptures, sand boxes, picnic tables, basketball
standards, barbeque grills and the like.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary or predominant use of any lot and/or building.
   PROPERTY. A lot, parcel, or tract of land.
   PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL, AND RELIGIOUS BUILDINGS.  Public or semi-public
recreational buildings and neighborhood or community centers; limited to
nursery, elementary, junior high and senior high schools; and religious
institutions such as churches, chapels, temples, mosque, and synagogues
   PUBLICATION.  Notice placed in the official city newspaper stating time,
location and date of meeting and description of the topic.
   QUARTER-QUARTER SECTION. The northeast, northwest, southwest or southeast
quarter of a quarter section delineated by the United States Government system
of land survey and which is exactly or nearly 40 acres in size.
   QUASI-PUBLIC. Essentially public although under private ownership or
control.
   RECREATION AREA. An outdoor area which may include water bodies and
incidental buildings thereto used or intended for active or passive recreation,
including, but not limited to, parks, playground, hunting preserves, polo
grounds, nature trails, bridle paths, beaches, campsites, ski and snowmobile
trails, and canoe routes, provided that parcels on which there are located
stadiums, arenas, bowling alleys, swimming pools, and other recreational
activities conducted primarily in structures are not recreation areas.
   RECREATIONAL BUSINESS. Arcade, health club, gymnasium, bowling alley,
billiard (pool) hall, dance hall, dance studio, skating rink, theater, or
indoor firearms range.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle designed and used for recreational purposes
and enjoyment including, but not limited to, snowmobiles, motorized all-terrain
vehicles, boats, race cars, travel trailers, truck campers, camping trailers,
and self-propelled motor homes.
   RELATIVE. Father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter, son-in-law or
daughter-in-law.
   RESEARCH LABORATORIES.  A use engaged in research and development, testing,
assembly, repair, and manufacturing. Examples include research labs in the
following industries: biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, medical instrumentation
or supplies, communications and information technology, electronics and
instrumentation, and computer hardware and software. Office, warehousing,
wholesaling, and distribution of the finished products produced at the site are
allowed as part of this use.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY, STATE LICENSED. Any program, defined by M.S. §
245A.02, subd. 14, that provides 24-hour-a-day care, supervision, food,
lodging, rehabilitation, training, education, habilitation, or treatment
outside a person's own home, including a program in an intermediate care
facility for four or more persons with developmental disabilities; and chemical
dependency or chemical abuse programs that are located in a hospital or nursing
home and receive public funds for providing chemical abuse or chemical
dependency treatment services under M.S. Chapter 254B. Residential programs
include home and community-based services for persons with mental retardation
or a related condition that are provided in or outside of a person's own home.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment that serves food in individual servings for
consumption on or off premises, including sit-down restaurants, take out, pick
up, or delivery food sales, but not including drive-through facilities. Outdoor
dining areas and drive-through facilities may or may not be allowed in each
zoning district as they are not automatically allowed when a restaurant is an
allowable use.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. A restriction on the use of land usually set forth in
the deed.
   RETAIL BUSINESS. An establishment engaged in the display and sale of
products produced off-site directly to consumers within a building or portion
of a building excluding any exterior display and sales.
   RETAINING WALL. A wall not laterally supported at the top that resists
lateral soil load and other imposed loads.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water
main, sanitary or storm sewer main, or for another special use. The usage of
the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting purposes shall mean that every RIGHT-
OF-WAY hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to be separate and
distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining the RIGHT-OF-WAY and not included
within the dimensions or areas of the lots or parcels. RIGHT-OF-WAY intended
for streets, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains or any other use
involving maintenance by a public agency shall be dedicated to public use by
the recording of the plat on which the RIGHT-OF-WAY is established.
   ROADSIDE STANDS. A temporary use which is primarily engaged in the sale of
fresh agricultural products, locally grown on- or off-site, but may include,
incidental to fresh produce sale, the sale of limited prepackaged food products
and non-food items.
   SANITARY LAND FILL. A site used for solid waste disposal.
   SCHOOL. Any building or part thereof which is designed, constructed or used
for education or instruction in any branch of knowledge.
   SCHOOL, PRIVATE. Any building or group of buildings the use of which meets
state requirements for primary, secondary, or higher education and which use
does not secure the major part of its funding of any governmental agency.
   SELF-STORAGE, INDOOR. A fully enclosed, climate-controlled building that
contains separate, individual and private storage spaces of varying sizes,
leased or rented on an individual basis for the storage of personal property.
Individual renters’ control and access individual storage spaces and each unit
must be directly accessed from the interior of the building via its own access
door. Outdoor access to individual units is prohibited. Ancillary retail sales
of related items, such as moving supplies, and facility offices may also be
included. Such facilities to be used for storage only.
   SELF-STORAGE, MINI. An enclosed storage facility containing independent,
fully enclosed bays that are leased to individuals exclusively for the storage
of household goods or personal belongings.
   SERVICE BUSINESS OFF-SITE. A company that provides useful labor,
maintenance, repair and activities incidental to business production or
distribution where the service is provided at the customer's location,
including delivery services, catering services, plumbing and sewer services,
and other uses of similar character.
   SERVICE BUSINESS ON-SITE. An establishment that provides useful labor,
maintenance, repair and activities incidental to business production or
distribution where the customer patronizes the location of the operation, such
as banks (not including drive-through facilities), copy centers, laundromats,
dry cleaners, funeral homes and mortuaries, appliance repair, tailor shops, and
travel bureaus.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, individual
sewage treatment system, or other facility, and an ordinary high water level,
sewage treatment system, top of bluff, street, highway, lot line, or other
facility.
   SETBACK LINE. That line that is the required minimum distance from the
street right-of- way line or any other lot line that establishes the area
within which the principal or accessory structure must be constructed or
located.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of commercial establishments planned, constructed,
and managed as a total entity with customer and employee parking provided on-
site, provision for goods delivery separated from customer access, aesthetic
considerations, and protection from the elements.
   SIGN. Any object, device, display or structure, or part thereof, situated
outdoors or indoors, which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct or
attract attention to an object, person, institution, organization, business,
product, service, event or location by any means, including words, letters,
figures, design, symbols, fixtures, colors, illumination or projected images.
   SIGN AREA. The entire face of a sign including the advertising surface and
any framing, trim or molding, but not including the supporting structure.
   SIGNIFICANT TREE. See definition of TREE.
   SPECIMEN TREE. See definition of TREE.
   SITE PLAN. The development plan for one or more lots on which is shown the
existing and proposed conditions of the lot including: topography, vegetation,
drainage, floodplains, marshes and waterways, open spaces, walkways, means of
ingress and egress, utility services, landscaping, structures and signs,
lighting and screening device; any other information that reasonably may be
required in order that an informed decision can be made by the approving
authority.
   SLOPE. The degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, usually,
expressed in percent or degrees.
   SMALL BREWER. A brewer licensed under M.D. § 340A.301, Subdivision 6, clause
(c), (i), or (j) who also holds a retail license to sell off-sale malt liquor
at its licensed premises which has been produced and packaged by the brewer.
   SOIL CONSERVATION PLAN. A description of the soils of the site and
information on soil suitability. Also included shall be any remedial steps
taken by the developer to render the soils suitable and any erosion and
sedimentation controls indicating type and location of control measures. The
plan should provide for the protection of soils during the construction process
and/or the long-term occupancy of the site.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A device or structural design feature intended to
provide for collection, storage and distribution of solar energy for heating or
cooling, electricity generating or water heating.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING INTEGRATED. A solar energy system that is an
integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate
mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural
component of the building.
   SOLAR FARM. An area of land designated for the purpose of producing
photovoltaic electricity, as a principal use of the land, for wholesale
production or for a community solar production.
   SPORT COURT. An outdoor facility that typically includes a paved playing
surface for one or more sport activities such as, but not limited to, tennis,
basketball, hockey, or volleyball.
   STABLE, COMMERCIAL. The business of boarding horses for fee for persons not
residing on the premises and may include instruction, exhibition and sale of
horses. This shall include the raising and breeding of horses.
   STORAGE BUILDING. A one-story accessory building used or intended for the
storage of hobby tools, garden equipment, workshop equipment, boats,
snowmobiles, etc.
   STORAGE, OUTDOOR. See OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
story shall be that upper surface of the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof
above. If the finished floor level directly above a basement or unused under-
floor space is more than six feet above grade as defined herein for more than
50% of the total perimeter or is more than 12 feet above grade as defined
herein at any point, such basement or unused under-floor space shall be
considered as a story.
   STORY, FIRST. The lowest story in a building which qualifies as a story, as
defined herein, except that a floor level in a building having only one floor
level shall be classified as a first story, provided such floor level is not
more than four feet below grade, as defined herein, for more than 50% of the
total perimeter, or more than eight feet below grade, as defined herein, at any
point.
   STREET, COLLECTOR.  A street which collects traffic from local streets and
connects with minor and major arterials. See City's Functional Classification
System for Roadways contained in the Comprehensive Plan.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC.  A local street, one end of which is closed and consists
of a circular turn around.
   STREET, LOCAL.  A street designed to provide vehicular access to abutting
property and to discourage through traffic. See City's Functional
Classification System for Roadways contained in the Comprehensive Plan.
   STREET, MINOR ARTERIAL. A street with signals at important intersections and
stop signs on the side streets, and which collects and distributes traffic to
and from collector streets. See City's Functional Classification System for
Roadways contained in the Comprehensive Plan.
   STREET, PRIVATE. Any street not dedicated to the public and to be maintained
by a private entity.
   STREET, PUBLIC.  A right-of-way affording access by pedestrians and
vehicles, whether designated as a street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway,
throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, court, way, trail or however otherwise
designated. Private, ingress and egress easements shall not be considered
streets.
   STRUCTURE.  Anything which is built, constructed or erected, an edifice or
building of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up and/or
composed of parts joined together in some definite manner whether temporary or
permanent in character.
    STRUCTURE ALTERATION. Any change in either the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams and girders, or in the
dimensions or configurations of the roof or exterior walls.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any extension, repair, reconstruction, or other
improvement of a property, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the fair
market value of a property either before the improvement is started or if the
property has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
   SWIMMING POOL. A water-filled enclosure, permanently constructed or
portable, having a depth of more than 18 inches below the level of the
surrounding land, or an above surface pool having a depth of more than 30
inches designed, used and maintained for swimming and bathing.
   TASTING ROOM. An area used for accessory alcoholic beverage retail
consumption on the premises where the alcoholic beverages are produced.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A structure without any foundation or footings and
which is removed when the designated time period, activity, or use for which
the temporary structure was erected has ceased.
   TERRACE.  A raised flat area with sloping sides or sides held by retaining
walls, unroofed and landscaped or surfaced.
   TOOL SHED. A small one-story accessory building used or intended for the
storage of hobby tools and garden equipment.
   TOPOGRAPHY.  The configuration of a surface area showing relative
elevations.
   TOWNHOUSE. A single family dwelling unit constructed in a group of three or
more attached units in which each unit extends from foundation to roof and with
open space on at least two sides.
   TRACT. An area, parcel, site, piece of land, or property.
   TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL. A specialized instructional establishment that
provides on-site training of business, commercial, and/or trade skills such as
accounting, data processing, and computer repair. This classification excludes
establishments providing training in an activity that is not otherwise
permitted in the zone. Incidental instructional services in conjunction with
another primary use shall not be considered a business and trade school.
   TRAILER. A vehicle without motive power, designed to be towed by a passenger
motor vehicle but not designed for human occupancy and which includes but is
not limited to a utility trailer, boat trailer, horse trailer, or snowmobile
trailer.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any individual person whose business in the city is
temporary or seasonal and consists of selling and delivering merchandise within
the city, and who in furtherance of the purpose uses or occupies any structure,
vehicle or other place for the exhibition and sale of the merchandise.
   TREE. Any of the following type of trees, as each is defined herein:
      (a)   CONIFEROUS TREE. A woody plant which, at maturity, is at least 12
feet or more in height, having foliage on the outermost portion of the branches
year round.
      (b)   DECIDUOUS TREE. A woody plant which, at maturity, is at least 15
feet or more in height, having a defined crown, and which sheds leaves
annually.
      (c)   SIGNIFICANT TREE. A healthy tree measuring a minimum of six inches
in diameter at breast height (DBH) for deciduous trees, or a minimum of 12 feet
in height for coniferous trees.
      (d)   SIGNIFICANT TREE STAND. A grouping or cluster of coniferous and/or
deciduous trees with contiguous crown cover, occupying 500 or more square feet
of property, which are comprised of deciduous trees six inches or larger DBH or
coniferous trees 12 feet or higher in height.
      (e)   SPECIMEN TREE. A healthy hardwood tree measuring equal to or
greater than 30 inches DBH and/or a coniferous tree measuring 50 feet or
greater in height.
   TREE CERTIFICATION. A certified inventory of trees on the site after work is
complete listing all trees and their final disposition, which is signed by a
licensed forester or landscape architect.
   TREE PRESERVATION PLAN. A plan and inventory certified by a forester or
landscape architect indicating all of the significant trees and their locations
in the proposed development or on the lot. The tree preservation plan shall
include the size, species, tag numbers, and location of all significant trees
proposed to be saved and removed on the area of development, and the measures
proposed to protect the significant trees to be saved.
   TRUCKING TERMINAL. Land or buildings used primarily as a relay station for
the transfer of freight from one vehicle to another or one party to another
rather than permanent or long term storage. The terminal facility might include
storage areas for trucks and buildings for truck maintenance and repair.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the strict provisions of this chapter as applied
to a specific piece of property in order to provide relief for a property owner
because of undue hardship imposed upon the property by this chapter. A variance
shall normally be limited to height, density and yard requirements. A
modification in the allowable uses within a district shall not be considered a
variance.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL.  A place for the treatment, hospitalization, surgery,
care and boarding of animals and birds, under the direction of one or more
licensed veterinarians.
   WAREHOUSE.  A building used for warehousing.
   WAREHOUSING AND DISTRIBUTION. The storage, wholesaling, or distribution of
manufactured products, supplies, and equipment.
   WATERBODY OR WATERCOURSE. Any natural or man-made passageway on the surface
of the earth so situated and having such a topographical nature that surface
water stands or flows through it from other areas. The term includes ponding
areas, drainage channels, swales, waterways, creeks, rivers, lakes, streams,
wetland areas, and any other open surface water flow which is the result of
storm water or ground water discharge. This term does not include man-made
piping systems commonly referred to as storm sewers.
   WATERSHED.  The area drained by the natural and artificial drainage system,
bounded peripherally by a bridge or stretch of high land dividing drainage
areas.
   WETLANDS.  An area where water stands near, or above the soil surface during
a significant portion of most years, saturating the soil and supporting a
predominantly aquatic form of vegetation, and which may have the following
characteristics:
      (a)   Vegetation belonging to the marsh (emergent aquatic), bog, fen,
sedge meadow, shrub land, southern lowland forest (lowland hardwood), and
northern lowland forest (conifer swamp) communities. (These communities
correspond roughly to wetland types 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, and 8 described by the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Circular 39, “Wetlands of the U.S.
1956".)
      (b)   Mineral soils with gley horizons or organic soils belonging to the
Histosol order (peat and mulch).
      (c)   Soil which is water logged or covered with water at least three
months of the year.
      (d)   Swamps, bogs, marshes, potholes, wet meadows, and sloughs are
wetlands, and such property, may be shallow water bodies, the waters of which
are stagnant or actuated by very feeble currents, and may at times be
sufficiently dry to permit tillage, but would require drainage to be made
arable. The edge of a wetland is commonly that point where the natural
vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to preeminently terrestrial.
   WHOLESALE BUSINESSES/SHOWROOMS. An establishment or place of business
primarily engaged in selling and/or distributing merchandise to retailers; to
industrial, commercial, institutional, or professional business users, or to
other wholesalers; or acting as agents or brokers and buying merchandise for,
or selling merchandise to, such individuals or companies. This is not
considered a general commercial use.
   WINERY.  A place that makes wine through the fermentation of grapes. This
includes sparkling wine, vermouth, cider, mead, perry and sake.
   YARD. An open space that lies between the principal or accessory building or
buildings and the nearest lot line. Such yard is unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground upward except as may be specifically provided in the Zoning
Ordinance.
   YARD, FRONT.  A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the front lot line and the nearest principal building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear lot line and the nearest principal building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending the depth of a lot from the front yard to the
rear yard between the side lot line and the nearest principal building.
   ZERO LOT LINE. The location of a building on a lot in such a manner that one
or more of the building's sides rests directly on a lot line.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.  The Community Development Director or as assigned,
who is charged with the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 13-23, passed 9-11-2023)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 1007.015 AMENDMENTS: TEXT AND MAP.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to prescribe the procedure and
requirements for any change to the zoning classification, text or zoning
boundaries of a property or any amendment to any provision of this chapter.
   (2)   Initiation. Amendments may be initiated by action of the City Council,
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Board, or by petition of a property
owner.
   (3)   Submittal requirements.
      (a)   Petitions for text amendments shall include detailed written and
graphic materials fully explaining the proposed change.
      (b)   Petitions for map amendments shall include, as determined by the
Community Development Director, either site and building plans consistent with
the requirements established in City Code §
1007.020 (Site and Building Plan Review) or information required by City Code
Title 1000 for a plat submittal.
   (4)   Procedure. An application for zoning (text or map) amendment shall be
approved or denied within 60 days of the date of its official complete
submission pursuant to M.S. § 15.99 unless extended pursuant to statute or a
time waiver is granted by the applicant. Additional city requirements are as
follows:
      (a)   The property owner or their agent shall file with the Zoning
Administrator a completed application form together with the required
submittals and a fee as required in §
1007.000(8) of this chapter. The request for the amendment shall be placed on
the agenda of the Planning and Zoning Board according to the city's deadline
and meeting schedule.
      (b)   The city shall set the date for a public hearing and have notice of
such hearing published in the legal newspaper at least ten days prior to said
hearing in accordance with M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 3.
      (c)   The city shall mail notice of the public hearing to all property
owners within 600 feet of any property proposed for zoning text or map
amendments. Said notice shall be mailed at least ten days prior to the day of
the public hearing in accordance with M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 3. Failure of any
property owner to receive the mailed notification shall not invalidate the
proceedings.
      (d)   The Zoning Administrator shall instruct the appropriate staff
persons to prepare technical reports where appropriate and provide general
assistance in preparing a recommendation of the action to the City Council.
      (e)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall hold the public hearing and
consider possible adverse effects of the proposed amendment. Its judgement
shall be based upon, but not limited to, the following factors:
         1.   The proposed action is consistent with the official City
Comprehensive Plan.
         2.   The proposed action is or will be compatible with present and
future land uses of the area.
         3.   The proposed action conforms with all performance standards
contained herein.
         4.   The proposed action can be accommodated with existing public
services and will not overburden the city’s service capacity.
         5.   Traffic generation by the proposed action is within capabilities
of streets serving the property as described in §
1007.020(4)(d) of this chapter.
      (f)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall make findings of fact and
recommend approval or denial of the request. Such recommendation shall be
accompanied by the report and recommendation of the city staff.
      (g)   Approval of a proposed amendment shall require passage by a
majority vote of all members of the City Council except that the adoption or
amendment of any portion of a zoning ordinance which changes all or part of the
existing classification of a zoning district from residential to either
commercial or industrial requires a four-fifths majority vote of all members of
the City Council. If the City Council denies a request, it shall state in
writing the reasons for the denial at the time it denies the request.
      (h)   An amendment to this chapter, adopted by the City Council, shall
take effect 30 days after its publication or at such later date as it
specifies.
      (i)   No application for a zoning text or map amendment which has been
denied shall be resubmitted for a period of 12 months from the date of said
order of denial.
§ 1007.016 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to allow the city to review
uses, which because of their unique characteristics, cannot be permitted as of
right in a particular zoning district, but which may be allowed upon showing
that such use in a specified location will comply with all of the conditions
and standards of this zoning ordinance. When such circumstances exist, a
conditional use permit may be granted. Conditions may be applied to issuance of
the permit and an annual review of the permit may be required. The permit shall
be granted for a particular use and not for a particular person or firm.
Conditional use permits may be granted in accordance with this subdivision for
any use or purpose for which such permits are required or permitted by this
chapter or as listed as a conditional use for the zoning districts provided in
§§
1007.100 through
1007.151.
   (2)   Submittal requirements. An application for a conditional use permit
shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator and shall be accompanied with the
submittal information as identified in §
1007.020 (Site and Building Plan Review).
   (3)   Procedure. An application for a conditional use permit shall be
approved or denied within 60 days of the date of its official complete
submission pursuant to M.S. §
15.99 unless extended pursuant to Statute or a time waiver is granted by the
applicant. Additional city requirements are as follows:
      (a)   The property owner or their agent shall file with the Zoning
Administrator a completed application form together with the required
submittals and a fee as required in §
1007.000(8). The request for conditional use permit shall be placed on the
agenda of the Planning & Zoning Board according to the city’s deadline and
meeting schedule.
      (b)   The city shall set the date for a public hearing and have notice of
such hearing published in the legal newspaper at least ten days prior to said
hearing in accordance with M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 3.
      (c)   The city shall mail notice of the public hearing to all property
owners within 350 feet of the property in question. Said notice shall be mailed
at least ten days prior to the day of the public hearing in accordance with
M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 3. Failure of any property owner to receive the mailed
notification shall not invalidate the proceedings.
      (d)   The Zoning Administrator shall instruct the appropriate staff
persons to prepare technical reports where appropriate and provide general
assistance in preparing a recommendation of the action to the City Council.
      (e)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall hold the public hearing and
consider possible adverse effects of the proposed conditional use. Its
judgement shall be based upon, but not limited to, the following factors:
         1.   The proposed development application has been found to be
consistent with the design standards listed in §
1007.020(4).
         2.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials,
equipment and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons,
property, or the general welfare because of excessive production of traffic,
noise, smoke, fumes, glare, or odors.
         3.   Will not result in the destruction, loss, or damage of a natural,
scenic or historic feature of major importance.
      (f)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall make findings of fact and
recommend such actions or conditions relating to the request as they deem
necessary to carry out the intent and purpose of this chapter. Such
recommendation shall be made in writing and accompanied by the report and
recommendation of city staff.
      (g)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning and
Zoning Board and the city staff, the City Council shall make a recorded finding
of fact and may impose any condition they consider necessary to protect the
public health, safety and welfare.
      (h)   Following approval of the conditional use permit, the city shall
file a certified copy thereof including a legal description of the property
with the County Recorder and/or Registrar of Title.
   (4)   Expiration. The applicant shall commence the use or construction
within one year of the date of approval unless a different time is specified in
the conditional use permit. Otherwise, the approval shall be null and void,
unless an extension is requested in writing, and for good cause, is granted by
the City Council. A conditional use specified in the permit expires if, for any
reason, the authorized use ceases for more than one year.
   (5)   Any change involving structural alteration, enlargement,
intensification of use, or similar change not specifically permitted by the
conditional use permit issued shall require an amended conditional use permit
and all procedures shall apply as if a new permit were being issued. An amended
conditional use permit application and requests for changes in conditions shall
be administered in a manner similar to that required for a conditional use
permit.
   (6)   All uses existing as of July 14, 1997 that are included in the list of
conditional uses for the zoning district in which they are located shall be
considered as having a conditional use permit which contains conditions that
permit the land use and structures as they existed on said date. Any
enlargement, structural alteration, or intensification of such use shall
require an amended conditional use permit as provided for above.
   (7)   No application for a conditional use permit shall be resubmitted for a
period of 12 months from the date of said order of denial.
   (8)   Revocation. If an approved conditional use permit is in violation of
this chapter or the conditions of permit approval, the city may initiate a
process to revoke the conditional use permit. The city shall then conduct a
public hearing to consider the revocation of a conditional use permit.
Notifications shall be distributed and published according to division (3)(b)
and (3)(c) above. The public hearing shall be conducted by the Planning and
Zoning Board, which shall make a recommendation to the City Council. In
considering revocation, the Board and the City Council shall consider
compliance with the approved conditions of the conditional use permit and the
standards listed in division (3)(e). The city may also conduct a public hearing
and consider revocation if the time requirements of division (4) have not been
met.
   (9)   Following a vote by the City Council to revoke the conditional use
permit, the city shall file a certified copy thereof including a legal
description of the property with Anoka County.
§ 1007.017 INTERIM USE PERMITS.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section regarding interim uses is:
      (a)   To allow a use for a brief period of time until a permanent
location is obtained or while the permanent location is under construction.
      (b)   To allow a use that is presently judged acceptable by the City
Council, but that with anticipated development or redevelopment, will not be
acceptable in the future or will be replaced in the future by a permitted or
conditional use allowed within the respective district.
      (c)   To allow a use which is reflective of anticipated long range change
to an area and which is in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan provided that
said use maintains harmony and compatibility with surrounding uses and is in
keeping with the architectural character and design standards of existing uses
and development.
   (2)   Procedure.
      (a)   Interim uses shall be processed according to the standards and
procedures for a conditional use permit as established by §
1007.016 of this chapter.
      (b)   General standards. An interim use shall comply with the following:
         1.   Meets the standards of a conditional use permit set forth in §
1007.016.
         2.   Conforms to the applicable performance standards of this chapter.
         3.   The use is allowed as an interim use in the respective zoning
district.
         4.   The date or event that will terminate the use can be identified
with certainty.
         5.   The use will not impose additional costs on the public if it is
necessary for the public to take the property in the future.
         6.   The user agrees to any conditions that the City Council deem
appropriate for permission of the use.
   (3)   Termination. An interim use shall terminate on the happening of any of
the following events, whichever first occurs:
      (a)   The date stated in the permit.
      (b)   Upon violation of conditions under which the permit was issued.
      (c)   Upon change in the city’s zoning regulations which renders the use
non-conforming.
      (d)   The redevelopment of the use and property upon which it is located
to a permitted or conditional use as allowed within the respective zoning
district.
   (4)   Revocation. If an approved interim use permit is in violation of this
chapter or the conditions of permit approval, the city may initiate a process
to revoke the interim use permit. The city shall then conduct a public hearing
to consider the revocation of an interim use permit. Notifications shall be
distributed and published according to division (2) above. The public hearing
shall be conducted by the Planning and Zoning Board, which shall make a
recommendation to the City Council. In considering revocation, the Board and
the City Council shall consider compliance with the approved conditions of the
interim use permit and the standards listed in division (2)(b).
§ 1007.018 VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for deviations from
the requirements of this chapter, and to provide for the appeal of an
interpretation of legislative intent of the provisions of this chapter.
   (2)   Board designation. The City Council shall serve as the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals.
   (3)   Variances. Variances from the requirements of this chapter, including
restrictions placed on nonconformities, may be granted if the following
conditions are met:
      (a)   Criteria and findings of fact. No variance shall be granted unless
it meets all the criteria in divisions 1. through 6. below, or unless division
7. below applies. The city shall make findings regarding compliance with these
criteria.
         1.   The variance shall be in harmony with the general purposes and
intent of this chapter.
         2.   The variance shall be consistent with the official City
Comprehensive Plan.
         3.   There shall be practical difficulties in complying with this
chapter. “Practical difficulties,” as used in connection with the granting of a
variance, means that the property owner proposes to use the property in a
reasonable manner not permitted by this chapter. Economic considerations alone
do not constitute practical difficulties. Practical difficulties include, but
are not limited to, inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy
systems.
         4.   The plight of the landowner shall be due to circumstances unique
to the property not created by the landowner.
         5.   The variance shall not alter the essential character of the
locality.
         6.   A variance shall not be granted for any use that is not allowed
under the ordinance for property in the zoning district where the subject site
is located.
         7.   In accordance with M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 6, variances shall be
granted for earth sheltered construction as defined in M.S. § 216C.06, Subd.
14, when in harmony with the zoning ordinance.
      (b)   Submittal requirements. An application for a variance shall be
filed with the Zoning Administrator and shall be accompanied with the following
submittal information:
         1.   Proof of title and contract/purchase agreement and/or property
owner signature on the application form when applicable.
         2.   Certificate of survey prepared by a licensed land surveyor in
compliance with the requirements in §
1007.020(2)(b). The Community Development Department may waive the certificate
of survey when the survey will not provide information relevant to the variance
necessary to review the application.
         3.   Graphic information, plans, specifications, or other materials
that illustrate the requested variance.
         4.   Narrative description of how the application complies with the
variance criteria listed below.
      (c)   Procedures. An application for a variance shall be approved or
denied within 60 days of the date of its official complete submission pursuant
to M. S. § 15.99 unless extended pursuant to statute or a time waiver is
granted by the applicant. Additional city requirements for variances are as
follows:
         1.   The property owner or their agent shall file with the Zoning
Administrator a completed application form together with the required
submittals and a fee as required in §
1007.000(8).
         2.   The request for variance shall be placed on the agenda of the
Planning and Zoning Board according to the city’s deadline and meeting
schedule.
         3.   The Zoning Administrator shall instruct the appropriate staff
persons to prepare technical reports where appropriate, and provide general
assistance in preparing a recommendation of the action to the City Council.
         4.   The petitioner or representative should appear before the
Planning and Zoning Board in order to present information or to answer
questions. The Board shall make a recommendation to the City Council including
findings on compliance with required criteria and conditions to be imposed.
         5.   The City Council may grant the variance if it has been
established that the application complies with all the required criteria. The
city shall decide upon requests for variance by approving or denying the same
in part or in whole.
         6.   The city may impose conditions in the granting of variances.
Conditions must be directly related to and must bear a rough proportionality to
the impact created by the variance.
         7.   The City Council shall, on all variance applications whether
granted or denied, record findings of fact. Such findings shall be recorded in
writing and shall state the City Council's reasons for such action. If the City
Council denies an application, it shall state in writing the reasons for the
denial at the time it denies the application. However, when a vote on a
resolution or properly made motion to approve an application fails for any
reason, the failure shall constitute a denial of the application provided that
those voting against the motion state on the record the reasons why they oppose
the application.
         8.   Following approval of the variance, the city shall file a
certified copy thereof including a legal description of the property with the
County Recorder or Registrar of Titles.
   (4)   Appeal. An appeal shall only be applicable to an administrative
permit, order, requirement or interpretation of intent of provisions of this
chapter. Opinions and evaluations as they pertain to the impact or result of a
request are not subject to the appeal procedure.
      (a)   Procedure. An appeal from an administrative action shall be filed
by the property owner or their agent with the Zoning Administrator within ten
days after the making of the order, requirement, or interpretation being
appealed.
         1.   The property owner or their agent shall file with the Zoning
Administrator an application for appeal stating the specific grounds upon which
the appeal is made. Said application shall be accompanied by a fee as
established by City Council ordinance. In cases where the application is judged
to be incomplete, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant, in
writing, within ten days of the date of submission.
         2.   An appeal stays all proceedings and the furtherance of the action
being appealed unless it is certified to the Board of Adjustment Appeals, after
the notice of appeal is filed, that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate a stay would cause imminent peril to life and property.
         3.   The Zoning Administrator shall instruct the appropriate staff
persons to prepare technical reports when appropriate and shall provide general
assistance in preparing a recommendation on the action to the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals.
         4.   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall consider the
application for appeal at a public meeting and consider testimony of the
property owner and city staff.
         5.   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall make its decision
within 60 days of the date of its official complete submission pursuant to M.S.
§ 15.99 unless extended pursuant to statute or a time waiver is granted by the
applicant.
         6.   The Zoning Administrator shall serve a copy of the final order of
the Board upon the applicant by mail.
         7.   No application for a variance shall be resubmitted for a period
of 12 months from the date of said order of denial.
   (5)   Expiration. The applicant shall comply with the conditions of approval
or complete construction within one year of the date of approval unless a
different time is specified in the variance approval. Otherwise, the approval
shall be null and void, unless an extension is requested in writing, and for
good cause, is granted by the City Council.
§ 1007.019 ADMINISTRATION: ADMINISTRATIVE PERMITS AND APPROVALS.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations and
procedures for the processing and consideration of activities allowed by
administrative permit, and of matters requiring the approvals of the Zoning
Administrator with the goal of protecting the health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of the city.
   (2)   Submittal requirements. An application for an administrative permit or
approval shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator and shall be accompanied
with the following information:
      (a)   The applicant shall include as part of the application, the
applicable submission information as identified in §
1007.020 Site and Building Plan Review. The Zoning Administrator may waive
submission information not deemed necessary for the administrative review.
      (b)   A concise statement describing the proposed use, event or activity,
including the purpose, type of merchandise involved, dates and times of
operation, number of employees involved, provisions for on-site security,
provisions for on-site parking, and other pertinent information required by the
Zoning Administrator to fully evaluate the application.
   (3)   Procedure. An application for administrative permit shall be approved
or denied within 60 days of the date of its official complete submission
pursuant to M.S. § 15.99 unless extended pursuant to statute or a time waiver
is granted by the applicant. Additional city requirements are as follows:
      (a)   The property owner or their agent shall file with the Zoning
Administrator a completed application form together with the required
submittals and a fee as required in §
1007.000(8).
      (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the applications and related
materials and shall determine whether the proposal is in compliance with all
applicable evaluation criteria, codes, ordinances, and applicable performance
standards set forth in this chapter.
      (c)   A written report or letter of approval shall be issued to the
applicant when a determination of compliance has been made. Specific conditions
to assure compliance with applicable evaluation criteria, codes, ordinances,
and the standards of this chapter shall be attached to the permit or letter.
      (d)   Determination of non-compliance with applicable codes, ordinances,
and the standards in this division shall be communicated to the applicant in
writing and the application for the permit shall be considered denied; unless,
within ten days of the date of such notice, the applicant submits revised plans
and/or information with which the Zoning Administrator is able to determine
compliance.
      (e)   Unresolved disputes as to administrative application of the
requirements of this section shall be subject to appeal as outlined in §
1007.018.
   (4)   Standards. All uses, events, or activities allowed by administrative
permit shall conform to the applicable standards outlined in the zoning
district in which such use, event or activity is proposed.
   (5)   Administration and enforcement.
      (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record of applications and
administrative permits or approvals.
      (b)   A copy of all administrative permits issued shall be forwarded to
appropriate staff as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (c)   Enforcement of the provisions of this section shall be in
accordance with §
1007.023. Violation of an issued permit or of the provisions of this section
also shall be grounds for denial of future permit applications.
§ 1007.020 SITE AND BUILDING PLAN REVIEW.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish site plan review
procedures and provides regulations pertaining to the enforcement of site
design standards consistent with the requirements of this chapter. All site and
building plans for multiple family, commercial, industrial or public/semi-
public uses shall require review and approval by the Community Development
Department. Relocated structures shall also require a site and building plan
review as required by §
1007.055.
   (2)   Submittal requirements. An application for a site and building plan
review shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator and shall be accompanied
with the following information:
      (a)   Proof of title and contract/purchase agreement and property owner
signature on the application form when applicable.
      (b)   Certificate of survey prepared by a licensed land surveyor
identifying the following:
         1.   Scale (engineering only) of at least one inch equals 100 feet.
         2.   North point indication.
         3.   Existing boundaries with lot dimension and lot area.
         4.   Existing buildings, structures and improvements within 100 feet
of the exterior boundaries of the subject property.
         5.   Easements of record.
         6.   Delineated wetland boundary.
         7.   OHWL of any lakes or DNR waters within 100 feet of property.
         8.   FEMA floodplain boundary and Flood Insurance Study (FIS) base
flood elevation (BFE) determination.
         9.   All encroachments.
         10.   Legal description.
      (c)   Site plan prepared by a licensed professional using the current
certificate of survey as a base depicting the following:
         1.   Name of project or development.
         2.   Name and address of developer and/or owner.
         3.   Name and address of engineer/architect/designer.
         4.   Date of plan preparation and dates of any subsequent revisions.
         5.   All proposed improvements, including:
            a.   Required and proposed setbacks.
            b.   Location, setback and dimensions of all proposed buildings and
structures.
            c.   Location of all adjacent buildings and structures within 100
feet of the exterior boundaries of the subject property.
            d.   Location, number, dimensions of all proposed parking spaces,
loading areas and drive aisles, with curbing shown.
            e.   Location, width and setbacks of all proposed street accesses
and driveways.
            f.   Location, width and setbacks of all proposed sidewalks,
walkways and trails.
            g.   Location and type of all proposed lighting, including fixture
details.
            h.   Provisions for storage and disposal of waste, garbage and
recyclables, including details for enclosing and screening exterior containers.
         6.   Calculations for impervious/pervious surfaces.
      (d)   Grading plan prepared by a licensed engineer using the current
certificate of survey as a base depicting the following:
         1.   Existing contours at two-foot intervals.
         2.   Proposed grade elevations at two-foot maximum intervals.
         3.   Drainage plan, including the configuration of drainage areas and
calculations.
         4.   Spot elevations and drainage arrows.
         5.   Surface water ponding and treatment areas.
         6.   Erosion control measures.
         7.   Wetland replacement plan (when applicable).
         8.   Soil borings.
         9.   Drainage calculations for two-, ten-, and 100-year storm events.
         10.   Delineated wetland boundary, to include OHWL of any lakes or DNR
waters.
         11.   Date of plan preparation and dates of any subsequent revisions.
      (e)   Tree survey in accordance with §
1007.049(12).
      (f)   Tree preservation plan in accordance with
1007.049(13).
      (g)   Landscaping plan prepared by a licensed landscape architect or
licensed engineer using the current certificate of survey as a base depicting
the following:
         1.   Planting schedule including:
            a.   Symbols.
            b.   Quantities.
            c.   Common and botanical names.
            d.   Sizes of plant materials.
            e.   Root specification (bare root, balled/burlapped, potted,
etc.).
            f.   Special installation instructions.
         2.   Planting detail (show all species to scale at normal mature crown
diameter or spread for local hardiness zone).
         3.   Typical sections with details of fences, tie walls, planter
boxes, tot lots, picnic areas and the like.
         4.   Typical sections with details of landscape islands, planter beds,
and foundation plantings with identification of materials to be used.
         5.   Delineation of both sodded and seeded areas with respective areas
measured in square feet.
         6.   Coverage plan for underground irrigation systems, if any.
         7.   Other existing or proposed conditions that could be anticipated
to affect landscaping.
         8.   Date of plan preparation and dates of any subsequent revisions.
         9.   Calculations table showing how required landscaping standards
have been met as follows:
            a.   Canopy coverage.
               i.   Total area of vehicular hardscape.
               ii.   Required area of coverage.
               iii.   Quantity and value of all trees proposed.
            b.   Foundation landscape.
               i.   Linear footage of building.
               ii.   Total number of trees and shrubs required.
               iii.   Quantity of trees and shrubs proposed.
            c.   Open area landscape.
               i.   Total square footage of open area.
               ii.   Total numbers of trees and shrubs required.
               iii.   Quantity of trees and shrubs proposed.
            d.   Boulevard trees.
               i.   Linear feet of street frontage or number of lot frontages
as applicable.
               ii.   Number of trees required.
      (h)   Photometric lighting plan, to include fixture details/cut sheets/
drawings. Date of plan preparation and dates of any subsequent revisions.
      (i)   Architectural plans prepared by a licensed architect.
         1.   Date of plan preparation and dates of any subsequent revisions.
         2.   Architectural elevations, in color, of all principal and
accessory buildings and structures (type, color, and materials used in all
exterior surfaces).
         3.   Typical floor plan and typical room plan drawn to scale with a
summary of square footage by use or activity.
      (j)   Utility plan prepared by a licensed engineer.
         1.   Location of hydrants, valves, and manholes, if any.
         2.   Location, sizing, and type of water and sewer system mains, and
proposed service connections, hydrants, valves, and manholes; or,
         3.   Location and size of proposed primary and secondary on-site
treatment systems, when allowed.
         4.   Storm sewer, catch basins, invert elevation, type of castings,
and type of materials (refer to Engineering Manual for city standards).
         5.   Date of plan preparations and dates of any subsequent revisions.
      (k)   Other plans and information as may be required by the Zoning
Administrator which may include (but not be limited to) the following:
         1.   Location, type and size (area and height) of all signs to be
erected upon the subject property.
         2.   Vicinity map showing the subject property in relation to nearby
highways or major street intersections.
         3.   Sound source control plan.
         4.   Fire protection plan.
         5.   Proposed protective covenants or private restrictions.
         6.   Where landscaping or man-made materials are used to provide
screening from adjacent properties, a cross section shall be provided showing
the perspective of the site from neighboring properties at the lot line
elevation.
         7.   Written narrative describing proposed development.
         8.   Cost estimates for all on-site improvements.
         9.   Copies of RCWD, VLAWMO, FEMA or other applications made to other
government agencies as applicable.
      (l)   For applications for new communication towers, the application must
include information to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of §
1007.062, including but not limited to:
         1.   Demonstration that a significant gap in coverage exists that
would be resolved by the proposed location and that adequate service cannot be
provided utilizing existing structures within a two-mile search radius of the
proposed site.
         2.   Structural design information to ensure compliance with
manufacturer specifications and to ensure the tower can accommodate additional
antennas (co-location).
         3.   Authorization from the property owner if different from
applicant.
         4.   Lease or agreement requiring removal of the tower and facilities
after cessation of use.
         5.   Copies of applicable federal, state, and local licenses, permits,
and approvals.
   (3)   Procedure. An application for site and building plan review shall be
approved or denied within 60 days of the date of its official complete
submission pursuant to M. S. § 15.99 unless extended pursuant to statute or a
time waiver is granted by the applicant. Additional city requirements for site
and building plan review are as follows:
      (a)   The property owner or their agent shall file with the Zoning
Administrator a completed application form together with the required
submittals and a fee as required in §
1007.000(8).
      (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall forward copies of the application
and site and building plans to the appropriate staff, consultants and
governmental agencies for review and recommendation. The Community Development
Department shall perform a review and approve or deny the application. The
Community Development Department may also suggest such conditions as they deem
necessary to the approval of the site and building plans.
      (c)   The applicant may appeal any denial or decision by the Department
according to §
1007.018.
      (d)   No application for a site and building plan review shall be
resubmitted for a period of 12 months from the date of said order of denial.
      (e)   The Community Development Department shall provide to the City
Council reports summarizing submitted site and building plan applications and
outcomes regarding approval or denial as they occur.
   (4)   Performance standards. Plans which fail to meet the following criteria
shall not be approved.
      (a)   The proposed development application must be consistent with the
policies and recommendations of the Lino Lakes Comprehensive Plan.
      (b)   The proposed development application is compatible with present and
future land uses of the area.
      (c)   The proposed development application conforms to performance
standards herein and other applicable city codes.
      (d)   Traffic generated by a proposed development application is within
the capabilities of the city when:
         1.   If the existing level of service (LOS) outside of the proposed
development is A or B, traffic generated by a proposed development will not
degrade the level of service more than one grade.
         2.   If the existing LOS outside of the proposed development is C,
traffic generated by a proposed development will not degrade the level of
service below C.
         3.   If the existing LOS outside of the proposed development is D,
traffic generated by a proposed development will not degrade the level of
service below D.
         4.   The existing LOS must be D or better for all streets and
intersections providing access to the proposed development. If the existing
level of service is E or F, the developer must provide, as part of the proposed
project, improvements needed to ensure a level of service D or better.
         5.   Existing roads and intersections providing access to the proposed
development must have the structural capacity to accommodate projected traffic
from the proposed development or the developer will pay to correct any
structural deficiencies.
         6.   The traffic generated from a proposed development shall not
require city street improvements that are inconsistent with the Lino Lakes
Capital Improvement Plan. However, the city may, at its discretion, consider
developer-financed improvements to correct any street deficiencies.
         7.   The LOS requirements in divisions 1. to 4. above do not apply to
the I-35W/Lake Drive or I-35E/Main St. interchanges. At city discretion,
interchange impacts must be evaluated in conjunction with Anoka County and the
Minnesota Dept. of Transportation, and a plan must be prepared to determine
improvements needed to resolve deficiencies. This plan must determine traffic
generated by the proposed development project, how this traffic contributes to
the total traffic, and the time frame of the improvements. The plan also must
examine financing options, including project contribution and cost sharing
among other jurisdictions and other properties that contribute to traffic at
the interchange.
      (e)   The proposed development shall be served with adequate and safe
water supply.
      (f)   The proposed development shall be served with an adequate or safe
sanitary sewer system.
      (g)   The proposed development shall not result in the premature
expenditures of city funds on capital improvements necessary to accommodate the
proposed development.
      (h)   Fire prevention and fighting equipment acceptable to the Board of
Fire Underwriters and City Council shall be readily available when any activity
involving the handling or storage of flammable or explosive materials is
carried on.
   (5)   Expiration. Activities authorized by site and building plan approval
shall be initiated within six months. The time limits established in this
division (5) may be extended by the Zoning Administrator.
   (6)   Site improvement performance agreement and financial guarantee.
Following the approval of the site plan required by this section where no
public improvements are proposed and before issuance of a building permit, the
applicant, as determined to be necessary by the Zoning Administrator, shall
guarantee to the city the completion of all improvements as shown on the
approved site plan and as required by the site plan approval. This guarantee
shall be made by means of a site improvement performance agreement and a
financial guarantee as provided below:
      (a)   The applicant shall execute the site improvement performance
agreement on forms provided by the city. The agreement shall be approved as to
form and content by the City Attorney and shall define the required work and
reflect the terms of this chapter as to the required guarantee for the
performance of the work by the applicant.
      (b)   The required work includes, but is not limited to private exterior
amenities such as landscaping, private streets, parking areas, recreation
fields, drainage systems, stormwater basins, sanitary sewer systems, water
mains, wetland mitigation, wetland buffers, erosion control, curbing, fences
and screening, and other similar facilities. The required work shall also
include all aspects of a tree preservation plan, if applicable.
      (c)   A financial guarantee shall be submitted with the executed site
performance agreement as provided herein:
         1.   Financial guarantees acceptable to the city include cash escrow;
an irrevocable letter of credit; or other financial instruments which provide
equivalent assurance to the city and which are approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
         2.   The term of the financial guarantee shall be for the life of the
site improvement performance agreement, and it shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to ensure that a submitted financial guarantee shall continue in
full force and effect until the Zoning Administrator shall have approved and
accepted all of the work undertaken to be done and shall thereby have released
the guarantee or reduced the amount of the guarantee as provided in this
chapter.
         3.   When any instrument submitted as a financial guarantee contains a
provision for an automatic expiration date, after which the instrument may not
be drawn upon, notwithstanding the status of the site performance agreement or
of the required work, the expiration date shall be October 31; further, it
shall be the responsibility of the applicant to notify the city in writing, by
certified mail, at least 60 days in advance of the expiration date of the
intention to renew the instrument or to not renew the instrument. If the
instrument is to be renewed, a written notice of extension shall be provided 30
days prior to the expiration date; if the instrument is not to be renewed, and
has not been released by the Zoning Administrator, another acceptable financial
guarantee in the appropriate amount shall be submitted at least 30 days prior
to the expiration. The term of any extension shall be approved by the Zoning
Administrator. Upon receipt of an acceptable substitute financial guarantee,
the Zoning Administrator may release the original guarantee.
         4.   The amount of the financial guarantee shall be established by the
Zoning Administrator based upon an itemized estimate of the cost of all
required work as provided by the applicant. A cash escrow or irrevocable letter
of credit shall be in the amount of 35% for private improvements and 125% for
public improvements of the approved estimated cost. The amount of any other
approved financial instrument shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator.
         5.   At the option of the city, the applicant may submit a separate
financial guarantee for that portion of the required work consisting solely of
landscaping improvements with another financial guarantee for all other
exterior amenities and improvements which comprise the work. All trees shall be
warranted to be alive, of good quality, and disease free for 12 months from the
time of planting. Any subsequent replacement shall be warranted for 12 months
from the time of planting.
      (d)   The time allowed for completion of the required improvements shall
be set out in the site improvement performance agreement. The agreement and the
financial guarantee shall provide for forfeiture to the city to cure a default
or reimburse the city the cost of enforcement measures. As various portions of
such required work are completed by the applicant, are in compliance with city
requirements, and are approved by the city, the Zoning Administrator may
release such portion of the financial guarantee as is attributable to such
completed work. Landscaping improvements shall not be deemed complete until the
city has verified survivability of all required plantings through one “winter
season” which is defined for the purpose of this section as the period October
31 through April 30.
      (e)   The applicant shall notify the Zoning Administrator in writing when
all or a portion of the required improvements have been completed in accordance
with the approved plan and may be inspected. Upon receipt of such notice, the
Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the inspection of the
improvements to determine that the useful life of all work performed meets the
standards for the particular industry, profession, or material used in the
performance of the work. Any required work failing to meet such standards shall
not be deemed to be complete and the applicant shall be notified in writing as
to required corrections. Upon determination that the work has been completed,
including the winter season survivability of all landscape improvements, a
notice of the date of actual completion shall be given to the applicant and
appropriate action, to release or to reduce the amount of the financial
guarantee shall be taken by the Zoning Administrator.
§ 1007.021 DUTIES OF CITY STAFF.
   The offices of the Zoning Administrator and Building Official are hereby
established; official(s) shall be appointed by the government body.
   (1)   Duties of the Zoning Administrator. The Community Development Director
or designee shall be the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall
enforce the provisions of this chapter as provided herein; in addition to the
duties and powers of the Zoning Administrator under this chapter, express or
implied, the Zoning Administrator shall have the duty and power to:
      (a)   Issue permits required by this chapter.
      (b)   Maintain all records necessary for the enforcement of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, all data, maps, amendments, rezonings, and
conditional use permits, variances, appeal notices, certificates of occupancy,
and applications thereof, nonconforming uses.
      (c)   Receive, file and forward all appeals, notices, applications for
variances, conditional use permits, certificates of occupancy, or other matters
to the appropriate officials or boards.
      (d)   Serve as ex-officio, non-voting member of the Planning and Zoning
Board.
      (e)   Perform all duties set forth in job description.
   (2)   Duties of the Building Official. The Building Official shall enforce
the provisions of this chapter as provided herein; in addition to the duties
and powers of the Building Official under this chapter, express or implied, the
Building Official shall have the duty and power to:
      (a)   Conduct inspections of land, buildings or structures at reasonable
times, to determine compliance with and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      (b)   Perform annual and/or periodic review of all conditional use
permits.
      (c)   Institute in the name of the city any appropriate actions or
proceedings to enforce this chapter.
      (d)   Perform all duties set forth in job description.
§ 1007.022 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (1)   No person may change the use of any land except for construction of
essential services and transmission lines or occupy or utilize a new
structurally altered building (except single family detached dwellings or their
accessory buildings in any district) or change the use of any building after
the effective date of this chapter unless he has first obtained a certificate
of occupancy.
   (2)   Application for a certificate of occupancy for a new building or for
an existing building which has been so altered or the reuse of any land may be
filed with the Building Official any time after the application for a building
permit. The certificate of occupancy shall be issued within ten days after the
construction or alteration of such building or part thereof or site has been
completed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter and building code.
Pending the issuance of said certificate, a temporary certificate of occupancy
may be issued, subject to the provisions of the building code and zoning
ordinance for a period not to exceed 12 months during the completion of the
erection or the alteration of such a building. The temporary certificate shall
not be construed as in any way altering the respective rights, duties or
obligations of the owners or of the community relating to the use or occupancy
of the premises or any other matter, except under such restrictions and
provisions as will adequately ensure the safety of the occupants. The use of
any structure for which a building permit is required or the use of any land
shall be considered a violation of this chapter unless a certificate of
occupancy has been issued.
   (3)   Application for a certificate of occupancy for a new use of land shall
be made to the Building Official before any such land shall be so used. Such
certificate of occupancy shall be issued within ten days after this application
if the use is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (4)   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file with
the city.
§ 1007.023 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (1)   Administration and enforcement.
      (a)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning
Administrator who is appointed by the City Council. The Zoning Administrator
may institute in the name of the City of Lino Lakes any appropriate actions or
proceedings against a violator as provided by statute, ordinance, or code.
      (b)   If the provisions of this chapter are being violated, the city
shall notify, in writing, the person responsible for such violations,
indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to
correct it. The city shall order discontinuance of illegal use of land,
buildings or structures; removal of illegal buildings or structures or of
additions, alterations or structural changes thereto; discontinuance of any
illegal work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this
section to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
   (2)   Penalties, violations, and enforcement. In addition to the remedies
set out in division (b) above, the city may enforce any provisions of this
chapter by mandamus, injunction, or any other appropriate remedy in any court
of competent jurisdiction.
§ 1007.024 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD).
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide a district that
grants flexibility from certain zoning regulations in order to achieve public
benefits that may not otherwise be obtained under standard zoning regulations.
It is further intended that PUDs are to be characterized by central management,
integrated planning and architecture, a higher level of urban amenities,
preservation of natural open space, and more economical efficient use of land.
   (2)   The PUD, by allowing deviation from the strict provisions of this
chapter related to setbacks, heights, lot area, width and depths, yards, etc.,
may be considered by the city when it would result in one or more of the
following public benefits:
      (a)   Implementation of a master plan consistent with the Planning
District objectives of the Comprehensive Plan.
      (b)   Innovations in development that address growing demands for all
styles of economic expansion, greater variety in lot size, configuration, home
type, design, enhanced architectural standards, and siting of structures
through the conservation and more efficient use of land in such developments.
      (c)   Preservation and enhancement of desirable site characteristics such
as wildlife habitat, unique natural resources, existing vegetation, natural
topography, geologic features and reduction of negative impacts on the
environment.
      (d)   Creative use of land and related physical development which allows
a phased and orderly transition of varying land uses in close proximity to each
other.
      (e)   Efficient use of land resulting in smaller networks of utilities
and streets thereby lowering development costs and public investments.
      (f)   Mix of land use types.
      (g)   Provision of a housing type or target housing price that is
desirable to the city.
      (h)   Other public benefits and values as recognized in the city's
Comprehensive Plan.
   (3)   All permitted uses, permitted accessory uses, conditional uses, and
uses allowed by administrative permit in all zoning districts shall be
potentially allowable uses within a PUD district, provided they would be
allowable on the site under the city's Comprehensive Plan.
   (4)   The standards outlined in the following city code sections serve as
development guidelines within PUDs:
   Table 1
PUD Land Use Development Standards
PUD Land Use                     Development Standards
                                 R-1, §
                                 1007.110
Low-Density Residential          R-1X, §
                                 1007.111
                                 R-2, §
                                 1007.112
Low-Density Mixed Residential    R-1, §
                                 1007.110
                                R-2, §
                                 1007.112

                                 R-2, §
Medium-Density Residential       1007.112
                                 R-3, §
                                 1007.113
                                 R-4, §
High-Density Residential         1007.114
                                 R-6, §
                                 1007.116
Planned Residential / Commercial R-5, §
                                 1007.115
                                 R-2, §
                                 1007.112
                                 R-3, §
                                 1007.113
Office Residential               NB, §
                                 1007.130
                                 LB, §
                                 1007.131
                                 GB, §
                                 1007.132
                                 R-3, §
                                 1007.113
                                 R-4, §
Signature Gateway                1007.114
                                 NB, §
                                 1007.130
                                 GB, §
                                 1007.132
                                 NB, §
                                 1007.130
Commercial                       LB, §
                                 1007.131
                                 GB, §
                                 1007.132
                                 R-4, §
Town Center                      1007.114
                                 GB, §
                                 1007.132
Business Campus                  BC, §
                                 1007.142
                                 LI, §
Industrial                       1007.140
                                 GI, §
                                 1007.141
 
      (a)   The lot and yard standards, impervious surface coverage, building
requirements and height regulations of the closest conventional zoning district
shall be used as the regulations, but may be departed from to accomplish the
purposes described in division (2) above of this section.
      (b)   The standards outlined in the general provisions section of the
zoning ordinance serve as guidelines, but may be departed from to accomplish
the purposes described in §
1007.024(2).
      (c)   The aforementioned are guidelines only and not development
standards.
   (5)   General requirements for a Planned Unit Development (PUD).
      (a)   Public or common open space at least sufficient to meet the minimum
requirements established in this ordinance and such complementary structures
and improvements as are necessary and appropriate for the benefit and enjoyment
of the residents of the PUD shall be provided within the area of the PUD.
      (b)   If a PUD includes provision of affordable housing, a specific
housing type, or target housing price, details associated with the housing -
including number of units, unit size, and price - shall be documented in a
legally binding agreement approved by the city and recorded against the
properties within the PUD.
      (c)   If a PUD includes preservation of natural habitat, those habitats
shall be permanently protected through a conservation easement or other legally
binding agreement approved by the city and recorded against the properties
within the PUD.
      (d)   A common or homeowner's association shall be established where
appropriate to ensure on-going maintenance of infrastructure and public spaces,
required restoration and management of natural areas, or other actions and
activities specific to the PUD.
      (e)   A residential PUD may include a variety of residential dwelling
units, including, but not limited to single family and multifamily units as
long as it complies with the density requirements. A non-residential PUD may
include a variety of commercial and/or industrial uses. A PUD may also include
a mix of residential and non-residential uses.
      (f)   Recreational open space or trail corridors intended as public parks
or public trails shall be dedicated to the city or granted through an easement.
Management and maintenance of the public recreational areas shall be the
responsibility of the city.
      (g)   Street, private.
         1.   Private streets within the project shall have an improved surface
to 26 feet or more in width and shall be so designed as to permit the city
emergency vehicles to provide protection to each building.
         2.   No portion of the required private street system shall be used in
calculating required off-street parking space or be used for parking.
      (h)   As part of the PUD final plan/final plat approval, a development
agreement and planned unit development agreement shall be prepared by the city.
Prior to issuance of permits, the applicant, builder, or developer shall
execute the agreement. The agreement shall detail all use restrictions and
required on and off-site improvements conditional to the PUD rezoning.
   (6)   Urban Residential Planned Unit Development requirements.
      (a)   Urban residential PUDs shall be applied only to residential zoning
districts served by municipal sanitary sewer and water.
      (b)   The maximum allowable density within an urban residential PUD shall
be consistent with the density directives of the Comprehensive Plan.
      (c)   Open space performance standards.
         1.   A minimum of 50% of the gross townhome land area shall be
reserved as common open space for townhomes.
         2.   Each open space lot or outlot shall be classified as natural
habitat, neighborhood recreation, or trail corridor open space, and shall
conform to the type of use, location criteria, and deed restrictions of that
classification, as specified in §
1001.099 of the Lino Lakes Subdivision Ordinance.
         3.   Common open space shall provide a unified landscape for the use
and enjoyment of the neighborhood community and/or the general public.
         4.   Open space shall be exclusive of unit lots and driveways.
         5.   Street rights-of-way, parking lots, and driveways shall be
designed to maximize tree preservation, natural habitat, and wetland
protection.
         6.   All open space shall be platted as lots or outlots held as open
space in perpetuity. Outlots designated as public trail corridors shall be
conveyed by fee title or by easement.
      (d)   Neighborhood performance standards.
         1.   To provide an identity and create a cohesive development pattern,
residential units/buildings shall be oriented toward an identifiable feature
which they have in common. Such identity may be accomplished by one or more of
the following features:
            a.   The neighborhood lots may be arranged such that a majority of
the principal structures take visual advantage of a field, wetland, woods,
lake, stream, or other open space which could be described as a view shed.
            b.   The neighborhood lots may be arranged such that a majority of
the principal structure will take visual advantage of a green, playground, ball
field, rock outcropping, stand of trees, church, school, or other physical
feature unique to that particular neighborhood.
            c.   The neighborhood lots may be arranged such that the principal
structures face a street space enhanced with landscaping, street trees,
landscaped medians, sidewalks, trails, or other landscaping techniques
appropriate to the city's street design standards.
      (e)   Yards.
         1.   The front, rear and side yard restrictions at the periphery of
the PUD site shall be the same as imposed in the respective base districts.
         2.   Buildings shall maintain a minimum separation of ten feet.
   (7)   Commercial or Industrial Planned Unit Development requirements.
      (a)   Commercial or Industrial PUDs shall be applied only to commercial
or industrial zoning districts served by municipal sanitary sewer and water.
      (b)   Open space performance standards.
         1.   The PUD design shall result in greater landscaped pervious area
than the base zoning district standard.
         2.   The PUD site design shall result in the protection of important
natural features (e.g., wetlands, significant trees, water courses, slopes over
12%).
         3.   The PUD design shall include extensive landscaping with an
emphasis on streetscape, site entrances, and the perimeter of the building.
      (c)   Commercial and industrial buildings shall comply with design
standards of §
1007.043(2)(d). A PUD shall consist of a harmonious arrangement and selection
of land uses in groupings of buildings that are planned and designed as an
integrated unit. The integrated design shall include elements such as building
orientation and materials, utilities, parking areas, traffic and pedestrian
circulation, and open spaces.
   (8)   Mixed Residential, Commercial and/or Industrial Planned Unit
Development requirements. PUD's including a mix of residential, commercial,
and/or industrial uses shall follow the applicable provisions of divisions (6)
and (7) above.
   (9)   Procedure for processing a planned unit development.
      (a)   Prior to submitting a PUD application, the applicant shall meet
with the Community Development Department to generally describe the proposed
PUD. The primary purpose of the conference is to provide the applicant with an
opportunity to gather information and obtain guidance as to the general
suitability of the proposal and its conformity to the provisions of this
chapter before incurring substantial expense in the preparation of plans,
surveys and other data.
      (b)   PUD concept plan application.
         1.   The PUD concept plan provides an opportunity for the applicant to
submit an application and plan to the city showing the basic intent and the
general nature of the entire development before incurring substantial cost. The
evaluation of the concept plan shall include but not be limited to the
following criteria:
            a.   Overall maximum PUD density range.
            b.   General location of major streets and pedestrian ways.
            c.   General location and extent of public and common open space.
            d.   General location of residential and non-residential land uses
with approximate type and intensities of development.
            e.   A staging and time schedule of development.
            f.   Other special criteria for development.
         2.   PUD concept plan submission information.
            a.   Information for concept plan as specified in §
1001.026.
            b.   An aerial photograph at a scale of at least one inch equals
100 feet, depicting the proposed development of the subject property and all
land within 500 feet and showing the precise location of existing streets.
            c.   Schematic drawing of the proposed PUD including, but not
limited to, the general location of major street and pedestrian ways, public
and common open space, residential and other land uses.
            d.   An estimate of the total number of dwelling and/or other units
and a tabulation of the following land uses expressed in acres and as a percent
of the total project area:
               i.   Area devoted to residential and non-residential uses.
               ii.   Area devoted to residential use by building or structure
or use type.
               iii.   Area devoted to common open space.
               iv.   Area devoted to public open space.
               v.   Area devoted to streets.
               vi.   Area, and potential floor area, devoted to commercial
uses.
               vii.   Area, and potential floor area, devoted to industrial or
office uses.
            e.   If the PUD will be developed in different phases, the
applicant shall submit a phasing plan for construction of the various elements
of the entire PUD.
            f.   If the PUD includes provisions for public or common open space
or service facilities, a statement describing the provision that is to be made
for the care and maintenance of such open space or service facilities.
         3.   The Community Development Department shall forward the PUD
Concept Plan submission to the city’s advisory boards and City Council for
their informal review and comment on the project's consistency with the City's
Comprehensive Plan and development regulations at regularly scheduled meetings.
The Planning and Zoning Board shall recommend to the City Council whether the
applicant shall hold a neighborhood meeting prior to submission of a PUD
Preliminary Plan. The City Council shall make the final determination if a
neighborhood meeting is required.
      (c)   PUD preliminary plan application.
         1.   The purpose of the PUD preliminary plan is to provide a master
plan of the entire development upon which the Planning and Zoning Board will
base its recommendation to the City Council. The PUD Preliminary Plan serves as
a complete and permanent public record of the entire PUD and the manner in
which it is to be developed.
         2.   Following review of the PUD concept plan, the applicant shall
file with the Community Development Department a PUD preliminary plan, rezoning
and preliminary plat applications. The PUD preliminary plan shall refine the
PUD concept plan.
         3.   The Community Development Department shall forward the PUD
preliminary plan submission to the city’s advisory boards and City Council for
their consideration at regularly scheduled meetings where the related rezoning
and preliminary plat applications are being considered.
         4.   The evaluation of the proposed PUD preliminary plan shall include
but not be limited to the following criteria:
            a.   The interior circulation plan plus access from and onto public
rights-of-way does not create congestion or dangers and is adequate for the
safety of the project residents and the general public.
            b.   A sufficient amount of useable open space is provided.
            c.   The architectural design of the project is compatible with the
surrounding area.
            d.   The development is in compliance with the requirements of the
Lino Lakes City Code except where modified by the PUD.
         5.   The PUD Preliminary Plan submission shall include but not be
limited to:
            a.   Summary from the neighborhood meeting if a meeting was
required by the City Council.
            b.   Information for site and building review as specified in §
1007.020 of this chapter.
            c.   Information for preliminary plat as specified in §
1001.041 of this title.
            d.   Location, designation and total area of all common open space.
            e.   Location, designation and total area proposed to be conveyed
or dedicated for public open space, including parks, playgrounds, school sites
and recreational facilities.
            f.   A tabulation of all land uses expressed in square footage and
as a percent of the total project area.
            g.   Identification of existing natural resource areas and the
proposed method for protection and restoration of these areas.
            h.   A written statement generally describing the proposed PUD, the
market which it is intended to serve, its relationship to the city's
Comprehensive Plan and how it is to be designed, arranged and operated.
            i.   Where deemed necessary, a market feasibility study including
an analysis of the proposals economic impact on the city.
            j.   A statement summarizing all changes which have been made in
any document, plan data or information previously submitted, together with
revised copies of any such document, plan or data.
            k.   Such other information, either required as part of the concept
plan review or as the Planning and Zoning Board, Community Development
Department or City Council shall find necessary to a full consideration of the
entire proposed PUD or any stage thereof.
         6.   Zoning enactment. A rezoning of a parcel of land to PUD shall not
become effective until such time as specified in §
1007.015 (h).
         7.   A complete application for PUD Final Plan shall be submitted no
later than one year after the date of approval of the PUD preliminary plan, or
a time as provided in the developer's agreement. Otherwise, the PUD preliminary
plan approval shall be considered void, unless an extension, requested in
writing and for good cause, is granted by the City Council. The City Council
may approve such an extension after the deadline date passes.
      (d)   PUD final plan application.
         1.   The PUD final plan is to serve as a complete, and permanent
public record of a specific stage or phase of the PUD preliminary plan and the
manner in which that stage is to be developed. It shall incorporate all prior
approved plans and all approved modifications thereof resulting from the PUD
process. It shall serve in conjunction with other provisions of the City Code
as the land use regulation applicable to the PUD.
         2.   Upon approval of the PUD preliminary plan and within the time
established, the applicant shall file with the Community Development Department
an application and PUD final plan consisting of the information and submissions
required by this Code for the entire PUD or for one or more stages. The PUD
final plan shall conform to the PUD preliminary plan in all respects, and shall
be integrated as a coherent statement of the entire plan. Appropriate cross-
referencing and incorporation of recorded documents may be utilized.
         3.   After review of a PUD concept plan and approval of a PUD
preliminary plan, the applicant will submit the following material for review
by the city staff prior to issuance of a building permit:
            a.   A revised PUD preliminary plan and preliminary plat of the
entire PUD incorporating all changes and conditions that were required. This
revised preliminary plat will provide the historical record of the subdivision
approval by which subsequent final plats shall be considered.
            b.   Information for final plat as specified in
1001.056 of this code.
            c.   Final architectural elevations, in color, of all principal and
accessory buildings and structures (type, color, and materials used in all
exterior surfaces). Typical floor plan and typical room plan drawn to scale
with a summary of square footage by use or activity.
            d.   Final engineering plans and specifications for streets,
drainage, utilities and other public improvements
            e.   Any other plans, agreements, or specifications necessary for
the city staff to review the proposed construction.
         4.   The Community Development Department shall forward the PUD final
plan and final plat submission to the City Council for their consideration at a
regularly scheduled meeting.
         5.   The terms of the PUD as approved by the City Council shall be
embodied in a development agreement and planned unit development agreement, and
such other documents as the city shall deem necessary or desirable. The
development and PUD agreement and any appropriate resolution of the City
Council shall be recorded with Anoka County at the expense of the applicant. At
the election of the City, filing of the PUD preliminary plan may be delayed
until the PUD final plan is filed. Where the PUD preliminary plan is denied,
Council action shall be by written resolution setting forth its findings and
conclusions in support of its action.
            a.   Within one year after the approval of a PUD final plan,
construction shall commence in accordance with such approved plan. Failure to
commence construction within such period shall automatically render void, all
approvals of the PUD plan unless an extension, requested in writing, is granted
by the City Council. The City Council may approve such an extension after the
deadline date passes. In such case the area encompassed within the PUD shall
thereafter be subject to those provisions of the Zoning Code, and other code
provisions, applicable in the district in which it is located.
      (e)   Plan modification/amendment of a Planned Unit Development.
         1.   Plan modifications/amendments qualifying as minor may be approved
by the Community Development Director provided the changes do not involve the
following:
            a.   Increase in floor area of structure or number of dwelling
units.
            b.   Change in exterior building material.
            c.   Alteration of any condition attached or modification to the
PUD final plan made by the City Council.
         2.   Modifications not qualifying as minor shall be considered a
substantial departure. Substantial departures from the approved plans will
require an amendment to the PUD and shall follow the same review procedure as a
PUD preliminary plan.
§ 1007.025 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW.
   (1)   When an environmental assessment worksheet (EAW), alternative urban
areawide review (AUAR), or environmental impact statement (EIS) is required or
otherwise ordered or submitted, the applicable review procedures shall be as
set forth in the Minnesota Environmental Quality Board regulations for the
Environmental Review Program, as authorized by Minnesota Statutes and specified
in Minnesota Rules 4410.
   (2)   An EAW, AUAR, or EIS application, together with the completed data
portions of the environmental document, shall be accompanied by a fee and cash
escrow as set forth in ordinance. Costs of city time and materials expended in
reviewing and processing the application shall be charged against the cash
escrow account and credited to the city. If, at any time, the balance in the
cash escrow account is depleted to less than 10% of the originally required
cash escrow amount, the project proposer shall deposit additional funds in the
cash escrow account as determined by the Zoning Administrator. Any balance
remaining in the cash escrow account upon completion of the process shall be
returned to the project proposer after all claims and charges thereto have been
deducted.
   (3)   Upon completion of the environmental document for distribution and the
start of the comment period, the Zoning Administrator shall provide mailed
notice of the availability of the environmental document to all property owners
within 600 feet of the boundaries of the property that is the subject of the
environmental document. Failure of a property owner to receive notice shall not
invalidate any such proceedings as set forth in this chapter.
   (4)   Following the required comment period, the city shall prepare the
final document with a response to comments. The Environmental Board shall
review the final document and provide its recommendations to the City Council.
The City Council shall act on the document as required by Minnesota Rules 4410.
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1007.040 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter of the Zoning Ordinance is to establish
general development performance standards. These standards are intended and
designed to assure compatibility of uses; to prevent urban blight,
deterioration and decay; and to enhance the health, safety and general welfare
of the residents of the community.
§ 1007.041 NON-CONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (1)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to provide for the
regulation of non-conforming buildings, structures and uses and to specify
those requirements, circumstances, and conditions under which non-conforming
buildings, structures and uses will be operated and maintained. The Zoning
Ordinance establishes separate districts, each of which is an appropriate area
for the location of uses which are permitted in that district. It is necessary
and consistent with the establishment of these districts that non-conforming
buildings, structures and uses not be permitted to continue without
restriction. Furthermore, it is the intent of this section that all non-
conforming uses shall be eventually brought into conformity.
   (2)   Provisions.
      (a)   Any nonconformity, including the lawful use or occupation of land
or premises existing at the time of the adoption of an additional control under
this chapter, may be continued, including through repair, replacement,
restoration, maintenance, or improvement, but not including expansion, unless:
         1.   The nonconformity or occupancy is discontinued for a period of
more than one year;
or
         2.   Any nonconforming use is destroyed by fire or other peril to the
extent of greater than 50% of its market value, and no building permit has been
applied for within 180 days of when the property is damaged. In this case, the
city may impose reasonable conditions upon a building permit in order to
mitigate any newly created impact on adjacent property.
      (b)   Nonconforming principal structures shall not be expanded, enlarged
or altered in a way which increases their nonconformity, but may be expanded,
enlarged or altered, if the expansion, enlargement or alteration fully conforms
to existing dimension requirements of the zoning and other city ordinances and
regulations. Nonconforming accessory structures which are totally within a
required yard setback area shall not be enlarged or expanded in any way.
Notwithstanding, a nonconforming structure may be reconfigured if, in the
discretion of the city, such reconfiguration would lessen the nonconformity,
abate nuisances, and protect the public health, safety and welfare.
      (c)   All districts exception. Where a pre-existing principal or
accessory structure, including expansion thereof, for which a lot line setback
dimension has been made substandard by eminent domain or other formal public
agency action, such structure shall be considered a legally conforming
structure. All future additions to the structure or use shall meet the current
required setback from the revised property or easement line.
      (d)   Any subsequent use or occupancy of the land or premises shall be a
conforming use or occupancy. The city may, by ordinance, permit an expansion or
impose upon nonconformities reasonable regulations to prevent and abate
nuisances and to protect the public health, welfare, or safety. This
subdivision does not prohibit the city from enforcing an ordinance that applies
to adults-only bookstores, adults-only theaters, or similar adults-only
businesses, as defined by this chapter.
      (e)   A nonconforming use may be changed to lessen the nonconformity of
that use. Thereafter the use may not be so altered as to increase the
nonconformity.
      (f)   Notwithstanding division (a) above, the city shall regulate the
repair, replacement, maintenance, improvement, or expansion of nonconforming
uses and structures in floodplain areas in compliance with
Chapter 1103 of this title.
      (g)   Notwithstanding division (a), a nonconforming single lot of record
located within a shoreland area may be allowed as a building site without
variances from lot size requirements in compliance with
Chapter 1102 of this title.
§ 1007.042 GENERAL PARCEL, LOT AND YARD PROVISIONS.
   (1)   Lot of record. Any lot of record existing at the effective date of
this ordinance may be used for the construction of a structure if it conforms
with the use regulations of the district in which it is located subject to the
following conditions:
      (a)   The lot satisfies all other appropriate provisions of this chapter.
      (b)   The lot has frontage on a full width public right-of-way and an
improved street which has been accepted for maintenance by the City of Lino
Lakes.
      (c)   Any substandard sewered lot of record existing at the effective
date of this chapter and held in separate ownership different from the
ownership of adjoining lots may be used for the construction of a structure
conforming to the use regulations of this chapter, provided its area, width,
and depth meet 70% of the minimum requirements of the zoning district and all
required setbacks can be adhered to.
      (d)   Any substandard unsewered lot of record existing at the effective
date of this chapter and held in separate ownership different from the
ownership of adjoining lots may be used for the construction of a structure
conforming to the use regulations of this chapter subject to the following
conditions:
         1.   The lot was a separate parcel with its own parcel identification
number on the date of the adoption of this chapter.
         2.   It can be demonstrated that the lot can accommodate the proposed
principal structure, onsite well if the public water system is not available,
and an onsite wastewater treatment system including both a primary and
secondary drain field area in compliance with Minn. Rules 7080 and other
applicable requirements.
         3.   All building and site improvements adhere to all required
setbacks.
   (2)   Unsewered lots.
      (a)   Except as provided for in division (1)(d) above, division (2)(b)
below, and §
1007.073, the minimum unsewered lot size within any zoning district is ten
acres.
      (b)   A lot with a minimum area of one acre may be created subject to the
following conditions:
         1.   A habitable single family home has been constructed prior to July
13, 1992.
         2.   The new lot that has a minimum area of one acre contains an
existing habitable home;
         3.   The balance of the property meets the minimum lot size
requirement of the zoning district in which the property lies;
         4.   The new lot that has a minimum area of one acre contains one acre
of contiguous buildable land, not including street right-of-way, electrical
transmission line easements, or pipeline easements;
         5.   Both the one-acre-minimum lot and lots made from the remaining
land shall meet all minimum lot, building, and setback requirements; and
         6.   It can be demonstrated that all unsewered lots can accommodate
the proposed principal structure, onsite well if the public water system is not
available, and an onsite wastewater treatment system including both a primary
and secondary drain field area in compliance with Minn. Rules 7080 and other
applicable requirements.
      (c)   Two family dwellings and multiple-family dwellings are not
allowable uses upon unsewered lots.
      (d)   All development in areas without public sanitary sewer shall be
designed such that the larger non-sewered lots can be subdivided to provide
smaller sewered lots when sewer becomes available in the future. Homes and
accessory buildings shall be located on these lots so as to allow for future
subdivisions.
   (3)   Buildable area.
      (a)   Within zoning districts with a minimum lot size requirement of less
than ten acres, the required minimum lot area shall be contiguous buildable
land, as defined by this chapter, and exclusive of utility transmission
easements.
      (b)   Within zoning districts with a minimum lot size requirement of ten
acres or more, a minimum of 20% of the minimum lot area must be contiguous
buildable land, as defined by this chapter.
   (4)   Building placement and multiple structures.
      (a)   Street obstructions. All buildings shall be so located so that they
will not obstruct future streets which may be constructed by the city in
conformity with existing streets and according to the system and standards
employed by the city.
      (b)   Principal buildings. No more than one principal building shall be
located on a lot except where approved by conditional use permit or planned
unit development.
      (c)   Outlots. Outlots are deemed unbuildable and no building permit
shall be issued for such properties, except that permits for fences may be
issued.
   (5)   Yards and setbacks.
      (a)   Setbacks.
         1.   No setback, yard or other open space shall be reduced in area or
dimension so as to make such setback, yard or other open space less than the
minimum required by this chapter. If the existing setback, yard or other open
space as existing is less than the minimum required, it shall not be further
reduced.
         2.   Front lot line setbacks. Where principal buildings on adjoining
lots existed at the time of adoption of this chapter have a lesser front lot
line setback from that required, the required front lot line setback of a new
structure shall not be less than the average front lot line setback of the
adjoining buildings on each side lot and in no case shall be less than 20 feet.
         3.   Corner lots.
            a.   On corner lots, the narrowest lot line abutting a public
street or street easement that meets minimum lot width requirements shall be
the front lot line. If none of the boundaries abutting a public street or
street easement meet minimum lot width requirements, the widest boundary
abutting a street shall be the front lot line. The lot line opposite and most
distant from the front lot line shall be the rear lot line. The lot line
opposite the other public street or street easement shall be the side lot line.
Setbacks from street right-of-way, rear lot line and side lot line shall then
apply. These setbacks shall apply regardless of which street the building
faces.
            b.   On corner lots, nothing shall be located or allowed to grow to
impede vision between a height of two and one-half and ten feet above the
centerline grades of the intersecting streets within 15 feet of the
intersecting street right-of-way lines. This restriction shall also apply to
the planting of crops and to yard grades that result in elevations that impede
vision within 15 feet of any intersecting street right-of-way lines.
      (b)   Permitted yard encroachments. The following shall not be considered
as encroachments on setback requirements subject to other conditions provided
herein:
         1.   All yards.
            a.   Flag poles, sidewalks, wheelchair ramps, name plate signs,
trees, shrubs, plants, yard lights, mailboxes, floodlights, or other sources of
light illuminating authorized illuminated signs, or light standards for
illuminating yards for safety and security reasons, provided the direct source
of light complies with §
1007.046.
            b.   Posts, flues, belt course, bay windows, leaders, sills,
pilaster, eaves, gutters, awnings, open terraces, open canopies, chimneys,
ornamental features, and open fire escapes extending from the principal
structure provided:
               i.   They do not encroach more than three feet into a required
setback.
               ii.   They do not encroach into a public easement.
            c.   Uncovered porches, decks, balconies, stoops, patios, or
similar features provided:
               i.   The decking shall not extend above the height of the floor
of the ground floor level of the principal structure though railings may be
higher, and
               ii.   The setback shall be five feet from any side or rear lot
line, and
               iii.   The setback shall be 20 feet from any lot line abutting a
street, and
               iv.   The setback shall be one foot from any existing or
proposed driveway, and
               v.   They do not encroach into a public easement.
            d.   In rear yards, the setback for laundry drying equipment,
recreational equipment (non-vehicular), trellises, open arbors, and detached
outdoor living rooms not exceeding 500 square feet shall be five feet from any
side or rear lot line.
            e.   Air conditioning or heating equipment setbacks shall be five
feet from any rear lot line and ten feet from any side lot line.
      (c)   Zero lot line subdivision.
         1.   Townhomes and apartments. If existing townhouses or apartment
units not on separate unit lots are to be subdivided on an individual unit or
condominium basis for owner occupancy, it shall require a planned unit
development according to the provisions of §
1007.024.
         2.   Subdivision of two family or townhouse lots. The subdivision of
base lots containing two family dwellings or townhouses to permit individual
private ownership of a single dwelling within such a structure is acceptable
subject to City Council approval. Approval is further contingent upon the
following requirements:
            a.   Prior to a two family dwelling or a townhouse subdivision, the
base lot must meet all the requirements of the zoning district.
            b.   There shall be no more than one principal structure on a base
lot in all residential districts. The principal structure on a unit lot created
in a two family or townhouse subdivision will be the portion of the attached
dwelling existing or constructed on the platted base lots.
            c.   Permitted accessory uses as defined by the zoning districts
are acceptable provided they meet all the zoning requirements.
            d.   A property maintenance agreement must be arranged by the
applicant and submitted to the City Attorney for their review and approval. The
agreement shall ensure the maintenance and upkeep of the structure including
but not limited to siding, roofing (type and color), fencing, driveways,
maintenance, etc. and the lots to meet minimum city standards. The agreement
shall be recorded with Anoka County as a deed restriction against the title of
each unit lot.
            e.   Separate public utility service shall be provided to each
subdivided unit and shall be subject to the review and approval of the City
Engineer.
            f.   The subdivision is to be platted and recorded in compliance to
requirements of
Chapter 1001 of this title.
         3.   Subdivision of commercial and industrial lots. The subdivision of
base lots into two or more commercial or industrial unit lots to permit
individual private ownership of a portion of a single commercial or industrial
structure is acceptable subject to the approval of the city. A property
management and maintenance agreement shall be required in compliance with §
1007.024 of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 13-23, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 1007.043 GENERAL BUILDING AND USE PROVISIONS.
   (1)   Dwelling unit restriction. No cellar, garage, tent, travel trailer,
motor home, basement with unfinished structure above, or accessory building
shall at any time be used as a living quarter, temporarily or permanently,
except as approved by the city in emergency cases.
   (2)   Building type and construction.
      (a)   Single family detached dwellings. All single family detached
dwellings shall meet the following design criteria:
         1.   All dwellings, including an attached garage, shall have permanent
concrete, treated wood foundation, or other foundation anchoring system
approved by the Building Official.
         2.   All dwellings, including an attached garage, shall have a minimum
width of 24 feet at its narrowest point. Width measurement shall not take into
account overhangs or other projections beyond the principal exterior walls.
         3.   All dwellings shall have a garage that is a minimum of 20 feet in
width and has a minimum footprint of 520 square feet.
         4.   All dwellings, including an attached garage, with a sloped roof
shall have a minimum 12-inch roof overhang and enclosed soffit.
         5.   All dwellings, including an attached garage, with a sloped roof
shall be covered with shingles or tiles or a standing seam metal roof.
         6.   All dwellings, including an attached garage, shall be built in
compliance with the Minnesota State Building Code.
         7.   The exterior walls of all dwellings, including an attached
garage, shall be similar in appearance to standard wood or masonry residential
construction. Any metal siding on a dwelling, including an attached garage,
shall have a vertical dimension no greater than 12 inches. Sheet metal siding
shall not be permitted.
      (b)   Two family dwellings and townhouse design and construction
standards.
         1.   Unit width. The minimum width of a two-family or townhouse
dwelling unit shall be 24 feet. The minimum footprint per unit shall be
established within the zoning district.
         2.   Unit construction.
            a.   Building elevations and floor plans shall be furnished
illustrating exterior building materials and colors to demonstrate compliance
with division (2)(b)2.d. below. Building floor plans shall identify the
interior storage space within each unit.
            b.   Decks or porches. Provisions shall be made for possible decks,
porches, or additions as part of the initial dwelling unit building plans.
            c.   Minimum overhang. All dwellings, including an attached garage,
with a sloped roof shall have a minimum 12 inch roof overhang and enclosed
soffit.
            d.   Exterior building finish. The exterior of townhouse dwelling
units shall include a variation in building materials which are to be
distributed throughout the building facades on all sides and coordinated into
the architectural design of the structure to create an architecturally balanced
appearance. In addition, townhouse dwelling structures shall comply with the
following requirements:
               i.   A minimum of 25% of the combined area of all building walls
shall have an exterior finish of brick, natural stone, or artificial stone.
               ii.   Except for brick, natural stone, or artificial stone, no
single building wall shall have more than 75% of one type of exterior finish.
               iii.   For the purpose of this section, the area of the building
walls shall not include area devoted to windows, entrance doors, garage doors,
or roof areas.
            e.   All dwellings, including an attached garage, with a sloped
roof shall be covered with shingles or tiles or a standing seam metal roof.
         3.   Storm shelter. In cases where dwelling units are constructed slab
on-grade, provisions shall be made to provide for storm protection either
internally to the unit or in a separate storm shelter structure. Compliance
with this requirement shall be based upon Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) guidelines and standards which are on file with the City Building
Official.
      4.   Garages. Each dwelling unit shall have a garage that is a minimum of
20 feet in width and has a minimum footprint of 520 square feet.
      5.   Utilities.
         a.   Public utility service. Separate public utility services shall be
provided to each unit unless exempted by the City Engineer.
         b.   Sewer connection. Where more than one unit is served by a
sanitary sewer service, all maintenance and cleaning shall be the
responsibility of the property owners' association or owners.
      6.   Homeowners association. A homeowners association shall be
established for all townhouses, multiple-family and townhouse developments
subject to review and approval of the City Attorney. The homeowners'
association shall be responsible for all exterior building maintenance,
approval of any exterior architectural modifications, landscaping, snow
clearing and regular maintenance of private streets and other areas owned in
common when there is more than one individual property owner having interest
within the development.
      (c)   Multiple-family dwelling construction standards. All multiple-
family dwellings shall comply with the following requirements:
         1.   The exterior walls shall include a variation in building
materials distributed throughout the building and coordinated into the design
of the structure to create an architecturally balanced appearance.
         2.   At least 33% of each exterior wall shall be composed of brick,
natural stone, or artificial stone.
         3.   For the purposes of this section, the area of each exterior wall
shall not include area devoted to windows, entrance doors, garage doors, or
roof areas.
         4.   Each exterior wall shall be articulated to add visual interest.
Large blank exterior walls shall be prohibited. Variation in exterior walls can
be accomplished with projections or recesses, material changes, or other
methods of building articulation.
         5.   Distinct ground level(s). The ground level of any 3-story
building and the first two stories of a building four stories or taller shall
be visually distinct from the upper stories. This distinction shall be
articulated by at least one of the following: an intermediate cornice line; an
awning arcade or portico; a change in building materials, texture, or
detailing; a change in window shape or treatment; or other elements which meet
the objective.
         6.   Minimum overhang. All dwellings with a sloped roof shall have a
minimum 12-inch roof overhang and enclosed soffit.
         7.   All sloped roofs shall be covered with shingles, tiles or a
standing seam metal roof.
         8.   A minimum of one-half of the required parking spaces shall be in
an underground parking area or in a parking area below the building.
      (d)   Commercial, industrial, and institutional. All buildings
constructed on land within commercial, industrial, public and semi-public
zoning districts, and all institutional buildings (such as public, education,
and religious buildings) in residential and rural zoning districts shall
conform with the following:
         1.   Definitions. For purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
         ARCHITECTURAL METAL CLADDING. Refers to decorative, metal cladding
systems such as copper, zinc, titanium, stainless steel and painted steel
components fixed to the outside of the primary wall system.
         ARCHITECTURAL REVEALS. A groove or a step in a panel face generally
used to create a desired architectural effect.
         2.   All exterior walls of the principal and accessory structures are
to have essentially the same or a coordinated harmonious finish treatment.
         3.   Classes of primary materials. For the purpose of this section,
primary materials shall be divided into class 1, class 2, and class 3
categories as follows:
Classes of Primary Materials
Class 1 Class 2 Class 3
Classes of Primary Materials
Class 1                    Class 2                   Class 3
                           Precast concrete panels
Brick                      with at least two         Exterior Insulation and
                           architectural reveals per Finish Systems (EIFS)
                           panel
                           Specialty concrete block
Glass, or other glazing    including textured,       Fiber Cement Exterior
materials                  burnished block or rock   Siding
                           faced block
Natural or cultured stone  Ceramic Tile (masonry,    Glass Block
                           stone or clay),
Architecturally textured
concrete precast or poured                          Masonry Stucco
in place panels
                          Architectural metal       Wood
                           cladding
Other materials not listed that are of equal quality to materials in a
specific class may be approved for use by the Community Development Director.
 
         4.   Buildings shall incorporate classes of primary material in the
following manner:
            a.   Commercial, public, educational and religious buildings. At
least 50% of each exterior wall shall be composed of at least three class 1
materials. Class 3 materials shall not comprise more than 25% of each exterior
wall.
            b.   Industrial and warehouse buildings, multi-tenant office/
industrial/warehouse or showroom/warehouse or other combinations. At least 75%
of each exterior wall shall be composed of at least two different class 1 or 2
materials. Class 3 materials shall not comprise more than 25% of each exterior
wall.
            c.   To be counted as a primary material, the product must comprise
at least 5% of the exterior wall.
         5.   Complete or partial buildings comprised of structural metal wall
panel systems that act as the primary wall system, or as a complete wall system
such as pole barns or similar structures common to agricultural or industrial
storage uses are prohibited.
         6.   Commercial, public, educational and religious buildings shall
have a well-defined base, middle and top. The base should appear visually
distinct from the middle and top part (cornice) of the building through the use
of a change in building materials, color, window shape or size, an intermediate
cornice line, sign band, an awning, or similar techniques. A cap shall include
the area from the top floor to the roof of the building and shall include a
cornice, roof overhang, and change of color or material to differentiate it
from the middle section of the building. Flashing shall not be considered a
cap.
         7.   Any wall facing a public right-of-way shall not have an
uninterrupted length exceeding 100 feet without including at least two of the
following: change in plane, change in texture or masonry pattern, two class 1
materials, windows in a manner that is impactful to the design, or an
equivalent element that subdivides the wall into human scale proportions.
         8.   Buildings may be constructed of primarily one class 1 material if
the design meets or exceeds the intent of this section.
         9.   A distinctively different color of brick may be considered as a
second class 1 material. However, minor blended color variations shall not be
considered as a separate material.
         10.   Earth tone colors of exterior materials shall be required.
“Earth tone colors” shall be defined as any various soft colors like those
found in nature in soil, vegetation, etc. Such colors are limited to various
shades or tints of brown, black, gray, tan, beige, brick red, green, blue, or
white.
         11.   The building walls may contain up to 10% contrasting colors.
Contrasting colors shall be those colors not defined as earth tones.
         12.   All buildings with a sloped roof shall have a minimum 12-inch
roof overhang and enclosed soffit.
         13.   All buildings with sloped roofs shall be covered with shingles
or tiles or a standing seam metal roof.
         14.   All mechanical equipment, such as air handling units located
anywhere on the property, including rooftop equipment, shall be screened from
ground level view from adjacent streets, public rights of way, and adjacent
properties.
         15.   Where a site abuts a residential property, the location of air
handling and other equipment must take into account the potential for noise and
other impacts on the residential property.
         16.   Building foundations not exceeding two feet need not comply with
the requirements for the primary wall treatments or materials.
         17.   For the purposes of this section, the area of each exterior wall
shall not include area devoted to garage doors, window trim, and flashing.
         18.   Replacement of non-conforming materials on existing buildings,
or expansions of less than 50% of the floor area of an existing building may
use the same or superior materials as existing.
      (e)   Quasi-public structures.
         1.   No quasi-public structure shall be located within the public
right-of-way except as approved by the City Council. Such structure shall
include but not be limited to trash containers, bicycle racks, benches,
planting boxes, awnings, flag poles, light standards, stairs, stoops, light
wells, loading wells, signs and others.
         2.   Public and quasi-public utility poles and underground services
may be permitted within public right-of-way provided that:
            a.   A permanent identification tag or marking is affixed to each
structure.
            b.   The city is notified as to the location and date of placement
of the structure.
            c.   The city is notified of any change of structure ownership,
removal or modification.
            d.   Lease or joint use agreements or arrangements applicable to
each utility structure are disclosed.
      (f)   Completion of exterior improvements.
         1.   All exterior improvements of a structure, or portion thereof, to
single family dwellings, multiple family dwellings of 12 units or less, or any
structure accessory to a residential use shall be completed in accordance with
city-approved construction plans within 180 days after the date the city issued
the building permit.
         2.   All exterior improvements of a structure, or portion thereof, to
multiple family dwellings of more than 12 units or any commercial, industrial,
office, institutional or non-residential structure shall be completed in
accordance with city-approved construction plans within one year after the date
the city issued the building permit.
         3.   In all cases, the compliance deadline shall be upheld unless:
            a.   The process for a temporary certificate of occupancy is
completed as described in the city fee schedule, as amended, which would extend
the completion date beyond those listed in divisions (2)(f)1. and 2. above; or
            b.   A written extension is submitted and approved by the Building
Official. Such an extension may be granted in the event that a natural disaster
or a calamitous event occurs which unavoidably delays the completion of the
building project.
         4.   For building permits issued prior to the effective date of the
ordinance amendment establishing the time limits in divisions (2)(f)1. and 2.
above, the time period for the limits begins with the effective date of the
amendment establishing the time limits.
   (3)   Height.
      (a)   Exceptions. The building height limits established herein for
districts shall not apply to the following:
         1.   Farm structures.
         2.   Church spires not exceeding 60 feet in height.
         3.   Belfries not exceeding 60 feet in height.
         4.   Cupolas not exceeding 60 feet in height.
         5.   Chimneys and smokestacks.
         6.   Flag poles mounted on a building.
         7.   Non-commercial television and radio antennae, and satellite
dishes.
         8.   Parapet walls extending not more than four feet above the
limiting height of the building.
         9.   Elevator penthouses.
         10.   Cooling towers/water towers.
         11.   Lighting structures for public outdoor recreational fields not
exceeding 80 feet in height.
         12.   Lighting structures for public hockey rinks not exceeding 60
feet in height.
      (b)   Conditional use permit. Building heights in excess of those
standards contained in the district provisions and any other sections of this
chapter may be allowed by conditional use permit if the following conditions
are met:
         1.   Demonstrated need is established for the increase in height and
said increase will not violate the intent and character of the zoning district
in which the structure is located.
         2.   The site is capable of accommodating the increased structure
size.
         3.   The potential increased intensity and size of use does not cause
an increase in traffic volumes beyond the capacity of the surrounding streets.
         4.   Public utilities and services are adequate.
         5.   For each additional story over the district limitation or for
each additional ten feet above the maximum allowed per district, front and side
yard setback requirements shall be increased by 10%.
         6.   The construction does not limit solar access to abutting and/or
neighboring properties. A shadow study shall be required illustrating shadow
encroachment on adjoining properties.
         7.   The provisions of §
1007.016 are considered and satisfactorily met.
      (c)   Obstructions. In the case of any proposal to construct or alter a
structure which will exceed a height of 200 feet above ground level of the
site, or any proposal to construct or alter a structure to a height of greater
than an imaginary surface extending upward and outward at a slope of 100:1 from
the nearest point of the nearest runway of a public airport, the applicant
shall notify the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Transportation in
writing of the plans at least 30 days in advance of making applicable permit
requests to the city. The applicant shall provide the Zoning Administrator with
any comments received from the Commission of the Minnesota Department of
Transportation as part of the required applicable permit request. This local
reporting is in addition to any Federal permitting and review processing which
may be simultaneously required.
(Am. Ord. 13-23, passed 9-11-2023; Am. Ord. 05-24, passed 5-28-2024)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1007.044 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (1)   General provisions.
      (a)   No accessory building, structure, or use shall be constructed or
located on a lot prior to the time of construction of the principal building to
which it is accessory, except in the case of agricultural buildings on
agriculture land as defined by M.S. § 273.13 and § 273.23, as amended.
      (b)   A building or portion thereof used for an accessory use, other than
home occupation, shall be considered as an accessory building.
      (c)   Unless otherwise allowed by this chapter, no detached accessory
building, structure, or use shall be closer to the front lot line than the
principal building or its attached garage except within the R and R-X zoning
districts. The accessory building, use, or structure setback shall be at least
100 feet from the front lot line.
      (d)   Setbacks for accessory buildings, structures, and uses in all
zoning districts shall be determined in accordance with appropriate district
provisions. Location of said accessory buildings, structures and uses shall not
interfere with the future subdivision of the property.
      (e)   Accessory buildings may, by permit, be located within public
easements if the following conditions are met:
         1.   No permanent footings or foundation shall be located within the
public easement.
         2.   The building, including any base material, must be designed to be
easily moved.
         3.   The building shall not be located within the 100-year high water
level of a waterbody or watercourse.
         4.   The drainage shall not be adversely affected by the building.
         5.   The building footprint shall not exceed 120 square feet.
         6.   The building shall not interfere in any way with any existing
underground or over ground utility.
         7.   The city or any utility company having authority to use such
public easements, shall not be liable for repair or replacement of such
buildings or appurtenance in the event they are moved, damaged or destroyed by
virtue of the lawful use of said easement.
      (f)   In rural and residential districts, gazebos that are attached to
the dwelling by a raised deck, porch, or patio shall not be counted towards the
maximum area or number of accessory buildings allowed on a site, as long as the
sides of the gazebo remain at least 50% open, though the open areas may be
covered with screens.
      (g)   In rural and residential districts, accessory buildings and
structures constructed primarily of canvas, plastic, fabric, vinyl or other
similar non-permanent construction materials are prohibited unless otherwise
permitted in this chapter.
      (h)   A building permit is not required for detached accessory buildings
that do not exceed a footprint of 200 square feet. A zoning permit is required
for such buildings and the buildings shall comply with all applicable
regulations set forth in this chapter.
   (2)   Sport courts. In all rural and residential districts, the following
standards shall apply to outdoor sport courts, whether temporary or permanent:
      (a)   A building permit shall be required for all private residential
sport courts.
      (b)   An application for a building permit shall include a site plan
showing the following along with all required information:
         1.   The size, shape, pavement and sub-pavement materials.
         3.   The location of the house, garage, fencing, septic systems and
any other structural improvements on the lot.
         4.   The location of structures on all adjacent lots.
         5.   A grading plan showing all revised drainage patterns and finished
elevations at the four corners of the court.
         6.   Landscaping and turf protection around the court.
         7.   Location of existing and proposed wiring and lighting facilities.
      (c)   The sport court setback shall be tten feet from any side or rear
lot line. Sport courts shall not be located in the front yard or the required
side setback abutting a street.
      (d)   Sport courts shall not be located in a public easement.
      (e)   Solid sport court practice walls shall not exceed ten feet in
height. A building permit shall be required. The practice wall setback shall be
30 feet from any lot line.
      (f)   Chain link fencing surrounding the sport court may extend up to 12
feet in height above the sport court surface elevation. The fence setback shall
be ten feet from any side or rear lot line.
      (g)   Lighting for the sport court shall be directed toward the sport
court and not toward adjacent property. Lighting shall meet the requirements of
§
1007.046.
   (3)   Carports.
      (a)   Carports shall comply with all regulations for accessory structures
as set forth in this chapter and with the regulations set forth in this
division (3).
      (b)   Carports shall be used for the parking of motor vehicles and shall
not be used for the storage of household or personal items, lawn equipment,
furniture, parts, and the like. The exception is that refuse containers and
stacked firewood may also be kept under a carport (attached or detached) that
is located in a side, rear, or equivalent yard.
      (c)   Carports shall not exceed a footprint of 300 square feet.
      (d)   The eave line (or lowest sloped roof section if there is no eave)
for a carport shall be at least seven feet in height, but shall not exceed ten
feet in height. Carports with flat roofs shall be at least seven feet in
height, but shall not exceed ten feet in height.
   (4)   Swimming pools.
      (a)   Single-family and two family dwellings. The following shall apply
to all swimming pools which are intended for use accessory to single family and
two family dwellings:
         1.   A building permit shall be required for any swimming pool with a
capacity of over 5,000 gallons and with a depth potential of 24 inches.
         2.   An application for a building permit shall include a site plan
showing the type and size of pool, location of pool, location of house, garage,
fencing and other improvements on the lot, location of pool unit, finished
elevations and final treatment (decking, landscaping, etc.) around pool,
location of existing overhead or underground wiring, utility easements, trees,
similar features, and location of any water heating unit.
         3.   Pools shall not be located within ten feet of any septic tank and
20 feet from drain field nor within six feet of any principal structure or
frost footing. Pools shall not be located in the front yard, or within any
accessory structure setback.
         4.   The filter unit, pump heating unit, and any noise-making
mechanical equipment setback shall be 20 feet from any lot line.
         5.   Pools shall not be located in a public easement.
         6.   The necessary precautions shall be taken during the construction
to:
            a.   Avoid damage, hazards or inconvenience to adjacent or nearby
property.
            b.   Assure that proper care shall be taken in stockpiling
excavated materials to avoid erosion, dust or other infringements upon adjacent
property.
            c.   All access for construction shall be over the owner's land and
due care shall be taken to avoid damage to public streets and adjacent
property.
         7.   Lighting for the pool shall be directed toward the pool and not
toward adjacent property.
         8.   A structure at least four feet in height shall completely enclose
the pool. This structure can be safety fencing of a non-climbable type. Pool
walls that are at least four feet in height above finished grade fulfill this
requirement.
         9.   Water in the pool shall be maintained in a suitable manner to
avoid health hazard of any type. Such water shall be subject to periodic
inspection by the local health officer.
         10.   All wiring, installation of heating units, grading, installation
of pipes and all other installations and construction shall be subject to
inspections.
         11.   All swimming pools that require a building permit shall provide
safeguards to prevent uncontrolled access. This can be accomplished with
fencing, screening or other enclosure, or any combination thereof. These
safeguards shall be of sufficient density as to be impenetrable.
            a.   If fences are used, they shall be at least four feet in
height. The bottoms of the fences shall not be more than four inches from the
ground. Fences shall be of a non-corrosive material and shall be constructed as
to be not easily climbable. All fence openings or points of entry into the pool
enclosure shall be equipped with gates or doors. All gates or doors to swimming
pools shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices placed at a
sufficient height so as to be inaccessible to all small children. Prior to
filling the pool, the approved fence must be completely in place and inspected
and approved by the City Building Official.
            b.   When an above-ground pool has vertical or outward inclined
side walls that are at least four feet above finished grade, these fencing
requirements do not apply. However, if no fencing is constructed, the ladder
must be removable or there must be a lockable access to the ladder.
         12.   Required structure or safety fencing shall be completely
installed within three weeks following the installation of the pool and before
any water is allowed in the pool.
         13.   Back flush or pool drainage water shall be directed onto the
property on which the swimming pool is located and ultimately to public storm
sewer, if available.
         14.   Drainage of pools directly into public streets or other public
drainageways shall require written permission of the City Engineer.
      (b)   Multiple-family, commercial and public developments. For private
swimming pools which are intended for use by the occupants and guests of a
multiple-family dwelling, or for private and public clubs and organizations,
the following regulations shall be met in addition to those listed for single
and two family dwellings provided in division (4)(a) above of this section:
         1.   No part of the water surface of the swimming pool shall be less
than 50 feet from any lot line.
         2.   No pumps, filter or other apparatus used in connection with or to
service a swimming pool shall be located less than 50 feet from any lot line.
         3.   The pool area shall be adequately fenced to prevent uncontrolled
access from the street or adjacent property. Adequate screening, including but
not limited to landscaping, shall be located between the pool area and adjacent
lot lines.
         4.   All deck areas, adjacent patios, or other similar areas used in
conjunction with the swimming pool shall be located at least 30 feet from any
lot line.
         5.   To the extent possible, back-flush water or water from pool
drainage shall be directed onto the owner's property.
   (5)   Houseboats. Houseboats are considered accessory structures for purpose
of applying this chapter and shall comply with the following standards:
      (a)   All houseboats which are to be docked or moored within the city
limits for a period of six days or more shall require an annual permit. Said
permit shall identify the owner, owner's address, boat license number, whether
the boat is to be used as a seasonal residence and, if so, for what period of
time during the year, type of sanitary sewage facility, water supply, and plot
plan showing method of access to public street.
      (b)   Each houseboat shall have one off-street parking space within 400
feet of the access to the docking of such houseboat.
      (c)   No houseboat shall be used as a permanent residence and no
utilities including sanitary sewer, water, electricity, and phone shall be
extended to the houseboat.
   (6)   Ice fishing houses.  Ice fishing houses stored on property during
summer months shall be considered an accessory building. All ice fishing houses
shall be licensed in compliance with State law.
   (7)   Docks and boat launches. Private docks and boat launches may be stored
on riparian lots provided such structures lie upon the same lot as the
principal building to which they serve.
   (8)   Roadside stands. Seasonal, temporary roadside stands for the sale of
agricultural products shall be permitted if:
      (a)   They are located in a zoning district that allows for such use; and
      (b)   They are located on the lot the produce is grown; and
      (c)   They are located at least 60 feet back from the nearest edge of the
street surface; and
      (d)   Adequate parking space is provided off the street right-of-way and
safe vehicular access and movements are assured.
   (9)   Animal shelters. Structures dedicated to the housing of animals are
considered accessory structures for the purpose of applying this section and
shall comply with the following standards:
      (a)   The keeping of animals is allowed in compliance with the provisions
of
Chapter 503 of this code.
      (b)   The animal shelters shall not count towards the maximum number and
size of accessory buildings subject to the following conditions:
         1.   The total combined footprint of all animal shelters shall not
exceed 64 square feet.
         2.   The maximum height shall not exceed 60 inches.
      (10)   Rural, residential and special zoning district accessory
buildings. The following establishes accessory buildings requirements allowed
on a property according to lot size and zoning district. For the purposes of
this section, lot size for metes and bounds properties shall include roadway
easements.
         (a)   One tool shed not to exceed a footprint of 120 square feet is
allowed. The tool shed shall not count towards the total number of allowed
accessory buildings, or the total allowed building footprint as regulated
below. Tool sheds are not subject to material or roof requirements as regulated
below.
      (b)   20 acres or greater.
         1.   No maximum combination of accessory building(s) and garage(s)
size requirement.
         2.   Metal buildings and pole barns are allowed.
         3.   Canopy structures made of fabric or vinyl are allowed.
         4.   Building height shall not exceed base district requirement.
         5.   One attached garage not to exceed a footprint of 1,200 square
feet or equal to the size of the house foundation, whichever is greater.
      (c)   Ten to less than 20 acres.
         1.   The combination of accessory building(s) and garage(s) shall not
exceed the greater of:
            a.   Ten thousand square feet, or
            b.   One point eighty five percent of the lot area, not to exceed
15,000 square feet.
         2.   Total allowable accessory building footprint shall be limited to
the following:
            a.   One attached garage and
            b.   Three detached accessory buildings.
         3.   Metal buildings and pole barns are allowed.
         4.   Canopy structures made of fabric or vinyl are allowed.
         5.   One attached garage not to exceed a footprint of 1,200 square
feet or equal to the size of the house foundation, whichever is greater.
         6.   Building height shall not exceed base district requirement.
      (d)   Five to less than ten acres.
         1.   The combination of accessory buildings and garages shall not
exceed the greater of:
            a.   Five thousand square feet, or
            b.   Two point twenty-one percent of the lot area, not to exceed
10,000 square feet.
         2.   Total allowable accessory building footprint shall be limited to
the following:
            a.   One attached garage and
            b.   Three detached accessory buildings.
         3.   Metal buildings and pole barns are allowed.
         4.   Canopy structures made of fabric or vinyl are allowed.
         5.   One attached garage not to exceed a footprint of 1,200 square
feet or equal to the size of the house foundation, whichever is greater.
         6.   Building height shall not exceed base district requirement.
      (e)   Less than five acres.
         1.   The combination of accessory buildings and garages shall not
exceed the greater of:
            a.   Twelve hundred square feet, or
            b.   Three and three quarters percent of the lot area, not to
exceed 5,000 square feet.
         2.   Total allowable accessory building footprint shall be limited to
the following:
            a.   One attached garage and one detached building, or
            b.   Two detached accessory buildings.
         3.   One attached garage not to exceed a footprint of 1,200 square
feet or equal to 90% of
the size of the house foundation, whichever is greater.
         4.   Building height shall not exceed 20 feet.
         5.   Metal sheet or metal panel siding with vertical orientation is
prohibited. Metal horizontal lap siding is allowed.
         6.   Exterior walls shall be similar in appearance to standard wood or
masonry residential construction. The accessory building shall be covered with
shingles, tiles, or a standing seam metal roof.
         7.   Canopy structures made of fabric or vinyl are allowed.
   (11)   Business and industrial zoning districts. The following establishes
the maximum number, size, and height of accessory buildings allowed in the
business and industrial zoning districts:
      (a)   Except where approved by conditional use permit or planned unit
development, one accessory building not exceeding a footprint of 400 square
feet shall be allowed except when intended for storage of buses.
      (b)   Building height shall be limited to 12 feet maximum except when
intended for storage of buses per §
1007.043(2)(b)2.
      (c)   Metal buildings and pole barns are prohibited.
      (d)   All sides of the principal and accessory structures are to have
essentially the same or a coordinated harmonious finish treatment in compliance
with §
1007.043(2).
      (e)   Accessory buildings on commercial or industrial sites shall be
limited to typical accessory storage uses. No additional commercial or
industrial use shall be allowed within an accessory storage building.
      (f))   Accessory buildings in compliance with this section shall not be
subject to the site and building plan review requirements of §
1007.019(2).
      (g)   Accessory buildings shall not be located within a public easement.
      (h)   Building permits shall be required in compliance with the State
Building Code.
§ 1007.045 REFUSE AND RECYCLING.
   (1)   Removal.
      (a)    Motor vehicles not currently licensed by the state, or that
because of mechanical deficiency are incapable of movement under their own
power, parked or stored outside for a period in excess of 30 days, shall be
disposed of within 30 days of notification by the city.
      (b)   All materials stored outside in violation of city code provisions
are considered refuse or junk and shall be disposed of within 30 days of
notification by the city.
   (2)   Location and screening.
      (a)   Single family detached dwellings, two family dwellings, and all
other residential buildings with four or less units. Garbage cans, waste
containers and recycling bins shall be kept in a garage, an accessory building,
or rear or side yards.
      (b)   Commercial, industrial, institutional, and residential buildings
with more than four units.
         1.   All refuse, recyclable materials, and necessary handling
equipment including but not limited to garbage cans, recycling bins, and
dumpsters shall be stored within the principal building, within an accessory
building, or within an enclosure. This section shall not apply to public parks.
         2.   Enclosures. Outdoor storage of refuse and recyclable material
shall require the following:
            a.   Exterior wall or fence treatment shall be similar and/or
complement the principal building.
            b.   The enclosure shall be located in the rear or side yard and
shall comply with all applicable accessory structure setback requirements and
easements.
            c.   The enclosure shall be in an accessible location for pick up
hauling vehicles.
            d.   The enclosure shall be fully screened by a fence or wall of at
least six feet in height and has a minimum opaqueness of at least 80%.
            e.   All dumpsters, recycling bins, handling equipment, and
enclosures shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator and be kept in a good
state of repair with lids designed to prevent spilling and spread of debris and
access by animals.
§ 1007.046 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (1)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to encourage the use of
lighting systems that will reduce light pollution and promote energy
conservation while increasing night time safety, utility, security and
productivity.
   (2)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
following:
      (a)   Temporary outdoor lighting used during customary holiday seasons.
      (b)   Temporary outdoor lighting used for civic celebrations and
promotions.
      (c)   Lighting required by a government agency for the safe operation of
airplanes, or security lighting required on government buildings or structures.
      (d)   Emergency lighting by police, fire, and rescue authorities.
   (3)   Non-conforming uses.
      (a)   Existing fixtures. All outdoor lighting fixtures existing and
legally installed prior to March 10, 2003 are exempt from regulations of this
section but shall comply with the following requirements for glare: Any
lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area, sign or other
structure, shall be arranged as to deflect light away from any adjoining
residential zone or from the public streets. Direct or sky-reflected glare,
where from flood lights or from high temperature processes such as combustion
or welding shall not be directed into any adjoining property. The source of
lights shall be hooded or controlled in some manner so as not to light adjacent
property. Bare incandescent light bulbs shall not be permitted in view of
adjacent property or public right-of-way. Any light or combination of lights
which cast light on a public street shall not exceed one foot candle (meter
reading) as measured from the right-of-way line of said street. Any light or
combination of lights which cast light on residential property shall not exceed
four-tenths foot candles (meter reading) as measured from said property.
      (b)   New fixtures. Whenever a light fixture that was existing prior to
March 10, 2003 is replaced by a new outdoor light fixture, the provisions of
this section shall be complied with.
   (4)   Intensity. No light source or combination thereof which cast light on
a public street shall exceed one foot candle (meter reading) as measured from
the right-of-way line of said street nor shall any light source or combination
thereof which cast light on adjacent property exceed four-tenths foot candles
(meter reading) as measured at the lot line per the method outlined in division
(5) below.
   (5)   Method of measuring light intensity. The foot candle level of a light
source shall be taken after dark with the light meter held six inches above the
ground with the meter facing the light source. A reading shall be taken with
the light source on, then with the light source off. The difference between the
two readings will be identified as the light intensity.
   (6)   Performance standards.
      (a)   Rural, residential, public, and semi-public district standards. In
all residential, rural and public/semi-public districts, any lighting used to
illuminate a structure, an off-street parking area, or other area shall be
arranged as to deflect light away from any adjoining residential property or
from any public right-of-way. All lighting shall be installed in compliance
with the following provisions:
         1.   The light source shall be hooded or controlled so as not to light
adjacent property in excess of the maximum intensity defined by this chapter.
         2.   Bare light bulbs shall not be permitted in view of adjacent
property or public right-of-way, unless part of a permanent or decorative
fixture.
      (b)   Business and industrial district standards. Any lighting used to
illuminate a structure, an off-street parking area, or other area shall be
arranged so as to deflect light away from any adjoining property or from any
public right-of-way. All lighting shall be installed in compliance with the
following provisions:
         1.   The luminaire shall contain a cutoff which directs and cuts off
the light at an angle of 90 degrees or less.
         2.   Architectural/historical light fixtures that feature globes that
are not shielded, or lighting of entire facades or architectural features of a
building may be approved by the Zoning Administrator. In no case shall the
light affect adjacent property in excess of the maximum intensity defined in
division (4) above of this section.
         3.   The maximum height of the fixture and pole above the ground grade
permitted for light sources is 30 feet. A light source mounted on a building
shall not exceed the height of the building. In no case shall the height of a
light source mounted on a pole or on a building exceed the height limits of the
zoning district in which the use is located, unless allowed by conditional use
permit.
         4.   Location.
            a.   The outdoor light fixture setback shall be ten feet from a
street right-of-way and five feet from an interior side or rear lot line.
            b.   No light source shall be located on the roof unless said light
enhances the architectural features of the building and is approved by Zoning
Administrator.
         5.   Hours.
            a.   The use of outdoor lighting for parking lots serving
commercial and industrial businesses shall be turned off one hour after
closing, except for approved security lighting.
            b.   All illuminated on-premise signs for advertising purposes
shall be turned off between 12:00 a.m. and sunrise except that said signs may
be illuminated while the business facility on the premise is open for service.
         6.   Direct or reflected glare from high temperature processes such as
combustion or welding shall not be visible from any adjoining property.
      (c)   Outdoor recreation. Outdoor commercial or public recreational uses
such as, but not limited to, baseball fields, football fields, hockey rinks,
and tennis courts have special requirements for night time lighting. Due to
these unique circumstances, an administrative permit shall be required for
commercial and public outdoor recreational use lighting systems which do not
comply with the regulations of this section.
         1.   No outdoor recreation facility whether public or private shall be
illuminated after 11:00 p.m., except for required security lighting.
         2.   Off-street parking areas for outdoor recreation uses which are
illuminated shall meet the requirements stated for business or industrial
applications as found in division (6)(b) above of this section.
         3.   The provisions for an administrative use permit per §
1007.019 of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (7)   Submission of plans. All applications, except single family
residential, that include outdoor lighting must include evidence the proposed
outdoor lighting will comply with this section. The application shall contain
the following information, in addition to other required information:
      (a)   Site plans indicating the location on the premises of all
illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports, reflectors, and other lighting
devices.
      (b)   Description of the type of illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps,
supports, reflectors, and other lighting devices (angle of cutoff). The
description shall include, but is not limited to, catalog cuts by manufacturers
and drawings (including sections where required).
      (c)   Photometric plans illustrating the light emissions, and
illumination field of the proposed site lighting.
§ 1007.047 ENVIRONMENTAL PROVISIONS.
   (1)   Smoke. The emission of smoke by any use shall be in compliance with
and regulated by the State of Minnesota Pollution Control Standards, Minnesota
Regulation APC 7009, as amended.
   (2)   Dust and other particulate matter. The emission of dust, fly ash or
other particulate matter by any use shall be in compliance with and regulated
by the State of Minnesota Pollution Control Standards, Minnesota Regulation APC
7009, as amended.
   (3)   Odors. The emission of odor by any use shall be in compliance with and
regulated by the State of Minnesota Pollution Control Standards, Minnesota
Regulation APC 7009, as amended.
   (4)   Noise. Noises emanating from any use shall be in compliance with and
regulated by the State of Minnesota Pollution Control Standards, Minnesota
Regulations MPC 7030, as amended and City Code.
   (5)   Sewage disposal. Where allowed, the installation of on-site sewage
treatment systems shall be in compliance with the provisions of the State
Building Code and applicable state and city codes.
   (6)   Waste material. Waste material resulting from or used in industrial or
commercial manufacturing, fabricating, servicing, processing or trimming shall
not be washed into the public storm sewer system, the sanitary sewer system or
any public water body, but shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the
Minnesota State Fire Marshal, the Pollution Control Agency, the Department of
Natural Resources and the Zoning Administrator.
   (7)   Bulk storage (liquid). All uses associated with the bulk storage of
all gasoline, liquid fertilizer, chemical, flammable and similar liquids shall
comply with requirements of the Minnesota State Fire Marshal, Minnesota
Department of Agricultural Offices, and have documents from those offices
stating the use is in compliance.
   (8)   Radiation emission. All activities that emit radioactivity shall
comply with the minimum requirements of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   (9)   Electrical emission. All activities which create electrical emissions
shall comply with the minimum requirements of the Federal Communications
Commission.
§ 1007.048 OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   (1)   Rural and residential zoning districts.
      (a)   All personal property in a rural or residential zoning district
shall be stored within a building except for the following items which are in
use or useable and are in good condition:
         1.   Clothesline in side and rear yards only.
         2.   Non-vehicular recreational equipment in side and rear yards only.
         3.   Home heating fuel tanks.
         4.   Stacked firewood in side and rear yards only.
         5.   Construction and landscaping materials or equipment currently
(within a period of 12 months) being used on the premises.
         6.   Agricultural equipment and materials, if these are used or
intended for use on the premises.
         7.   Off-street parking and storage of licensed passenger motor
vehicles and motorcycles shall be limited to operable vehicles registered and
licensed to the occupants of the dwelling unit and their guests only.
         8.   Off-street parking of licensed passenger motor vehicles in
designated driveway or parking area, surfaced in compliance with §
1007.052(3)(h)16.
         9.   Licensed motor vehicles per §
1007.052(11).
         10.   Refuse and recyclable materials per §
1007.045.
         11.   Storage pods or roll-off dumpsters in compliance with the
following:
            a.   No permit is required.
            b.   They shall be located in a driveway.
            c.   They shall not block a sidewalk or trail.
            d.   They shall be removed after 30 days.
         12.   Lawn, garden, and holiday ornamentation.
         13.   Outdoor furniture including grills and similar items.
   (2)   Business, industrial and special zoning districts.
      (a)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage shall be governed by the
respective zoning district in which such use is located.
      (b)   Screening. All outdoor storage shall be screened so as not to be
visible from adjoining properties and public streets except for the following:
         1.   Merchandise being displayed for sale in compliance with zoning
district requirements.
         2.   Materials and equipment currently being used for construction on
the premises.
      (c)   Semi-trailers.
         1.   Semi-trailers backed up to a loading space or dock door shall be
exempt from these requirements.
         2.   Semi-trailers connected to semi-tractors waiting to be loaded or
unloaded shall be considered truck parking and shall be exempt from these
requirements.
         3.   Within an industrial zoning district, the outdoor storage of
semi-trailers accessory to the principal use may be allowed by conditional use
permit according to §§
1007.140 and
1007.141.
   (3)   All zoning districts.
      (a)   Except temporary construction trailers and facilities operated by
public service agencies (i.e., bookmobile, bloodmobiles, etc.) as allowed by
the city, no recreational vehicle may be used for habitation, office, business,
industrial manufacturing, testing, or storage of items in conjunction with a
business, commercial or industrial enterprise.
      (b)   The City Council may order the owner of any property to cease or
modify outdoor storage uses including existing uses, provided it is found that
such use constitutes a threat to the public health, safety, convenience, or
general welfare.
§ 1007.049 SCREENING, LANDSCAPING, BUFFER YARDS AND TREE PRESERVATION.
   (1)   Purpose. To establish landscaping and tree preservation standards to
promote high quality site development, compatibility of uses, biodiversity,
tree preservation, and to enhance the health, safety and general welfare of the
residents of the community.
      (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of the landscaping, screening and tree
preservation standards, the following definitions shall apply:
      BASIC USE AREA. The area necessary for construction of the site's allowed
use in accordance with the following:
         1.   Commercial, industrial, and institutional uses include the area
within the footprints of buildings and vehicular hardscape and within 20 feet
around those improvements
         2.   Residential subdivisions include the area within the street
right-of-way and that portion of a residential lot between the right-of-way and
within 100 feet beyond and parallel to the street right-of-way.
         3.   Surface water management ponds are not part of the basic use
area.
      BIODIVERSITY.  The variety, distribution and abundance of living
organisms in an ecosystem.
      DAMAGE.  Action or inaction which does not follow good arboriculture
practices. Damage may include damage inflicted upon roots by machinery,
changing the natural grade above the root system or around the trunk,
destruction of the natural shape or any action which causes infection,
infestation or decay.
      DBH.  Diameter at breast height, typically measured at four and one-half
feet to six feet above the ground.
      DETENTION AREA. Area of a detention pond from the normal water level and
up the side slopes to ten feet offset from the high water level.
      DISTURBANCE. Any construction, development, removals, earth movement,
clearing or other similar activity.
      DRIP LINE.  Imaginary line on the ground that is extended straight
downward from the outermost edge of the canopy.
      ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREA (ESA).  An area that contains native
vegetation, natural features and/or natural resources. These include surface
water (rivers, lakes, streams and ditches); shoreland and floodplain areas,
especially riparian and wildlife corridors; wetlands, sensitive groundwater
(wellhead) protection areas and sensitive geological features; state or
federally listed (endangered, threatened or special concern) plant and animal
species and their habitat; natural plant communities, including forests,
woodlands and prairies, particularly those of high species diversity and other
unique and sensitive features. ESA's are categorized as Natural Resource
Conservation Areas and Natural Resource Enhancement Area.
      FOUNDATION LANDSCAPE ZONE.  An area located within fifteen feet of the
building.
      LARGE SHRUB. Large shrubs have a mature height over six feet.
      LARGE TREE.  Over story deciduous trees with a mature height of at least
40 feet.
      MEDIUM SHRUB. Medium shrubs have a mature height of three to six feet.
      MEDIUM TREE.  Deciduous trees with a mature height over 18 feet and up to
39 feet.
      NATURAL RESOURCE CONSERVATION AREA. An area within the Shoreland District
of DNR Public Waters (lakes and creeks), 50 feet of a creek or public ditches,
and areas within the Rice Creek Watershed District (RCWD) Wetland Management
Corridor (WMC).
      NATURAL RESOURCE ENHANCEMENT AREA.  Includes wetland areas non-contiguous
to the RCWD WMC extending outward from wetland boundary 75 feet for management
class A (Preserve), 50 feet for management class B (Manage 1), 30 feet for
management class C (Manage 2) and class D (Manage 3); areas located within the
100-year (1% chance) floodplain; and Woodland Preservations Areas.
      REMOVAL. Actual removal or effective removal through actions resulting in
the death of a tree.
      ROOT PROTECTION ZONE. An imaginary circle surrounding the tree trunk with
a radius distance of one foot per one inch of tree DBH (e.g., a 20 inch
diameter tree has a Root Protection Zone with a radius of 20 feet).
      SCREEN.  A barrier that hinders sight and, potentially, access.
      SMALL SHRUB.  Small shrubs have a mature height of less than three feet.
Small shrubs are interchangeable with perennials, ornamental grasses and
groundcovers to fulfill landscape standards.
      SMALL TREE.  Understory deciduous trees with a mature height of 18 feet
and under.
      UNDESIRABLE TREE.  Trees that are dead, diseased, structurally weak,
invasive or trees that are hazardous to people, infrastructure or buildings.
      VEHICULAR HARDSCAPE. Areas covered with hard surface intended for motor
vehicles, including but not limited to off-street loading spaces, parking lots,
driveway, drop-offs, and drive through facilities.
      WETLAND MANAGEMENT CORRIDOR.  A contiguous corridor encompassing high
priority wetland resources established by the Rice Creek Watershed District.
      WOODLAND PRESERVATION AREA. A remnant woodland ecosystem that is
generally mapped in the City's Minnesota Land Cover Classification System, and
although it may be degraded it generally meets the criteria for one of the
following types of ecosystems as reasonably determined by the city: alder,
aspen, black ash swamp, deciduous forest, floodplain forest, lowland forest,
maple-basswood, mixed hardwood swamp, northern hardwood, oak forest, paper
birch, saturated or seasonally flooded deciduous forest, seasonally flooded
deciduous forest, tamarack swamp, upland deciduous forest or woodland and
willow swamp.
   (2)   Landscaping standards. New residential platted subdivisions, mixed
use, commercial, institutional and industrial uses shall be subject to the
landscaping standards unless specifically excepted. The landscape standards
have been divided into five categories: canopy cover, foundation landscape,
open areas landscape, buffer and screen, and boulevard trees. Projects shall
comply with the applicable requirements of all five categories.
   (3)   Canopy cover standards. The purpose of this requirement is to mitigate
the effects of vehicular hardscape by establishing tree canopy cover to
intercept rainfall, protect pavement from sun deterioration, reduce the heat
island affect, and improve aesthetics. Canopy cover requirements do not apply
to single-family residential development, multi-family residential development
without surface parking other than individual unit driveways and permitted
outdoor storage areas in Industrial Districts.
      (a)   The required minimum canopy coverage for all uses is 40%.
      (b)   The following equation shall be used to calculate required canopy
coverage:
         Vehicular Hardscape (Square Feet) x Canopy Cover Percent = Required
Minimum Canopy Cover (Square Feet)
         The total of the assigned canopy coverage values for all the trees in
or near the vehicular hardscape must be equal or greater than the required
minimum. Pervious pavements are considered 50% hardscape.
      (c)   The assigned canopy coverage value of each tree is based on
planting location, tree size and anticipated tree canopy size 15 years after
planting. The assigned canopy cover value to each deciduous tree is described
in the following table and illustrations:
Table 1
Assigned Canopy Cover Value
Assigned Canopy Cover Value
                                   Interior       Within less    7 to 12 feet
Planting Location (for new trees)  parking lot    than 7 feet of from vehicular
                                   islands        vehicular      hardscape edge
                                                  hardscape edge
                                   100 percent of 50% of the     25% of the
Assigned Canopy Coverage Value     the canopy     canopy square  canopy square
                                   square footage footage        footage
                                   950 SF (or
Square feet  Large Tree            1200 SF in     600 SF         300 SF
(SF) of                            islands of 3
canopy                             or more trees)
coverage     Medium Tree           500 SF         250 SF         125 SF
assigned to  Small Tree            250 SF         125 SF         NA
each         Existing Tree: 6 -    1900 SF        950 SF         NA
deciduous    12" DBH
tree         Existing Tree: 12+” 2850 SF        1425 SF        NA
             DBH
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2584.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2586.png]
 
      (d)   Existing trees may be used to fulfill canopy coverage, as described
in division (9) below of this section, when the drip line has proximity to the
edge of the hardscape; therefore, existing trees do not need to be within less
than seven feet of the vehicular hardscape edge.
   (4)   Foundation landscape standards. The purpose of these standards is to
soften and enhance building architecture, define access points, add color and
seasonal interest, and to blend buildings in with the natural environment.
Foundation landscaping standards do not apply to single family residential
development.
      (a)   The foundation landscape planting standards are described in the
following table:
Table 2
 
Foundation Landscape Standards
                               Per 100 linear feet (LF) of Building*
Location                           Trees    and Shrubs
Front and Public/Private Street 2 large 6 large
 
      (b)   Rounded to the nearest tenth, with a minimum factor of one.
      (c)   Round all calculations to the nearest whole number of plants.
      (d)   The required plant materials shall be planted in the foundation
landscape zone adjacent to the building face where the requirement applies. The
city may allow flexible planting locations where service areas or other
constraints make the standards difficult to meet.
      (e)   Existing trees may be used to fulfill the foundation landscape
standards as described in division (9) below of this section.
      (f)   Smaller landscape materials may be substituted at the following
rates:
         1 Large Tree = 1.5 Medium or 2 Small Trees
         1 Large Shrub = 1.5 Medium or 3 Small Shrubs
      (g)   One large tree may be substituted for every two large shrubs in
lieu of the shrub requirement at the discretion of the city.
      (h)   The design of landscaping for ground areas under the building roof
overhang must take into account the potential effects of runoff from the roof
edge.
      (i)   Trees planted within 30 feet of the building shall be considered
within the foundation landscape zone.
   (5)   Open areas landscape standards. The purpose of these standards is to
provide general site beautification and high aesthetic quality with a mix of
plant materials in open areas. Open areas include disturbed site areas, that
are not located within the foundation landscape zone, vehicular hardscape area
or the building footprint and include cul-de-sac islands, boulevard medians,
storm water management areas, and common areas in multifamily sites that are
not for recreation facilities. Open area landscaping standards do not apply to
single family residential lots. Open areas landscaping shall meet the following
standards.
      (a)   The open areas planting standards are described in the following
table:
Table 3
 
Open Areas Landscape Standards
Per 2500 SF* Trees and Shrubs
             1 large 2 large
*Rounded to the nearest tenth, with a minimum factor of one.
 
      (b)   Round all calculations to the nearest whole number of plants.
      (c)   Only land above the normal water level shall be included in the
open area calculation for storm water detention areas. Planting shall be
located above the normal water level in detention areas. The city may require
specific tree species in locations where water levels vary.
      (d)   Existing trees may be used to fulfill open areas landscape
standards as described in division (9) below of this section.
      (e)   Smaller landscape materials may be substituted at the following
rates:
         1 Large Tree = 1.5 Medium or 2 Small Trees
         2 Large Shrub = 1.5 Medium or 3 Small Shrubs
      (f)   One large tree may be substituted for every two large shrubs in
lieu of the shrub requirement at the discretion of the city.
      (g)   Areas that are included in a project-specific natural resource
management plan that addresses vegetation are not subject to the open areas
landscaping standards.
   (6)   Buffer and screen standards. The purpose of this requirement is to
separate and buffer different land use types, screen roads and parking, and
screen utility and loading areas. The location of buffers and screens are
listed below, while the width of the buffer yard can be found in the respective
zoning districts. Buffers and screens shall meet the following standards:
      (a)   Required screen location, height, and materials are described in
the following table:
Table 4
 
Landscape Screen Location, Height and Materials
Location       Required       Required Screen Materials
               Screen Height
Between a
parking lot
and public
right of way
or sidewalk                  •   Planting screen in compliance with paragraph (f)2.
where parking     30 inches   Or
projects                      •   A combination of berm and screen in compliance with division (6)(b) below.
toward the
public right-
of-way or
sidewalk
Between
residential
uses and
arterial or
collector
street
Between any
development
and adjacent,
less intense,
residential
land uses                     •   Planting screen in compliance with (6)(b).
(this includes                  Or
across a                     •   Wall or fence and plantings shall provide shrub cover for 50% of the wall or
street from                  fence on the exterior side.
residential),     6 feet      Or
but not on the                •   A combination of berm and screen in compliance with division (6)(b).
side of a use
considered to
be the front
(as determined
by the Zoning
Administrator)
Between
loading/
service area
and public
view
                              •   A wall or fence of permanent materials and planting shall provide shrub cover
Outdoor        10 feet        for 50% of the wall or fence on the exterior side. At its discretion, the City
Storage Yards                 Council may approve a modification or waiver from these standards where the
                              affected lot line adjoins another industrial property.
 
      (b)   All planting screens shall require at a minimum a double row of
plants with triangulated spacing (See illustration). Planting plans shall
include species which are sized to appropriately screen visibility within five
years of planting. Small shrubs shall be a planted at a maximum interval of
three feet on center; medium shrubs shall be planted at a maximum interval of
four feet on center; and large shrubs shall be planted at a maximum interval of
six feet on center unless; otherwise authorized by the city.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2588.png]
 
      (c)   A wall or fence intended to provide a continuous year round screen
shall block visibility completely.
      (d)   In addition to the shrub cover required in the table above, all
screens shall be planted with large trees every 50 LF, medium trees every 35
LF, small trees every 25 LF, or some combination thereof, along the length of
the screen.
      (e)   Existing vegetative screens should be left in place unless composed
of invasive species or otherwise directed by the city. Existing screens may be
enhanced with new plantings to comply with the requirements.
      (f)   Berms shall be irrigated, have maximum side slopes of 3:1, and have
no less than four inches of topsoil.
      (g)   Permanent walls and fences shall be offset by a minimum of two feet
at intervals of 75 feet maximum length for stability and visual relief (See
illustration).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2590.png]
 
      (h)   Approved permanent wall/fence materials shall include wood, metal,
masonry, concrete stone, or other prefabricated and/or sustainable materials.
Non-decorative concrete block is prohibited for screening walls. Rock face
block or other decorative material is required for masonry walls. Chain link
fences with slats are prohibited for screening walls.
      (i)   Maintenance of the required buffer strip planting and/or fence
shall be the responsibility of the individual property owners or, if
applicable, the homeowners association.
   (7)   Boulevard tree standards.
      (a)   Boulevard trees shall be required in all new residential
subdivisions.
      (b)   Boulevard trees are required at the rate of one tree per lot
frontage for single family and two-family lots. Townhome and multi-family
properties shall provide boulevard trees at a rate of one tree per 70 linear
feet of street frontage where property fronts any public street.
      (c)   Boulevard trees shall be planted within 14 feet of the curb line or
as otherwise determined by the City Forester.
      (d)   Existing trees may be used to fulfill boulevard tree standards at
the city's discretion.
      (e)   The city may, at its discretion, purchase and install the required
boulevard trees. In such case, the city shall collect a standard fee per tree.
Said fee shall be established by the City Council and based on the estimated
market rate cost to purchase and install trees within the development site.
   (8)   Sod and ground cover. All areas not otherwise improved in compliance
with the approved site plans shall have a minimum depth of four inches of
topsoil and be sodded including boulevard areas. Exceptions to these criteria
may be approved by the Zoning Administrator as follows:
      (a)   Seed may be provided in lieu of sod in any of the following cases:
         1.   Where the seed is applied to future expansion areas as shown on
the approved plans, or
         2.   Where the seed is applied adjacent to natural areas or wetlands.
Seed mixture shall be approved by the city, or
         3.   For single family and two family residential properties, proper
erosion control measures shall be implemented and maintained until vegetation
is established. Sod may be required in areas subject to erosion as determined
by the Building Official or City Engineer.
      (b)   Undisturbed areas containing existing viable natural vegetation
which can be maintained free of foreign and noxious plant materials.
      (c)   Areas designated as open space or future expansion areas properly
planted and maintained with native grasses or wild flowers indigenous to
Minnesota. Seed mixture shall be approved by the city.
      (d)   Use of mulch materials such as bark, wood chips, and decorative
rock in support of shrubs and foundation plantings.
      (e)   Native landscapes in compliance with M.S. § 412.925.
   (9)   General landscaping standards.
      (a)   All lot areas not used for off-street parking, off-street loading,
sidewalks, driveways, building sites, or other requirements shall be landscaped
with grass, shrubs, trees or other acceptable vegetation, or treatment as
required by this chapter prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
Exceptions to this requirement are listed in division (15) below of this
section.
      (b)   Commercial, industrial, public/semi-public, institutional, and
multi-family residential uses shall be required to submit a site landscape
plan, in compliance with §
1007.020, Site and Building Plan Review, of this chapter, for approval by the
city prior to issuance of a building permit.
      (c)   Desirable existing trees may be used to fulfill canopy cover,
foundation landscape, and open areas landscape standards if applicable by
placement. Desirable existing trees are valued according to the following
table:
Table 5
 
Existing Tree Value
           deciduous trees under deciduous trees        deciduous trees over 12
           6 inches DBH or       between 6 to 12 inches inches DBH or evergreen
Tree Size  evergreen trees under DBH or evergreen trees trees over 20 feet
           12 feet tall          between 12 to 20 feet  tall.
                                 tall
Tree Value 1 large tree          2 large trees          large trees
 
      (d)   Plantings may be grouped if part of an approved landscape plan.
      (e)   Standards may be met with different sizes of trees and shrubs.
      (f)   New trees may fulfill canopy coverage, foundation landscape,
landscape screen, and open space standards simultaneously if applicable by
location.
      (g)   An existing tree is considered to be removed if the tree trunk is
damaged or if more than 30% of the root protection zone area is disturbed
during the construction process.
      (h)   The city may allow flexibility in landscape standards if there are
conflicts with solar power, wind power, water harvesting, food production, or
other innovative measures proposed for the site.
      (i)   The landscape plan shall be compared to all applicable CPTED (Crime
Prevention Through Environmental Design) standards and reviewed by the Police
Department.
      (j)   Trees and shrubs shall not be planted in the right-of-way without
city authorization and shall not be planted in easements without authorization
from the holder of the easement.
      (k)   Turf slopes in excess of three to one (3:1) are prohibited.
      (l)   Commercial, industrial, multi-family, public/semi-public, and
institutional uses shall install irrigation systems to ensure survivability of
landscape materials.
   (10)   Tree preservation and mitigation standards. The purpose of these
standards is to protect valuable trees and stands of vegetation, while not
interfering with landowners' reasonable use and development of property. The
goal is to minimize unnecessary loss of habitat, biodiversity and forest
resources, and to replace removed trees in areas where tree cover is most
critical. Unless specifically excepted, tree preservation and mitigation
standards apply to all plats, site plans, conditional use permits, interim use
permits, grading, building, and other activity that requires a city permit or
approval.
      (a)   Tree preservation and mitigation standards are described in the
following table:
Table 6
 
Tree Preservation and Mitigation Standards
                  Tree Location:
                  within Basic Use    Tree Location: not within Basic Use Area
Environmentally   Area
Sensitive Area    deciduous trees 6   deciduous trees 6-12 deciduous trees over
(ESA) Category    inches DBH and over inches DBH or        12 inches DBH or
                  or evergreen trees  evergreen trees      evergreen trees over
                  between 12 to 20    between 12 and 20    20 feet tall
                  feet tall           feet tall
Non-ESA           no mitigation       provide one tree per provide two trees
                  required            tree removed         per tree removed
Natural Resource  provide one tree    provide two trees    provide three trees
Enhancement Area  per four trees      per tree removed     per tree removed
                  removed
Natural Resource  provide one tree    provide two trees    provide three trees
Conservation Area per two trees       per tree removed     per tree removed
                  removed
 
      (b)   Trees used for mitigation may also fulfill the open areas landscape
standards at the discretion of the city.
      (c)   Trees with 30% of the roots damaged are considered to be removed
and must be mitigated for at the applicable rates.
      (d)   Undesirable trees are not subject to the tree preservation and
mitigation standards.
      (e)   Areas where trees are being removed for ecological restoration in
accordance with a city approved restoration plan are not subject to the tree
preservation and mitigation.
      (f)   On existing lots with existing buildings where no building or
development activity that requires a permit or approval from the city is
occurring, the removal of trees is not subject to tree preservation and
mitigation standards.
      (g)   Replacement trees shall be planted on site.
      (h)   The applicant may request to pay a fee per tree in lieu of some or
all of the trees required for mitigation. At the city's discretion, the city
may accept the fee for planting trees within the general area of the
development project. The city shall maintain a standard fee per tree based on
the estimated market rate cost to purchase and install trees.
   (11)   Landscaping guidelines and technical specifications. The selection,
installation, and maintenance of all planting materials shall be in compliance
with the City's Landscaping Guidelines and Technical Specifications Manual.
   (12)   Tree survey.
      (a)   A tree survey is required for all property that contains a
significant tree.
      (b)   The tree survey shall be the basis for the tree preservation plan,
tree mitigation standards, and the use of existing trees to fulfill landscape
standards.
      (c)   The tree survey shall provide the following information:
         1.   In the basic use area and other areas where tree removal is
proposed, for all significant trees:
            a.   Tree species
            b.   Size
            c.   Location
            d.   Root protection zone
            e.   Tree condition
         2.   The location of the combined root protection zones of all tree
stands designated for preservation on the development property.
         3.   On adjacent properties, the root protection zone of significant
tree where the root protection zone is within five feet of the development
property.
      (d)   For a new plat or new planned unit development, the tree survey
shall be one plan sheet and the tree preservation plan shall be a separate plan
sheet.
      (e)   For a building permit for a new structure on an existing lot, the
tree survey and preservation information may be included on the lot survey
typically required for a building permit instead of on a separate document. For
a building permit for an addition to an existing structure, the tree survey
information may be provided in an informal medium that sufficiently conveys the
information.
      (f)   At the city's discretion, the tree survey requirement may be waived
under the following circumstances:
         1.   Significant trees will not be removed and are not likely to be
impacted by construction.
         2.   Significant trees will only be removed within the basic use area
and the basic use area is not an ESA.
   (13)   Tree preservation plan.
      (a)   A tree preservation plan shall be required for all soil disturbance
activities where tree preservation and mitigation standards apply. A tree
preservation plan shows how the tree preservation and mitigation standards will
be met and how preserved trees will be protected during construction and other
potentially harmful activities.
      (b)   The tree preservation plan shall be based on the tree survey.
      (c)   If a tree survey shows that no significant trees are on the
development property or adjacent properties are near the construction area, the
city may waive the tree preservation plan requirement.
      (d)   A tree preservation plan shall identify:
         1.   The basic use area and environmentally sensitive areas.
         2.   The disturbance area.
         3.   Tree size (DBH), species, condition, location, and root
protection zone for all significant trees to be preserved, or;
         4.   The combined root protection zone of all stands of trees
designated for preservation, whichever is applicable.
         5.   Location and type of tree protection fence.
         6.   Staging areas.
         7.   Temporary construction access routes when temporary site access
is necessary within root protection zone of any tree or tree stand designated
for preservation.
            a.   Temporary access shall be routed in a manner that is least
disruptive to the tree or tree stand per the approval of the City Forester.
            b.   Temporary access roads shall not exceed 25 feet in width and
shall be delineated by snow fencing or safety fencing.
            c.   An eight-inch deep cover of wood chip mulch shall be placed
over the temporary access route to cushion the root protection zones from
compaction.
         9.   Existing and proposed grading.
         10.   The plan shall show directional felling and trenching to
separate root systems prior to bulldozing trees or stumps if necessary to avoid
damage to adjacent trees.
         11.   The plan shall be coordinated with utility planning so that
utilities are installed in a manner that protects trees intended to be saved.
      (e)   Trees to be preserved shall be tagged in the field and keyed to the
tree preservation plan. The city may inspect the trees to verify compliance
with the preservation plan at any time during construction.
      (f)   If a natural resource management plan has been approved for the
site, the tree preservation plan shall be in compliance with said plan.
      (g)   The following shall occur prior to soil disturbance:
         1.   The tree preservation plan shall be approved by the city.
         2.   Fencing and all tree protection measures shall be installed and
inspected by the city.
         3.   Erosion control measures shall be installed and inspected by the
city.
         4.   All required financial securities have been submitted.
         5.   Any required development agreement has been approved.
   (14)   Tree preservation during construction. Trees that are to be preserved
must be protected by the following methods unless otherwise approved by the
city.
      (a)   Before land clearing, grading, or construction begins, the city
approved tree protection fencing or other method shall be installed and
maintained around the root protection zone of the trees to be protected.
Fencing shall be a minimum of four feet high and of a highly visible material,
such as snow fence or polyethylene laminar safety netting, and must be standing
throughout the construction process. Cut roots with clean, pruning cuts at the
fence line prior to fence installation to avoid later tearing of the roots.
Signage shall be installed to instruct workers to stay out of the root
protection zone.
      (b)   Areas where development must encroach upon the root protection zone
must be identified on the tree preservation plan in which case the fencing
shall be installed at that edge.
      (c)   No actions that may harm the health of the tree; including but not
limited to construction, traffic, compaction, storage of equipment or materials
including soil, grading, or concrete washout areas; may occur in the root
protection zone.
      (d)   Trees damaged by construction, or with more than 30% of the roots
disturbed, shall be counted as removed and mitigated at applicable rates.
      (e)   Tree protection measures shall remain in place until all grading
and construction activity is terminated.
   (15)   Final inspection. Prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy, the project developer, builder, or representative shall certify in
writing to the city that all elements of the tree preservation plan and
landscaping plan were completed. These must be confirmed by the city. However,
the city may issue a certificate of occupancy prior to completion of
landscaping in the following situations:
      (a)   If winter weather will prevent healthy planting practices, a
security shall be posted to ensure the remaining planting is accomplished and
all planting must be installed by June 15 the following spring.
      (b)   A certificate of occupancy may be issued by the city on residential
lots prior to lawn seeding or sod, provided an escrow security is submitted
sufficient to ensure that the work will be completed and the date of completion
is specified.
   (16)   Non-compliance. If the city finds that the property is not in
compliance with the approved landscaping plan or tree preservation plan, it
shall inform the property owner or, if applicable, the homeowners association,
regarding the non-compliance and describe, in writing, the steps needed to
bring the property into compliance within a reasonable timeframe, not to exceed
60 calendar days.
   (17)   Performance security. The city may require performance security to
ensure compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (a)   The performance security shall extend for two years from the date
of planting. The form of the security (cash, letter of credit, or other form)
shall be determined by the city.
      (b)   If after notification of non-compliance the property owner or, if
applicable, the homeowners association, fails to achieve the compliance within
60 calendar days, the city may exercise its authority to use the performance
security to address compliance.
(Am. Ord. 13-23, passed 9-11-2023)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1007.050 FENCES AND RETAINING WALLS.
   Fences and retaining walls shall be permitted in all required yards subject
to the following conditions:
   (1)   Permit required. It is unlawful for any person to construct a fence or
retaining wall without first making an application for and securing a permit.
   (2)   Certificate of survey. An application for a fence or retaining wall
permit shall be accompanied by a current certificate of survey providing exact
lot dimensions; the location of existing buildings, structures, and easements
on the lot; and the location of the proposed fence or retaining wall. At the
discretion of the city, a final plat detail or aerial map of the lot with the
required information shown may suffice if no certificate of survey is
available. Applicant shall be required to physically identify the property
corners for city inspection.
   (3)   Location. All fences or retaining walls shall be located on the
property being fenced or walled.
      (a)   No fence or retaining wall shall be located on public right-of-way.
      (b)   Traffic visibility requirements set forth in City Code Section
1007.042(5)(a)3. shall be satisfactorily met.
      (c)   No fence or retaining wall shall obstruct drainage.
      (d)   Fences or retaining walls may, by permit, be located within public
easements if the following conditions are met:
         1   The fence or retaining wall shall not be located within the 100-
year high water level of a waterbody or watercourse, and
         2.   The drainage shall not be adversely affected by the fence or
retaining wall, and
         3.   The fence or retaining wall shall not interfere in any way with
any existing underground or over ground utility.
         4.   The city or any utility company having authority to use such
public easements, shall not be liable for repair or replacement of such fence,
retaining wall or appurtenance in the event they are moved, damaged, or
destroyed by virtue of the lawful use of said easement.
   (4)   Construction and maintenance.
      (a)   Every fence or retaining wall shall be constructed in a
professional and substantial manner and of substantial material reasonably
suitable for the purpose for which the fence or retaining wall is proposed to
be used. The materials and design shall also be compatible with other
structures in the area in which the fence or retaining wall is located and
shall not cause blight or a negative impact. Chain link fences shall not
include slats or fabric except for use on public recreational facilities or
private sport courts.
      (b)   Every fence or retaining wall shall be maintained in a condition of
reasonable repair and shall not be allowed to become and remain in a condition
of disrepair or danger, or constitute a nuisance, public or private. Any such
fence or retaining wall which is or has become dangerous to the public safety,
health, or welfare is a public nuisance, and the cty shall commence proper
proceedings for the abatement thereof.
      (c)   All posts or similar supporting instruments used in the
construction of fences shall be faced inward toward the property being fenced.
That side of the fence or retaining wall considered to be the face shall be
oriented toward abutting property.
      (d)   Fences which are 90% open (barb wire, chain link, woven wire, and
other similar type fences) which are for the sole purpose of agriculture or
containing farm animals within a rural zoning district are not subject to the
provisions of this chapter but require a zoning permit prior to construction.
Chain link fences shall have round steel parts and braces.
      (e)   Retaining walls (such as masonry construction) greater than 48
inches in height, including buried portions, shall require a building permit.
When utilized, tiered retaining walls shall be separated by a horizontal
landing at least three feet in width.
   (5)   Access. All fences shall have a gate which allows reasonable and
convenient access for public safety.
   (6)   Rural and residential district fences.
      (a)   A fence not exceeding four feet in height may be located in any
yard.
      (b)   Except as prohibited by division (c) below, a fence not exceeding
six feet in height may be located from a line extended from the front wall of
the principal building to the side lot lines, and then along the side lot lines
and the rear lot line (see Diagram 1).
   Diagram 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2592.png]
 
      (c)   Should the rear lot line of a lot be common with the side lot line
of an abutting lot, that portion of the rear or side lot equal to the required
front lot line setback of the abutting lot shall not be fenced or walled to a
height of more than four feet. For the purpose of this section, the front and
side yards of the abutting lot shall be as defined in this chapter rather than
as related to the orientation of the house (see Diagram 2).
   Diagram 2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2594.png]
 
      (d)   Rural and residential fences height exceptions.
         1.   A fence for a sport court not exceeding 12 feet in height may be
located at least ten feet from side and rear lot lines.
         2.   Residential and rural boundary line fences not exceeding eight
feet in height may be located along a lot line abutting a commercial,
industrial, or semi-public use zoning district.
      (e)   Wire fence other than chain link shall not be permitted as boundary
line fences within five feet of the lot line in residential zoning districts.
      (f)   Electrical and barb wire fences shall not be permitted in
residential zoning districts.
   (7)   Business and Industrial District Fences. (See Diagram 3)
   Diagram 3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2609.png]
 
      (a)   A fence not exceeding four feet in height may be located in any
yard.
      (b)   A fence not exceeding eight feet in height may be located parallel
to the front lot line from a front corner of a principal building to a side lot
line that is not adjacent to a street.
      (c)   A fence not exceeding ten feet in height may be located on a rear
lot line or on a side lot line that is not adjacent to a street from a point
where the front wall of a principal building would intersect with a side lot
line extending to the rear lot line.
      (d)   Should the rear lot line be common with the side lot line of an
abutting lot, that portion of the rear lot line equal to the required front lot
line setback of the abutting lot shall not be fenced to a height of more than
four feet.
      (e)   Within commercial and industrial zoning districts, barbed wire may
be attached to the tops of fences subject to the following conditions:
         1.   Fences shall be a minimum of eight feet in height exclusive of
the security arm.
         2.   The security arm shall be angled in such a manner that it extends
only over the property of the permit holder.
         3.   Wire security fencing shall not be located within the front yard
or along a lot line abutting a residential use.
   (8)   Public and semi-public district fences.
      (a)   A fence not exceeding eight feet in height may be located in any
yard.
      (b)   Barbed wire fences used for security purposes may be permitted per
division (7)(e) above.
(Am. Ord. 13-23, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 1007.051 SUBMISSION OF PERMIT AND SITE PLAN.
   Any person desiring to develop or improve property shall submit to the
Community Development Department a permit and site plan, or certificate of
survey in compliance with §
1007.020(2)(b) as determined by the Zoning Administrator, and any other
information which may be necessary to ensure compliance with city ordinances.
§ 1007.052 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish minimum
requirements for off-street parking of motor vehicles in order to alleviate or
prevent congestion of the public right-of-way and to promote the safety and
general welfare of the public.
   (2)   Application of off-street parking regulations. These regulations and
requirements shall apply to all off-street parking areas in all of the zoning
districts of the city.
   (3)   General provisions.
      (a)   Space reduction. Existing off-street parking spaces upon the
effective date of this chapter shall not be reduced in number unless said
number exceeds the requirements set forth herein for a similar new use.
      (b)   Existing uses. Should a legal, non-conforming building, structure,
or use in existence upon the effective date of this ordinance be damaged or
destroyed by fire or other cause, it may be re-established in compliance with §
1007.041 of this chapter, except that in so doing, any off-street parking or
loading which existed must be retained.
      (c)   Change of use or occupancy of buildings. Any change of use or
occupancy of any building or buildings including additions requiring more off-
street parking areas shall not be permitted until there is furnished such
additional off-street parking spaces as required by these zoning regulations.
      (d)   Use of off-street parking area. Required off-street parking areas
in any district shall not be utilized for outdoor storage of goods or for the
storage of motor vehicles which are inoperable or for sale or for rent.
      (e)   Accessible off-street parking. All off-street parking associated
with any building, structure or use shall be required to conform to the
disability accessible parking standards pursuant to M.S. § 169.346, as may be
amended.
      (f)   Use of off-street parking areas in a residential district. Except
as allowed under division (11) below of this section, off-street parking areas
accessory to a residential use shall be utilized solely for the parking of
passenger motor vehicles, recreational vehicles, and/or one truck not to exceed
12,000 pounds gross weight rating for each dwelling.
      (g)   Calculating space.
         1.   The term “floor area” for the purpose of calculating the number
of off-street parking spaces required shall be determined on the basis of the
exterior floor area dimensions of the buildings, structure or use times the
number of floors, minus 10%, except when floor plans are submitted that
identify net usable floor area of the building exclusive of ancillary floor
areas that do not generate parking demand (e.g., stair wells, hallways,
restrooms, closets, utility rooms).
         2.   When determining the number of off-street parking spaces results
in a fraction, each fraction of one-half or more shall constitute another
space.
         3.   In gymnasiums, churches and other places of public assembly in
which patrons or spectators occupy benches, pews or other similar seating
facilities, each 18 inches of such seating facilities shall be counted as one
seat for the purpose of determining requirements.
         4.   Except as provided for under joint parking and shopping centers,
should a building or structure contain two or more types of use, each use shall
be calculated separately for determining the total off-street parking spaces
required.
         5.   In hospitals, bassinets shall not be counted as beds.
      (h)   Parking space, aisle and driveway design.
         1.   Off-street parking area standards. Off-street parking areas and
the aisles shall be developed in compliance with the following standards:
Table 1
 
Angle of Parking Space Width Space Length Aisle Width  Aisle Width
                                          One Way      Two Way
90               9 feet      18 feet      24 feet      24 feet
75               9 feet      18 feet      22 feet      23 feet
60               9 feet      18 feet      18 feet      22 feet
45               9 feet      18 feet      15 feet      22 feet
0                9 feet      22 feet      12 feet      24 feet
 
         2.   Within structures. The off-street parking requirements may be
furnished by providing a space so designed within the principal building or one
structure attached thereto. No building permit shall be issued to convert said
parking structure into a dwelling unit or living area or other activity until
other adequate provisions are made to comply with the required off- street
parking provisions of this chapter.
         3.   Collector/minor arterial street access. Access to any street
shown as a collector or arterial roadway on the city's transportation plan
shall require review and comment by the affected agency (Anoka County Highway
Engineer or MnDOT) and city. This review shall be required prior to the
issuance of any building permits. The County or City Engineer shall determine
the appropriate location, size and design of each access drive and may limit
the number of access drives in the interest of public safety and efficient
traffic flow.
         4.   Street/alley access. Except in the case of single, two family and
townhouse dwellings, off-street parking areas shall be designed so that
circulation between parking spaces or aisles occurs within the designated
parking lot and does not depend upon a public street or alley. Except in the
case of single, two family and townhouse dwellings, off-street parking area
design which requires backing into the public street is prohibited. New
residential subdivisions shall be designed to limit direct lot access onto any
street shown as a collector or arterial roadway on the city's Transportation
Plan.
         5.   Tandem parking. The required off-street parking spaces serving
single family and two-family dwellings may be designed for parking two motor
vehicles in a tandem arrangement for each dwelling unit in order to comply with
the requirements of this chapter.
         6.   Curb cut/driveway access location.
            a.   No curb cut/driveway access shall be located less than 30 feet
from the intersection of two or more local or minor street rights-of-way. This
distance shall be measured from the intersection of lot lines. Curb cut/
driveway access setbacks from the intersection of streets with higher
functional classifications shall be consistent with the recommendations of the
Comprehensive Plan and require approval by the City Engineer.
               i.   Street functional classification shall be defined by the
Lino Lakes Comprehensive Plan.
               ii.   The setback measurement shall be measured from the edge of
the street right-of-way to the nearest edge of the curb cut.
               iii.   Driveways onto arterials and major collectors shall be
prohibited where alternative street access is available. For existing lots of
record, where alternative access is not available, direct access onto arterial
and major collectors may be permitted, provided a site plan is submitted for
review and approval of the City Engineer. Approval is also subject to the
conditions of this chapter.
            b.   Curb cut/driveway access on a public street shall be located
at least 40 feet from one another except for single family, two-family, and
townhouse dwellings.
            c.   Curb cut/driveway access shall be a minimum of five (5) feet
from the side lot line in all districts, except shared driveways approved by
the City Engineer. Any shared driveway shall include a maintenance and access
agreement.
            d.   A single family detached dwelling in a residential zoning
district shall not have more than one driveway.
            e.   A single-family detached dwelling in a rural zoning district
may have one or more driveways provided they are at least 40 feet from one
another. No second driveway shall be allowed onto a major collector or arterial
street as defined by the city's Transportation Plan.
         7.   Curb cut/driveway width. No curb cut shall exceed 28 feet in
width within a rural or residential zoning district, or 36 feet in width if the
property is in a commercial, industrial, or public/semi-public zoning district,
as measured at the street right-of-way line unless approved by the City
Engineer. The driveway associated with such curb cut may increase in width at
an angle not greater than 45 degrees. (See Diagram 4)
   Diagram 4
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2625.jpg]
         8.   Emergency vehicle access.
            a.   Access drives to principal buildings or structures which
traverse wooded, steep or open field areas shall be constructed and maintained
to a width and base material depth sufficient to support access by emergency
vehicles. All access drives (driveways) shall comply with the following
requirements:
Table 2
 
DRIVEWAY/ACCESS STANDARDS
              Rural and Residential Districts    Business, Industrial, PSP
                                                 Districts
Maximum Slope 10 foot vertical rise in 100       8 feet vertical rise in 100
              horizontal feet                    horizontal feet
              10 foot wide driveway base.
              Vegetation should be cleared to 8  20 feet driveway base or as
Minimum Width feet on each side of driveway      approved by Community Engineer
              centerline from the roadway to the
              front lot line.
 
            b.   All property shall have direct, adequate, physical access for
emergency vehicles along the frontage of the lot from either an existing
dedicated public roadway or an approved private roadway.
            c.   In addition to the required direct physical access along the
frontage of the property to the approved public or private street, a property
may have existing private easement access drives over adjacent properties.
         9.   Grade elevation. The grade elevation of a parking lot shall not
exceed 5%.
         10.   Striping. All parking spaces shall be marked with white or
yellow painted lines at least four inches wide except for single, two-family,
townhouses, and green parking lots.
         11.   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking
area shall be arranged as to reflect the light away from the adjoining
property. All exterior lighting shall comply with §
1007.046.
         12.   Curbing and landscaping. All open off-street parking shall have
a continuous concrete perimeter curb barrier around the entire parking lot
except for single, two-family, and townhouses. Said curb barrier shall not be
closer than the required parking setback of the respective zoning district.
Grass, plantings, or screening shall be provided in all areas bordering the
parking area. Curbed islands or peninsulas shall be installed to promote the
safe and efficient flow of traffic, regardless of parking lot size.
         13.   Off-street parking area landscaping.
            a.   All open off-street parking areas of six or more required
spaces shall be landscaped on all sides in compliance with §
1007.049.
            b.   Within off-street parking areas of 50 or more spaces,
irrigated landscaped islands or peninsulas or rain gardens shall be provided at
a rate of 100 square feet per 25 surface spaces or fraction thereof. Such
islands or peninsulas shall be contained within raised, curbed beds consistent
with other applicable parking lot construction requirements of this ordinance.
It is not the intent of this section to relieve a project of the installation
of islands or peninsulas that are necessary to promote the safe and efficient
flow of traffic, regardless of parking lot size.
            c.   No landscaping or screening shall interfere with drive or
pedestrian visibility for vehicle entering, circulating or exiting the
premises.
         14.   Cart storage. Retail commercial uses that have customer service
carts shall be required to provide ample space for the storage of carts within
off-street parking areas, subject to the approval of the Zoning Administrator.
The need and specific amount of required cart storage space shall be determined
as part of site plan review. When required, cart storage areas shall not occupy
required off-street parking space, shall be clearly delineated, and shall
include facilities for cart confinement.
         15.   Surfacing. All driveways, approaches, sales lots, and off-street
parking areas shall be hard surfaced using concrete, asphalt or equivalent
materials as approved by the City Engineer except as follows:
            a.   In business, industrial, and public and semi-public zoning
districts the city may allow up to 25% of the required off-street parking
spaces be provided as green parking with a turf surface supported by a city
approved parking lot sub-base and a turf-guard fabric.
            b.   In rural and residential zoning districts on lots one acre in
size or greater, class 5 gravel or other surfacing material may be allowed as
approved by the City Engineer. Any driveways on a paved street shall be hard
surfaced from the edge of the paved street to the lot line.
            c.   A permit is required for the installation of a new driveway or
the replacement of an existing driveway.
   (4)   Maintenance. It shall be the joint responsibility of the operator and
owner of the principal use, uses and/or buildings to maintain, in a neat and
adequate manner, the off-street parking space, access ways, landscaping and
required screening.
   (5)   Location. All off-street parking areas required by this chapter shall
be located and restricted as follows:
      (a)   Required off-street parking areas shall be located on the same lot
under the same ownership as the principal use being served, except under the
provisions of divisions (8) and (9) below of this section.
      (b)   Off-street parking spaces for one- and two-family dwellings shall
be located on the same lot as the principal use served.
      (c)   Off-street parking spaces for multiple-family dwellings shall be
located on the same lot as the principal use served and within 200 feet of the
main entrance to the principal building served.
      (d)   Off-street parking spaces for uses in a business, industrial, or
public and semipublic district shall be located within 800 feet of a main
entrance to the principal building served.
      (e)   Off-street parking spaces shall not be located within a public
right-of-way.
      (f)   Off-street parking areas shall meet the setback standard of the
respective zoning district.
      (g)   Off-street parking spaces for single family dwellings, two-family
dwellings, and townhouse dwellings shall not be located in the front yard
except designated driveways leading directly into a garage. One off-street
parking space may be located on the side of a driveway, away from the principal
use. This parking space shall be surfaced in a manner consistent with division
(3)(h)15. above of this section.
   (6)   Number of spaces required. The following minimum number of off-street
parking spaces shall be provided and maintained by ownership, easement and/or
lease for and during the life of the respective uses hereinafter set forth:
Table 3
Use Number of Parking Spaces Required
Use                                     Number of Parking Spaces Required
Single Family and Two family Dwellings  2 spaces per unit.
                                        At least 1 space for each person for
Boarding House/Accessory Apartment      whom sleeping accommodations are
                                        provided.
                                        2 rent-free spaces per unit. In
Townhouses and Manufactured Home Parks  projects involving 8 or more units,
                                        guest parking at a rate of 1 space per
                                        3 units shall be provided.
                                        2 rent-free spaces per unit. A minimum
Multiple-Family Dwellings               of one-half of the required parking
                                        spaces shall be within the building.
                                        1.5 spaces per independent living
                                        apartment unit other than studio
Senior Housing                          apartments. Studio apartments require 1
                                        space per unit. Half of the parking
                                        spaces for independent living shall be
                                        underground.
Rest Home, Nursing Home, Convalescent   1 space for each 6 beds based upon
Center, or Assisted-Living              maximum design capacity plus 1 space
                                        for each 2 employees.
Hospitals                               2 spaces for each bed.
                                        At least 3 parking spaces per
                                        classroom, plus necessary spaces for
Schools, Elementary and Junior High     student drop off. Auditoriums and
                                        special events space shall be
                                        calculated separately.
                                        1 space for each classroom plus 1
High School and Colleges                additional space for each 7 students
                                        based upon maximum design capacity.
                                        At least 1 parking space for each 3
                                        seats based on the design capacity of
                                        the main assembly hall. Facilities as
Church, Theater, Auditorium             may be provided in conjunction with
                                        such buildings or uses shall be subject
                                        to additional requirements which are
                                        imposed by this ordinance.
Community Centers, Libraries, Private   1 space for each 300 square feet of
Clubs, Lodges, Museums, Art Galleries   floor area in the principal structure.
Day Care Facilities                     1 space for each 300 square feet of
                                        floor area.
Office Buildings, Veterinary Hospitals, 1 space for each 200 square feet of
Professional Offices, and Medical       floor area.
Clinics
Financial Institutions, Banks, Savings  1 space for each 250 square feet of
and Loan                                floor area.
Health Club                             1 space for each 300 square feet of
                                        floor area.
Retail Store and Service Establishment  1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                        floor area.
Shopping Centers                        1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                        floor area (exclusive of common areas).
Retail Sales and Service Business with  At least 8 spaces or 1 space for each
50% or More of Gross Floor area Devoted 200 square feet devoted to public sales
to Storage, Warehouses and/or Industry  or service, plus 1 space for each 500
                                        square feet of storage area.
Restaurants, Cafes, Private Clubs       1 space for each 100 square feet of
Serving Food and/or Drinks, Bars, On-   dining room, plus 1 space for each
Sale Nightclubs                         employee of the maximum work shift.
Fast Food Restaurant                    1 space for each 67 square feet of
                                        gross floor area.
                                        1 space per each rental unit plus 1
Motels, Motor Hotels, Hotels            space for each 8 units, and 1 space for
                                        each employee on any shift.
Motor Fuel Station                      1 space for each 250 square feet of
                                        gross floor area.
Auto Repair                             4 spaces plus 2 spaces per service bay.
                                        1 space for each 250 square feet of
Motor Vehicle Sales Lot                 floor area of the building plus 1 space
                                        per each 2,000 square feet of gross
                                        land area.
                                        1 space per employee plus:
                                        Drive-through: 10 stacking spaces.
Commercial Car Wash                     Self-service: 1 stacking space per wash
                                        bay.
                                        Motor fuel stations: None in addition
                                        to that required for the principal use.
Garden Supply Store, Building Material  8 spaces, plus 1 space for 800 square
Sales in Structure                      feet of floor area over 1,000 square
                                        feet.
Private Racquetball, Handball and       6 spaces per court.
Tennis Courts
Indoor Sports Arenas, Private Skating   20 spaces, plus 1 space for each 200
Rink, Dance Hall, or Public Auction     square feet of floor space over 2,000
House                                   square feet.
Golf Driving Range, Miniature Golf,     10 spaces plus 1 space for each 100
Archery Range                           square feet of floor space of building.
                                        4 spaces per hole, plus 50% of the
Golf Courses                            requirements for any other associated
                                        use.
Bowling Alley                           5 spaces for each alley, plus
                                        additional spaces for related uses.
Funeral Homes and Mortuaries            20 spaces for each chapel or parlor,
                                        plus 1 space for each funeral vehicle.
Contractors' Offices, Shops and Yards   2 spaces for each employee.
Light Manufacturing                     1 space for each 500 square feet of
                                        gross floor area.
Warehousing, Storage of Handling of     1 space for each 2,000 square feet of
Bulk Goods                              gross floor area.
                                        Any use not in the parking requirements
Other Uses                              in this section shall be assigned a
                                        parking requirement by the Community
                                        Development Director or designee.
 
   (7)   Parking deferment. The city may reduce the number of required off-
street parking spaces for business, industrial, and institutional uses by
administrative permit provided that:
      (a)   The applicant must demonstrate that the proposed use will have a
peak parking demand less than the required off-street parking under division
(6) above of this section. Factors to be considered when reviewing the proposed
parking demand shall include, but not be limited to:
         1.   Size of building.
         2.   Type and use.
         3.   Number of employees.
         4.   Projected volume and turnover of customer traffic.
         5.   Projected frequency and volume of delivery or service vehicles.
         6.   Number of company-owned vehicles.
         7.   Storage of vehicles on site.
      (b)   In no case shall the amount of off-street parking provided be less
than one-half of the amount of parking required by ordinance.
      (c)   The site has sufficient property under the same ownership to
accommodate the expansion of the parking area to meet the minimum requirements
of this ordinance if the parking demand exceeds on site supply.
      (d)   Off-street parking shall only occur in areas designed and
constructed for parking in compliance with this chapter.
      (e)   The applicant and city enter into an agreement, to be recorded
against the subject property, which includes a clause requiring the owner to
install the additional off-street parking spaces, upon a finding of the
Community Development Director that such additional parking spaces are
necessary to accommodate the use.
      (f)   A change of use will necessitate compliance with the applicable
Zoning Ordinance standard for off-street parking.
   (8)   Joint off-street parking areas. Off-street parking areas for a
combination of mixed buildings, structures, or uses may be provided
collectively in any non-residential zoning district in which separate parking
areas for each separate building, structure or use would be required, provided
that the total number of spaces provided shall equal the sum of the separate
requirements of each use during any peak parking periods. Shared curb cuts and
access drives shall be encouraged for lots accessing collector and arterial
streets. Where shared access and parking are utilized, easements shall be
located on the shared area and recorded with the properties and a maintenance
agreement required.
   (9)   Control of off-site parking areas. When required off-street parking
areas are provided on a different property in which the principal use is
located, the parking area shall be in the same ownership, or controlled either
by deed or long term lease as the property occupied by such principal use. The
owner of the principal use shall file a recordable document with the city
requiring the owner and their heirs and assigns to maintain the required number
of off-street spaces during the existence of said principal use.
   (10)   Traffic control.
      (a)   The traffic generated by any use shall be channelized and
controlled in a manner that it will minimize:
         1.   Congestion on the public streets.
         2.   Traffic hazards.
         3.   Excessive traffic through residential areas, particularly truck
traffic.
      (b)   Internal traffic shall be regulated as to ensure its safe and
orderly flow. Traffic with direct access to a collector street or arterial
street shall in all cases be forward moving with no backing into streets.
Direct residential lot access to collector and arterial streets shall be
prohibited wherever alternative local street access is available.
   (11)   Motor vehicle off-street parking in residential and rural zoning
districts.
      (a)   Passenger motor vehicles and motorcycles may be parked or driven on
a residential or rural property provided that:
         1.   They are parked or driven on an appropriate surface leading to
the parking area in compliance with division (3)(h)15 of this section.
         2.   They are operable and appropriately licensed at all times they
are parked outside of an accessory building.
         3.   They are set back a minimum of five feet from side and rear lot
lines, except in cases where a shared driveway has been approved by the City
Engineer.
         4.   When parked in the front yard or corner side yard of a property,
they are parked on a designated driveway or parking area.
      (b)   Recreational vehicles and trailers, as defined by §
1007.001, may be parked or stored on a residential or rural property provided
that:
         1.   The vehicles are registered to or rented by a resident of the
dwelling on such property, provided that:
            a.   The vehicles have affixed thereto current registration or
license plates as required by law.
            b.   The vehicles are stored no closer than five feet from side and
rear lot lines.
            c.   The vehicles located within front yard areas are confined to
designated driveways or parking areas surfaced in compliance with division (3)
(h)15.
         2.   All front yard storage shall comply with the following setbacks
from street curb and pavement lines:
   Table 4
 
Street Classification     Minimum setback from curb/pavement line
Arterial                  30 feet
Major Collector           20 feet
Minor Collector and Local 15 feet
 
         3.   No vehicle shall be parked in a manner that blocks a city or
county sidewalk, park, or trail.
         4.   The vehicles are not connected to any water or sewage disposal
system on the residential or rural property where the same is so parked or
stored.
         5.   A recreational vehicle or trailer shall not be utilized for
storage of goods, materials, or equipment other than those items considered to
be part of the unit or essential for its immediate use.
         6.   No recreational vehicle may be used as a living quarter while
stored/parked on a residential or rural property.
      (c)   Motor Vehicles exceeding a gross weight rating of 12,000 pounds.
         1.   No motor vehicle, except recreational vehicle, exceeding a gross
weight rating of 12,000 pounds shall be parked or stored, indoors or outdoors,
in a residential zoning district, or on a lot of less than two and one-half
acres in a rural zoning district, except when loading, unloading, or rendering
a service.
            a.   An administrative permit may be obtained from the Community
Development Department for the temporary parking or storage of motor vehicles
that comply with the following requirements:
               i.   The motor vehicle is operable and appropriately licensed at
all times.
               ii.   The vehicle shall not be parked or stored for more than 72
hours within a seven-day period excluding legal holidays.
               iii.   The vehicle shall be parked or stored behind the front of
the dwelling.
               iv.   No more than one permit shall be granted per residence.
               v.   Neither the truck engine nor any other motorized component
shall be left running while the vehicle is parked or stored.
               vi.   There shall be a minimum of 150 feet from the vehicle to
the nearest lot line.
               vii.   The vehicle and trailer shall remain connected.
               viii.   All parking permits shall be reviewed and renewed on
July 1 of each year at a fee established by the City Council. If at any time
the conditions or requirements of permit approval are violated, the permit may
be revoked.
         2.   On lots two and one-half acres or greater in rural zoning
districts, no more than two motor vehicles exceeding a gross weight rating of
12,000 pounds shall be parked or stored, indoors or outdoors. Vehicles parked
or stored shall meet the following requirements:
            a.   The motor vehicles are operable and appropriately licensed at
all times.
            b.   Neither the truck engine nor any other motorized component
shall be left running while the vehicle is parked or stored.
            c.   There shall be a minimum of 150 feet from the vehicle to the
nearest lot line.
            d.   The vehicle and trailer shall remain connected.
(Am. Ord. 13-23, passed 9-11-2023)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1007.053 OFF-STREET LOADING SPACES.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish the minimum
requirements for off-street loading spaces in order to alleviate or prevent
congestion of the public right-of-way related to the loading and unloading of
motor vehicles.
   (2)   Location. Off-street loading spaces are subject to the following
conditions:
      (a)   Loading spaces shall be off-street.
      (b)   Loading spaces shall be located on the same lot as the building or
use being served.
      (c)   Loading spaces shall be at least 50 feet from a residential
district.
      (d)   Loading spaces may be located in the front yard if the lot has more
than one frontage on a public right-of-way.
         1.   The loading space shall be located on the frontage that has the
least significant impact as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
         2.   Additional landscaping and earth berming shall be required to
reduce the visual impact of the loading space as determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (3)   Size. Loading spaces shall be of a size determined by the city as
necessary to accommodate anticipated truck and service vehicles.
   (4)   Access. Loading spaces shall be located with appropriate means of
vehicular access to a street or public alley in a manner which will least
interfere with traffic and allow on-site maneuvering.
   (5)   Surfacing. Loading spaces and access ways shall be surfaced with a
bituminous, concrete, or other material approved by the City Engineer.
   (6)   Accessory use. Any space allocated as a loading space or maneuvering
areas shall not be used for the storage of goods, inoperable vehicles or to be
included as a part of the space requirements necessary to meet the off-street
parking requirements.
   (7)   Off-Street Loading Space Required. In connection with any structure
which is to be constructed or substantially altered, any which requires the
receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by trucks or similar
vehicles, there shall be provided off-street loading space.
   (8)   Noise. Where noise from loading or unloading activity is determined to
be an audible nuisance in a residential district per §
1007.047(4) of this chapter, the City Council may limit the hours of operation.
   (9)   Screening. Except in the case of multiple dwellings, all loading
spaces shall be screened and landscaped from abutting and surrounding
residential uses in compliance with §
1007.049 of this chapter.
§ 1007.054 PRIVATE STREETS.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish minimum
requirements for private streets in order to alleviate or prevent congestion of
the public right-of-way and to promote the safety and general welfare of the
public.
   (2)   Requirements. In conjunction with the review of two-family, townhouse,
or multiple-family residential plats, the City Council may approve private
streets that serve more than one dwelling unit if the following conditions are
met. Private streets serving business, industrial, or special district
developments shall require a Planned Unit Development (PUD) in compliance with
§
1007.024 of this chapter.
      (a)   The City Council finds that the private street is deemed necessary
to allow reasonable development of a particular site, and that such private
street is not allowed or intended to be a substitute for the public street
system.
      (b)   The private street shall not exceed 300 feet in length unless it
forms a continuous connection or loops back to a public street. A private
street over 150 feet in length that does not form a continuous connection or
loop back to a public street shall provide a turn-around at or near its
terminus, in compliance with City General Specifications and Standard Detail
Plates.
      (c)   The private street shall gain access only from streets classified
as “local” or “minor collector” by the City's Comprehensive Plan.
      (d)   The private street shall gain access from the public street and
shall maintain the street drainage with concrete curb and gutter per City
Standard Specifications for Construction. Private street access on urban and
rural streets shall have at a minimum a five-foot bituminous or concrete apron.
The remainder of the private street shall be designed, constructed and surfaced
as approved by the City Engineer.
      (e)   The private street shall be a minimum of 26 feet wide. No parking
shall be allowed on the private street, however, guest parking spaces may be
required to be installed adjacent to the private street, as determined by the
City Council.
      (f)   Individual unit driveways that gain access from the private street
shall be a minimum of 25 feet in length.
      (g)   Approval of the private street shall not be granted if the private
street is to be located within a separate lot.
      (h)   Street signs shall be designed and installed in compliance with
City General Specifications and Standard Detail Plates.
      (i)   Signage stating “No Parking - Fire Lane” shall be located along the
private street in locations as approved by the City Fire Inspector.
      (j)   A homeowners association agreement or other instrument acceptable
to the city shall be required to ensure that the private street remains
“private” in perpetuity. Such instrument shall require mandatory participation
of all homeowners that have access via the private street and shall include the
requirement for creation of a fund to address maintenance, snow removal, and
future reconstruction of the private street in accord with City General
Specifications and Standard Detail Plates. A copy of such instrument shall be
filed with the city as a matter of public record.
§ 1007.055 RELOCATED STRUCTURES.
   Before any house or other structure is moved onto a lot, a building permit
must be obtained in compliance with §
1007.019 of this chapter. The Community Development Department shall conduct a
site plan review and determine whether the structure will be compatible with
other development in the area, and conform to all city codes and ordinances.
The Community Development Department may withhold issuance of a building permit
if it determines that the structure does not meet the performance standards of
this chapter.
§ 1007.056 HOME OCCUPATION PERMITS.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide a means by which
home occupations can be conducted as an accessory use to a residential dwelling
unit, as a use that is clearly incidental and secondary to a residential use on
the same premises, without jeopardizing the health, safety and general welfare
of the surrounding neighborhood or the inhabitants of the home occupation
property, and without jeopardizing the residential character of the
neighborhood.
   (2)   Application. All occupations conducted in the home shall comply with
the provisions of this section except as follows:
      (a)   Permitted agricultural/farm related uses in the R and R-
X Districts.
      (b)   The limited seasonal sale of products grown solely on the site by
the residents of the homestead.
      (c)   Day care when licensed by the state and/or county.
      (d)   Any other use listed as a permitted, conditional, or interim use
within the corresponding zoning district.
      (e)   Any use allowed by an existing conditional or interim use permit.
      (f)   Garage sales in compliance with the following:
         1.   Each property is limited to four garage sales per year.
         2.   Each sale is limited to three days.
         3.   Signs must be in conformance with
Chapter 1010 of this title.
   (3)   Procedure.
      (a)   Home Occupation Level A does not require an application, review, or
permit as long as the business complies with the general provisions listed in
division (6) below, and the requirements of the Home Occupation Level A listed
in division (7) below.
      (b)   Home Occupation Level B requires the following:
         1.   Application for a Home Occupation Level B shall be filed by the
property owner or designated agent on forms to be provided by the city, and
shall be accompanied by:
            a.   A non-refundable fee as established by City Council ordinance;
and
            b.   Site and building plans as necessary to prove compliance with
the general provisions of division (6) below, and the requirements of the Home
Occupation Level B listed in division (8) below.
         2.   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application and shall
determine whether the proposal is in compliance with all applicable evaluation
criteria, ordinances, and applicable performance standards set forth in the
ordinance. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant, in writing, of
any incomplete application within 15 business days of the date of submission.
      (c)   Home Occupation Level C requires an interim use permit. the
procedure for an interim use permit is described in §
1007.017.
   (4)   Violations. After two founded nuisances, or code violation complaints
have been made and verified with written notices to the home occupation, a
public hearing may be called to consider additional conditions, limitations, or
revocation of the home occupation within 60 days of the last complaint. Home
Occupation Level C, which requires an interim use permit, shall be subject to
the revocation clause included in §
1007.017.
   (5)   Expiration.
      (a)   Upon issuance, a Home Occupation Level B permit shall continue to
be valid unless one or all of the following occur:
         1.   The business owner relocates to another residential address;
permits are not transferable to another person or property.
         2.   The type of businesses occurring on the site changes
significantly.
         3.   The permit is revoked by the city per division (4) above.
      (b)   A Home Occupation Level C, approved as part of an interim use
permit application, shall comply with §
1007.017.
   (6)   Requirements - general provisions. All home occupations shall comply
with the following requirements:
      (a)   General provisions.
         1.   The home occupation shall be operated by an occupant of the
dwelling.
         2.   The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
the residential use of the premises, and shall not change the residential
character thereof.
         3.   The home occupation shall comply with all requirements of
Chapter 901 of this code and shall not be incompatible or disturbing to the
surrounding residential uses.
         4.   No home occupation shall require internal or external alterations
or involve construction features not customarily found in residential dwellings
except where required to comply with local and state fire and police
recommendations.
         5.   The home occupation shall meet all applicable fire and building
codes, and applicable permits must be obtained prior to any construction
activities.
         6.   No exterior evidence of the presence of the home occupation on
the property, except any signage allowed by the sign code and any vehicles
allowed by §
1007.044(11).
         7.   Personal motor vehicles not exceeding a gross weight rating of
12,000 pounds used in the home occupation may be parked on the property.
         8.   Any motor vehicle with a gross weight rating in excess of 12,000
pounds is subject to §
1007.044(11)(c).
         9.   The number of on-site parking spaces shall not be reduced to less
than two.
         10.   In no case shall the permitted home occupation cause the need
for an additional driveway access to the property.
         11.   When applicable, all state licensing requirements shall be met.
         12.   The applicant shall demonstrate the home occupation use is
within the capabilities of the property's sewage treatment system or the city's
utility system.
         13.   There shall be no use or outdoor storage of any toxic chemicals
or hazardous materials of any type or in any amount not normally found in a
residential structure.
         14.   No motor vehicle repair, paint or body work; commercial
preparation of food for service on the premise; business related to or
involving explosives, ammunition or weapons; or ambulance or related emergency
services shall be permitted as a home occupation.
   (7)   Requirements - Home Occupation Level A. All residential dwelling units
are eligible for a Home Occupation Level A. In addition to the general
provisions outlined in division (6) above, businesses must also comply with the
following requirements specific to the Home Occupation Level A.
      (a)   Requirements.
         1.   Permitted home occupation shall be confined to the dwelling unit,
and shall not be conducted in any accessory structure on the property,
including an attached garage.
         2.   No customers or employees who do not reside at the dwelling may
be permitted on the property.
         3.   If the home occupation will require a delivery service, such as
UPS, no more than ten delivery/pickup trips per week shall be permitted.
         4.   The home occupation may not occupy more than 10% of the dwelling.
         5.   All off-street parking generated by the home occupation shall be
confined to the driveway.
         6.   The operation of any wholesale or retail business is prohibited,
unless it is conducted entirely by mail or by occasional home invitation.
   (8)   Requirements - Home Occupation Level B. All residential dwelling units
are eligible for a Home Occupation Level B. In addition to the general
provisions outlined in division (6) above, businesses must also comply with the
following requirements specific to the Home Occupation Level B.
      (a)   Requirements.
         1.   Permitted home occupation may be conducted in an accessory
structure provided that the use can comply with life safety requirements.
         2.   A limit of two customers or employees who do not reside at the
dwelling may be permitted on the property at one time.
         3.   Areas accessible to customers or employees shall comply with all
applicable life safety codes.
         4.   Vehicle trips generated by the business shall not exceed 20 in
any 24-hour period.
         5.   If the home occupation will require a delivery service, such as
UPS, no more than ten delivery/pickup trips per week shall be permitted.
         6.   If the home occupation is to occupy more than 10% of the
dwelling, additional building and fire code issues may need to be addressed.
         7.   All off-street parking generated by the home occupation shall be
provided on a hard surface in or adjacent to the driveway.
         8.   Personal Service Businesses shall be limited to allow the
servicing a single customer at a time.
         9.   Between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. no customers or
employees who do not reside on the site may be at the site and no business
operations occurring outside of the dwelling are permitted. For the purpose of
this section, an attached garage does not count as part of the dwelling.
         10.   The operation of any wholesale or retail business is prohibited,
unless:
            a.   It is conducted entirely by mail or occasional home
invitation;
            b.   It is exclusively the sale of products produced on-site; or
            c.   It is clearly incidental to a service provided on the site.
   (9)   Requirements - Home Occupation Level C. All properties with a
dwelling, zoned Rural, Rural Executive, or Future Urban Development, and
fronting on an arterial or major collector roadway are eligible to apply for an
interim use permit to allow a Home Occupation Level C. In addition to the
general provisions outlined in division (6) above, businesses must also comply
with the following requirements specific to the Home Occupation Level C.
      (a)   Requirements.
         1.   The property shall be a minimum of ten acres in size.
         2.   Permitted home occupation may be conducted in an accessory
structure provided that the use can comply with life safety requirements.
         3.   A limit of five customers or employees who do not reside at the
dwelling may be permitted on the property at one time.
         4.   Areas accessible to customers or employees shall comply with all
applicable life safety codes.
         5.   Vehicle trips generated by the business shall not exceed 40 in
any 24-hour period.
         6.   If the home occupation will require a delivery service, such as
UPS, no more than 15 delivery/pickup trips per week shall be permitted.
         7.   If the home occupation is to occupy more than 10% of the
dwelling, additional building and fire code issues may need to be addressed.
         8.   All off-street parking generated by the home occupation shall be
provided on a hard surface in or adjacent to the driveway.
         9.   Personal service businesses shall be limited to allow the
servicing of only two customers at a time.
         10.   Between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. no customers or
employees who do not reside on the site may be at the site and no business
operations occurring outside of the main dwelling are permitted. For the
purpose of this section, an attached garage does not count as part of the main
dwelling.
         11.   The limited operation of any wholesale or retail business is
allowed.
   (10)   Additional limitations and/or restrictions.
      (a)   So as to maintain compatibility with the rural and residential
character of the neighborhood and to protect the health, safety and general
welfare of the public, the city may impose additional limitations or
requirements as it deems necessary.
      (b)   The city may impose the posting of a security in order to ensure
compliance with any condition imposed.
   (11)   Inspection. The City of Lino Lakes hereby reserves the right, upon
approval of any home occupation permit or interim use permit for a Home
Occupation Level C, to inspect the premises in which the occupation is being
conducted to ensure compliance with the provisions of this section or any
conditions additionally imposed.
   (12)   Penalty. Violation of the home occupation performance standards shall
be subject to the enforcement and penalty provisions of §
1007.023 of this chapter.
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1007.057 ACCESSORY APARTMENTS.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide standards for the
establishment and use of accessory apartments in owner-occupied single family
detached dwellings.
   (2)   Application. All accessory apartments as defined in §
1007.001(2) of this chapter, established after the effective date of this
chapter shall comply with the requirements of this section.
   (3)   Procedures and permits. All accessory apartments shall require an
accessory apartment permit. Applicants for such a permit shall be made on forms
provided by the city which shall include the following:
      (a)   Legal description of the property location and proof of ownership.
      (b)   Plans, drawn to scale, indicating existing and proposed floor plans
and access to both the principal unit and the accessory unit.
      (c)   Site plan depicting parking availability.
   (4)   Requirements. All accessory apartments shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (a)   The accessory apartment shall be clearly a subordinate part of the
principal dwelling. The accessory apartment shall not exceed 40% of the
building's total floor area or 960 square feet, whichever is less. Common area
shared by the principal dwelling and accessory apartment shall be considered
part of the principal dwelling and shall not be included in the calculation of
accessory apartment floor area.
      (b)   The principal dwelling shall have at least 960 square feet of
living space remaining after creation of the accessory apartment exclusive of
garage area. Accessory apartments shall have at least 500 square feet of living
space. Living space for the accessory apartment shall include a kitchen or
cooking facilities, a bathroom and a living room.
      (c)   The accessory apartment shall not have more than two bedrooms.
      (d)   A separate exterior entrance may be permitted. Any exterior
alterations or expansion shall be constructed of similar size, color, and type
of materials as the principal dwelling provided that no unenclosed ramps or
enclosed stairways are utilized to access either the primary or accessory unit.
Only one exterior stairway may be located on the side or rear of the dwelling.
      (e)   The principal dwelling and accessory apartment shall share an
internal doorway connection between the dwellings.
      (f)   Both the principal dwelling and accessory apartment shall share a
single utility hookup.
      (g)   All parking standards of §
1007.052 shall be met.
      (h)   The principal dwelling and accessory apartment shall meet the
applicable standards and requirements of the Lino Lakes Zoning Code, Building
Code, Anoka County Health Codes and Fire Codes.
      (i)   Either the principal dwelling or accessory apartment shall be
occupied by the owner of the property.
      (j)   The property shall only have one mailing address.
      (k)   A maximum of one accessory apartment permit shall be issued per
detached single family home.
      (l)   No separate driveway or curb cut shall be permitted for the
accessory apartment unit.
   (5)   Revocation. The City Council may revoke an accessory apartment permit
if the permittee fails to comply with the conditions attached to the issuance
of the permit or otherwise fails to comply with the requirements of this
section. Prior to revocation, the City Council shall conduct a hearing preceded
by ten days mail notice to the permittee.
§ 1007.058 DRAINAGE.
   (1)   No land shall be developed or altered, and no use shall be permitted
that results in increasing surface water runoff rates; causes unreasonable
flooding; degrades water quality; or creates erosion or deposit of minerals on
said land, adjacent properties, or water bodies in compliance with
Chapter 1011 and as required below.
   (2)   For land disturbance and all construction, erosion control measures
must be in place prior to the beginning of site work, e.g., grading, topsoil
stripping, or construction.
      (a)   The city may withhold inspections or suspend work on a site that
does not have an approved grading plan or in-place erosion control measures.
      (b)   The city may require financial security in the amount equal to the
value of the project to ensure placement of erosion control measures.
   (3)   The owner or contractor of any natural drainage improvement or
alteration may be required by the City Engineer to obtain recommendations from
the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, the Soil Conservation District,
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, affected watershed district(s), and/or City
Engineer.
   (4)   On any slope in excess of 8%, where, in the opinion of the City
Engineer, the natural drainage pattern may be disturbed or altered, the City
Engineer may require the applicant submit a grading plan and an erosion and
sediment control plan prior to permit issuance.
   (5)   Agricultural, residential, commercial, and industrial developments
shall be in compliance with applicable recommendations of the city's local
water management plan as may be amended.
   (6)   As part of a building permit application in which new structures or
building footprint expansion of existing structures are proposed, a site survey
showing proposed grading, drainage, erosion control, and building pad elevation
(s) must be submitted to the city along with a certification by a registered
land surveyor or engineer that they are consistent with the grading and
drainage plan approved with the final plat or site plan.
   (7)   Prior to issuance of an occupancy permit, the person or entity who
developed, graded and constructed improvements upon the property for which the
occupancy permit is requested, must submit certification by a registered land
surveyor or engineer that the final grading, drainage and building pad
elevations are consistent with the approved grading and drainage plan approved
with the subdivision or site plan. If no such city approved drainage and
grading plan for the entire subdivision exists, that such person or entity must
represent that the grading, drainage and building pad elevations are consistent
with the requirements of divisions (1) through (5) above.
§ 1007.059 EARTH MOVING AND LAND RECLAMATION.
   (1)   Exclusions. This article shall not apply to:
      (a)   The excavation, removal, storage, or placement of rock, sand, dirt,
gravel, clay, or other like material for any construction for which a building
permit has been issued, site plan approval or a development contract signed.
      (b)   Such excavation, removal, storage, or placement of rock, sand,
dirt, gravel, clay, or other like material as may be required by the state,
county, or city authorities within their acquired rights-of-way and easements
in connection with the construction or maintenance of roads and highways and
utilities. “Rights-of-way” as used herein shall not include isolated parcels
used exclusively for borrow pits.
   (2)   Permit required. Earth removal, land reclamation, material storage, or
filling, shall be permitted in all zoning districts, on any lot or parcel
except that it shall be unlawful for any person to remove, store, excavate, or
place as fill any rock, sand, dirt, gravel, clay, or other like material within
the city, in excess of 50 cubic yards per acre without first having applied for
and having obtained a permit from the city. When 5,000 or more cubic yards of
material is to be removed or deposited on any lot or parcel, an interim use
permit shall be required. The inclusion of an earth removal and land
reclamation permit process in this chapter does not automatically imply an
applicant's entitlement to issuance of a permit. The city may refuse to issue a
permit if in the opinion of the city, the application is not in the best
interests of the city.
   (3)   Application.
      (a)   The application for the permit shall be made in writing to the City
Engineer in such form as the City Engineer may designate and shall include such
information as may be required by the City Engineer. The plan shall contain
among other things a to scale map or plat of the proposed excavation, or fill
area showing the confines or limits thereof together with the existing
elevations and proposed finished elevations based on sea level readings. The
plan shall also include all wetlands, drainageways, tree inventory and
preservation plan, erosion control measures, final restoration improvements,
and other features as required by the city. The plan shall also be in
compliance with the City Standard Specifications for Construction.
      (b)   Each application shall be filed with the City Engineer.
      (c)   Each application for permit shall be accompanied by a fee, the
amount of which shall be determined by City Council resolution.
   (4)   Conditions. The City Engineer or City Council, as a prerequisite to
the granting of a permit, may require the applicant or the owner of the
premises to incorporate and attach any conditions or restrictions that it deems
necessary for the preservation of health, welfare, and safety of the citizens:
      (a)   Properly fence any pit or excavation, and barricade entrances to
prevent the general public from depositing garbage or refuse.
      (b)   Slope the banks, and otherwise guard and keep any pit or excavation
in such condition as not to be dangerous because of sliding or caving banks.
      (c)   Properly drain, fill, or level off any pit or excavation so as to
make the same safe and healthful as the city may determine.
      (d)   Limit the depth of such excavation to an elevation no lower than
the minimum floor elevation for building construction as established by the
City Engineer, so as not to diminish development potential of the parcel.
      (e)   Limit any fill material to clean fill, defined as rock, sand,
gravel, clay, or other like and similar non-decomposable material. Concrete,
asphalt, metal, wood, and other debris shall be prohibited.
      (f)   Require that all decomposable material, or other unsuitable
foundation material, be removed from an area before deposition of fill begins.
      (g)   Prepare a site plan showing existing and proposed grade elevations
and effect of storm water drainage on adjacent areas.
      (h)   Specify a time when the excavation or land reclamation project
shall be completed.
      (i)   Place a minimum of four inches of top soil over the completed
project and establish ground cover in a time period consistent with the city's
stormwater management and pollution prevention plan.
      (j)   Reimburse the city for the cost of periodic inspections by the city
for the purpose of determining that the terms under which the permit has been
issued are being complied with.
      (k)   Implement the tree preservation plan.
      (l)   Post a form of security as determined by the City Engineer to cover
potential city cost of repairing or cleaning any highways, streets, or other
public ways within the city made necessary by the special burden resulting from
transporting thereon by the applicant material to or from the site, the amount
of such cost to be determined by the Council; and conditioned further to comply
with all the requirements of this ordinance and the particular permit, and to
save the city free and harmless from all suits or claims for damages resulting
from the negligent excavation, removal, storage, or filling of rock, sand,
dirt, gravel, clay, or other like material within the city.
      (m)   Other conditions deemed appropriate to the application by the City
Engineer.
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1007.060 FARMING OPERATIONS.
   All farms in existence upon the effective date of this chapter and all farms
which are brought into the city by annexation shall be a permitted use. All
dwelling units and structures for processing of farm goods shall require a
zoning permit and conform to all requirements of the City Code. The City
Council may require any new farm operation to secure a conditional use permit
in the event of the following:
   (1)   The farm is adjacent to or within 400 feet of any dwelling unit and
may be detrimental to living conditions by emitting noise, odors, vibrations,
hazards to safety, and the like.
   (2)   The farming operations are so intensive as to constitute an industrial
type use consisting of the compounding, processing, and packaging of products
for wholesale or retail trade and further that such operations may tend to
become permanent industrial type operation that cannot be terminated as can a
normal farming operation.
§ 1007.061 ADULT USES.
   (1)   General. Adult uses as defined in this city code shall be subject to
the following conditions:
      (a)   Activities classified as obscene as defined by M.S. § 617.241 are
not permitted and are prohibited.
      (b)   Adult uses, either principal or accessory, shall be prohibited from
locating in any building which is also utilized for residential purposes.
      (c)   Adult uses, either principal or accessory, shall be prohibited from
locating in any building which is also used to dispense or consume alcoholic
beverages.
      (d)   An adult use which does not qualify as an accessory use shall be
classified as an adult use-principal.
   (2)   Adult uses - principal.
      (a)   Adult use-principal shall be located at least 300 radial feet, as
measured in a straight line from the closest point of the lot line of the
building upon which the adult use-principal is located to the lot line of:
         1.   Residentially zoned property.
         2.   A licensed day care center.
         3.   A public or private educational facility classified as a pre-
school, elementary, junior high or senior high.
         4.   A public library.
         5.   A public park.
         6.   Another adult use-principal.
         7.   An on-sale liquor establishment.
      (b)   Adult use-principal activities, as defined by this chapter, shall
be classified as one use. No two adult uses-principal shall be located in the
same building or upon the same property and each use shall be subject to
division (2)(a).
      (c)   Adult use-principal shall, in addition to other sign requirements
established by this code, adhere to the following signing regulations:
         1.   Sign messages shall be generic in nature and shall only identify
the type of business which is being conducted.
         2.   Shall not contain material classified as advertising.
         3.   Shall comply with the requirements of size and number for the
district in which they are located.
   (3)   Adult Uses - Accessory.
      (a)   Adult use-accessory shall:
         1.   Comprise no more than 10% of the floor area of the establishment
in which it is located.
         2.   Comprise no more than 20% of the gross receipts of the entire
business operation.
         3.   Not involve or include any activity except the sale or rental of
merchandise.
      (b)   Adult use-accessory shall be restricted from and prohibit access to
minors by the physical separation of such items from areas of general public
access:
         1.   Movie rentals. Display areas shall be restricted from general
view and shall be located within a separate room, the access of which is in
clear view and under the control of the persons responsible for the operation
or shall be in catalogs under the direct control and distribution of the
operator.
         2.   Magazines. Publications classified or qualifying as adult uses
shall not be physically accessible to minors and shall be covered with a
wrapper or other means to prevent display of any material other than the
publication title.
         3.   Other use. Adult uses-accessory not specifically cited shall
comply with the intent of this section subject to the approval of the Zoning
Administrator.
      (c)   Adult use-accessory shall be prohibited from both internal and
external advertising and signing of adult materials and products.
      (d)   Adult use-accessory activities shall be prohibited at any public
show, movie, caravan, circus, carnival, theatrical or other performance or
exhibition presented to the general public where minors are admitted.
§ 1007.062 ANTENNAS.
   (1)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to establish
predictable and balanced regulations for the siting and screening of wireless
communications equipment in order to accommodate the growth of wireless
communication systems within the City of Lino Lakes while protecting the public
against any adverse impacts on the city's aesthetic resources and the public
welfare. The provisions of the section are intended to maximize the use of
existing towers, structures, and buildings to accommodate new wireless
telecommunication antennas in order to minimize the number of towers needed to
serve the community. Small wireless facilities are regulated under Chapter 305
of this code.
   (2)   General standards. The following standards shall apply to all personal
wireless service telephone, public utility, microwave, radio and television
broadcast transmitting, radio and television receiving, satellite dish and
short-wave radio transmitting and receiving antenna.
      (a)   All obsolete and unused antennas and towers shall be removed within
12 months of cessation of operation at the site by the antenna or tower owner,
unless an exemption is granted by the Zoning Administrator. A copy of the
relevant portions of a signed lease which requires the applicant to remove the
tower and associate facilities when they are abandoned, unused or become
hazardous shall be submitted to the city.
      (b)   All antennas and towers shall be in compliance with all State
Building and Electrical Code requirements and shall require related permits as
applicable. Applications to construct new antennas and/or towers shall be
accompanied by any required federal, state, or local agency licenses.
      (c)   Structural design, mounting and installation of the antenna shall
be in compliance with manufacturer's specifications and as may be necessary, as
determined by the City Engineer, shall be verified and approved by a
professional engineer.
      (d)   When applicable, written authorization for antenna and/or tower
construction shall be provided by the property owner.
      (e)   No advertising message shall be affixed to the antenna and/or tower
structure.
      (f)   Antennas and/or towers shall not be artificially illuminated unless
required by law or by a governmental agency to protect the public's health and
safety.
      (g)   If a new tower of 75 feet or greater in height is to be
constructed, it shall be designed structurally, electrically, and in all
respects, to accommodate both the applicant's antennas and antennas for at
least one additional use, including but not limited to other personal wireless
service communication companies, local police, fire and ambulance companies.
Towers shall be designed to allow for future rearrangement of antennas upon the
tower and to accept antennas mounted at varying heights.
      (h)   Towers shall be painted a non-contrasting color consistent with the
surrounding area such as blue, gray, brown, or silver or have a galvanized
finish to reduce visual impact, unless otherwise required by a governmental
agency.
      (i)   All antennas and towers shall be reasonably posted and secured to
protect against trespass, including appropriate measures to prevent
unauthorized persons from climbing any tower.
      (j)   Towers shall comply with all applicable Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) regulations.
      (k)   Amateur radio towers shall be installed in compliance with the
instructions furnished by the manufacturer of that tower model. Because of the
experimental nature of the amateur radio service, antennas mounted on such a
tower may be modified or changed at any time so long as the published allowable
load on the tower is not exceeded and the structure of the tower remains in
compliance with the manufacturer's specifications.
      (l)   Except as may be applicable in case where a conditional use permit
is required, antennas and support structures for federally licensed amateur
radio stations and used in the amateur radio service shall be exempt from the
following: divisions (2)(c), (2)(h), (4) and (5).
   (3)   Certification, inspection and maintenance.
      (a)   All towers, antenna support structures, and related equipment or
structures shall be kept and maintained in good condition, order, and repair so
as not to menace or endanger the life or property of any person.
      (b)   All towers shall be certified by an engineer to be structurally
sound and in compliance with the requirements of the State Building Code and
federal and state law.
      (c)   The city shall have authority to enter onto the property upon which
a tower is located to inspect the tower for the purpose of determining whether
it complies with the State Building Code and all other construction standards
provided by the city's code, federal and state law. The city reserves the right
to conduct such inspections at any time, upon reasonable notice to the owner.
All expenses related to such inspecting by the city shall be borne by the
owner.
   (4)   Tower design. Where allowed, wireless communication towers shall be of
a monopole design unless the City Council determines that an alternative design
requested by the applicant would better blend into the surrounding environment.
   (5)   Co-location requirement. An application for a new tower shall not be
approved unless the applicant demonstrates that the antennas cannot be
accompanied on an existing or approved tower, building, or structure within a
two-mile search radius of the proposed tower due to one or more of the
following reasons:
      (a)   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of the
existing or approved tower, building, or structure as documented by a qualified
and licensed professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot
be reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent
equipment at a reasonable cost.
      (b)   The planned equipment would cause interference materially impacting
the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or building
as documented by a qualified engineer and interference cannot be prevented at a
reasonable cost.
      (c)   Other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible to locate the
antennas upon an existing or approved tower or structure.
      (d)   Existing or approved towers, buildings, or other structures do not
exist in the search area, or do not meet the needs of the user. Documentation
shall be provided at the time of application clearly demonstrating why existing
structures do not meet the needs to the users.
      (e)   The applicant shall demonstrate that a good faith effort to co-
locate on existing towers or structures was made, but an agreement could not be
reached.
   (6)   Accessory antennas. The following standards shall apply to all
accessory antennas including radio and television receiving antennas, satellite
dishes, TVROs three meters or less in diameter, short-wave radio dispatching
antennas, or those necessary for the operation of electronic equipment
including radio receivers, ham radio transmitters and television receivers.
      (a)   Accessory antennas shall not be constructed in any required yard
(except a rear yard) or within public easements. The setback shall be five feet
from all lot lines.
      (b)   Guy wires or guy wire anchors shall not be constructed within
public easements. The setback shall be one foot from all lot lines.
      (c)   Accessory antennas and necessary support structures, monopoles or
towers may extend a maximum of 15 feet above the normal height restriction for
the affected zoning district, except support structures and antennas used in
the amateur radio service may extend a maximum of two times the normal height
restriction for the affected zoning district.
      (d)   The installation of more than one accessory structure and support
structure per property shall require the approval of a conditional use permit.
   (7)   Personal wireless service antennas.
      (a)   Rural, residential, and business district standards.
         1.   Antennas located upon an existing tower or structure. Personal
wireless service antennas as a permitted secondary use may be located upon
existing towers or structures if the following condition are met:
            a.   Transmitting, receiving and switching equipment shall be
housed within an existing structure whenever possible. If a new equipment
building or cabinet is necessary for transmitting, receiving and switching
equipment, it shall be situated in the side or rear yard of the principal use,
meet all applicable accessory building setback requirements, and shall be
screened from view by landscaping where appropriate.
            b.   An administrative permit is issued by the Zoning Administrator
subject to the following conditions:
               i.   Antennas mounted on buildings or structures shall not
extend more than 15 feet above the structural height of the building or
structure to which they are attached.
               ii.   Wall or facade mounted antennas may not extend more than
five feet above the cornice line and shall be constructed of a material or
color which matches the exterior of the building.
            c.   In no case shall a personal wireless service antenna be
located upon or affixed to a detached single family residential dwelling.
         2.   New towers. The construction of new personal wireless service
antenna towers within Rural, Residential and Business Zoning Districts of the
city is prohibited.
      (b)   Industrial District standards.
         1.   Antennas located upon an existing structure or existing tower.
Personal wireless service antennas as a permitted secondary use may be located
upon an existing structure or co-located on an existing tower subject to the
following conditions:
            a.   An administrative permit is issued by the Zoning
Administrator.
            b.   Antennas mounted on buildings or structures shall not extend
more than 15 feet above the structural height of the building or structure to
which they are attached.
            c.   Wall or facade mounted antennas may not extend more than five
feet above the cornice line and must be constructed of a material or color
which matches the exterior of the building.
         2.   New towers. New towers as a permitted secondary use shall require
approval of an administrative permit and shall comply with the following
requirements:
            a.   The applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
city that location of the antennas as proposed is necessary to provide adequate
portable personal wireless service telephone coverage and capacity to areas
which cannot be adequately served by locating the antennas on an existing tower
or support structure.
            b.   If no existing structure which meets the height requirements
for the antennas is available for mounting purposes, the antennas may be
mounted on a monopole tower provided that:
               i.   Towers with a maximum capacity to support two antennas
shall not exceed 140 feet in height. Towers with a minimum capacity to support
three antennas shall not exceed 160 feet in height.
               ii.   The setback of the tower from the nearest lot line is at
least the height of the antenna. Exceptions to such setback may be granted in
such cases when a qualified structural engineer specifies in writing that any
failure of the pole will occur within a lesser distance under all foreseeable
circumstances. The setback shall not be reduced in cases where the subject site
abuts a residential zoning district. The setback requirements shall not be
reduced below the minimum accessory building setback requirements of the base
zoning district or the failure area of the tower, whichever is greater.
            c.   Transmitting, receiving and switching equipment shall be
housed within an existing structure whenever possible. If a new equipment
building or cabinet is necessary for transmitting, receiving and switching
equipment, it shall be situated in the side or rear yard of the principal use,
meet all applicable necessary building setback requirements, and shall be
screened from view by landscaping where appropriate.
            d.   At the discretion of the city, a security fence not greater
than eight feet in height with a maximum opacity of 50% shall be provided
around the support structure, as well as no climb security measures shall be
provided on the tower or support structure.
         3.   Temporary mobile towers. Personal wireless service antennas
located upon a temporary mobile tower as a permitted secondary use may be used
on an interim basis until a permanent site is constructed shall require the
approval of an administrative permit and shall comply with the following
requirements:
            a.   Temporary mobile towers are exempt from co-location and
permanent tower structure design standards provided for in the following
divisions of this section: (2)(h); (2)(i); (4) and (5).
            b.   The termination date of the permit shall not exceed 120 days.
Temporary mobile towers located on a site longer than 120 days shall require
the processing of an interim use permit subject to the standards contained in §
1007.017.
            c.   Guyed towers are prohibited.
            d.   Mobile units shall have a minimum tower design wind load of 80
miles per hour, or be set back from all structures a distance equal to the
height of the tower.
            e.   All towers shall be protected against unauthorized climbing.
            f.   The height of the tower shall not exceed 100 feet.
      (c)   Public and semi-public district standards.
         1.   Antennas located upon an existing tower or structure. Personal
wireless service antennas as a permitted accessory use may be located upon
public structures or existing towers subject to the following conditions:
            a.   Transmitting, receiving and switching equipment shall be
housed within an existing structure whenever possible. If a new equipment
building or cabinet is necessary for transmitting, receiving and switching
equipment, it shall be situated in the side or rear yard of the principal use,
meet all applicable accessory building setback requirements, and shall be
screened from view by landscaping where appropriate.
            b.   An administrative permit is issued by the Zoning Administrator
subject to the following conditions:
               i.   Antennas mounted on buildings or structures shall not
extend more than 15 feet above the structural height of the building or
structure to which they are attached.
               ii.   Wall or facade mounted antennas may not extend more than
five feet above the cornice line and shall be constructed of a material or
color which matches the exterior of the building.
         2.   New towers. New towers as a permitted secondary use shall require
approval of an administrative permit and shall comply with the following
requirements:
            a.   The applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
city that the location of the antennas as proposed is necessary to provide
adequate portable personal wireless service telephone coverage and capacity to
areas which cannot be adequately served by locating the antennas on an existing
tower or support structure.
            b.   If no existing structure which meets the height requirements
for the antennas is available for mounting purposes, the antennas may be
mounted on a monopole tower provided that:
               i.   Towers with a maximum capacity to support two antennas
shall not exceed 140 feet in height. Towers with a minimum capacity to support
three antennas shall not exceed 160 feet in height.
               ii.   The setback of the tower from the nearest lot line is at
least the height of the antenna. Exceptions to such setback may be granted in
such cases when a qualified structural engineer specifies in writing that any
failure of the pole will occur within a lesser distance under all foreseeable
circumstances. The setback shall not be reduced in cases where the subject site
abuts a residential zoning district. The setback requirements shall not be
reduced below the minimum accessory building setback requirements of the base
zoning district or the failure area of the tower, whichever is greater.
            c.   Transmitting, receiving and switching equipment shall be
housed within an existing structure whenever possible. If a new equipment
building or cabinet is necessary for transmitting, receiving and switching
equipment, it shall be situated in the side or rear yard of the principal use,
meet all applicable necessary building setback requirements, and shall be
screened from view by landscaping where appropriate.
            d.   At the discretion of the city, a security fence not greater
than eight feet in height with a maximum opacity of 50% shall be provided
around the support structure and no-climb security measures shall be provided
on the tower or support structure.
   (8)   Commercial, public radio and television transmitting antennas, and
public utility microwave antennas. Commercial and public radio and television
transmitting and public utility microwave antennas shall comply with the
following requirements:
      (a)   Such antenna shall be considered an allowed conditional use within
all rural and industrial districts of the city and shall be subject to the
regulations and requirements of §
1007.016.
      (b)   The antennas, transmitting towers, or array of towers shall be
located on a continuous parcel having a dimension equal to the height of the
antenna, transmitting tower, or array of towers measured between the base of
the antenna or tower located nearest a lot line and said lot line, unless a
qualified structural engineer specifies in writing that the collapse of any
antenna or tower will occur within a lesser distance under all foreseeable
circumstances.
      (c)   Unless the antenna is mounted on an existing structure, at the
discretion of the city, a fence not greater than eight feet in height with a
maximum opacity of 50% shall be provided around the support structure and other
equipment, as well as no climb security measures shall be provided on the tower
or structure.
§ 1007.063 ACCESSORY OUTDOOR DINING AREAS.
   (1)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to provide
standards for the establishment and use of accessory outdoor dining areas that
are intended for consumption of food or beverages purchased at the principal
use on the property. This section is not intended to apply to outdoor seating
areas such as park benches or picnic tables in parks or other public gathering
and recreation areas. When an administrative permit for an outdoor dining area
is required, it may be incorporated into another approval such as but not
limited to a site plan, planned unit development, or building permit.
   (2)   Requirements.
      (a)   The applicant shall submit a site plan and other pertinent
information demonstrating the location and type of all tables, chairs, benches,
refuse receptacles, wait stations, fencing, planters, and other elements of the
outdoor area. This submittal information must sufficiently demonstrate that all
requirements are met. The information can be included as part of a submittal
for another permit or approval.
      (b)   If alcoholic beverages are served or consumed in the outdoor dining
area, the proper license required by Chapter 700 of this code must be current.
      (c)   All lighting be hooded and directed away from adjacent residential
uses in compliance with §
1007.046.
      (d)   The site plan shall demonstrate that pedestrian circulation is not
disrupted as a result of the outdoor dining area by providing the following:
         1.   The outdoor dining area shall be at least partially segregated
from through pedestrian circulation by means of temporary or permanent fencing,
bollards, ropes, plantings, or other methods. If the outdoor dining area
consists of four (4) or fewer tables and there is no outdoor service, this
requirement may be waived if other requirements are met to sufficiently avoid
disruption of circulation.
         2.   The minimum clear passage zone for pedestrians at the perimeter
of the outdoor dining area shall be at least five feet without interference
from tables, chairs, planters, parked motor vehicles, bollards, trees, tree
gates, curbs, stairways, trash receptacles, street lights, parking meters, or
the like.
         3.   Umbrellas or other structures extending into the pedestrian clear
passage zone or pedestrian aisle shall have a minimum clearance of seven feet
above the sidewalk.
      (e)   The outdoor dining area shall be surfaced with concrete, bituminous
or decorative pavers or may consist of a deck with wood or other flooring
material that provides a clean, attractive, and functional surface.
      (f)   A minimum width of 36 inches shall be provided within aisles of the
outdoor dining area.
      (g)   Storage of furniture shall not be permitted outdoors between
November 1 and March 31. Outdoor furniture that is immovable or permanently
fixed or attached to the sidewalk shall not be subject to the storage
prohibition of this section. However, any immovable or permanently fixed or
attached furniture must be reviewed as part of the administrative permit
application.
      (h)   Additional off-street parking spaces.
         1.   For outdoor dining areas that are 500 square feet or less in
size, no additional off-street parking spaces shall be required.
         2.   For outdoor dining areas that are greater than 500 square feet in
size, one additional off-street parking space for every 100 square feet of
outdoor dining area in excess of the first 500 square feet shall be required.
      (i)   The outdoor dining area shall be designed to avoid potential
conflict with motor vehicle parking or circulation.
      (j)   Refuse containers shall be provided for self-service outdoor dining
areas. Such containers shall be placed in a manner which does not disrupt
pedestrian circulation, and must be designed to prevent spillage and blowing
litter.
      (k)   The outdoor dining area shall be kept clean and otherwise
maintained in an orderly, sanitary, attractive condition.
§ 1007.064 BATCH PLANTS.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide standards for the
establishment and use of batch plants intended to provide construction
materials for a defined project within a limited timeframe.
   (2)   Application. In order to operate within the city a batch plant shall
be located within the Light Industrial, General Industrial, Rural, Rural
Executive, or Future Urban Development zoning districts, and must obtain an
interim use permit per §
1007.017.
   (3)   Requirements. Batch plants are allowed subject to the following
conditions:
      (a)   The batch plant shall be located on the site so as to minimize the
disturbance of surrounding dwelling units or commercial businesses.
      (b)   The batch plant setback shall be 50 feet from any wetland.
      (c)   The project intended to be served by the batch plant and a deadline
for removal shall be clearly defined.
      (d)   The hours of operation shall be clearly defined.
      (e)   Access to and from the site shall be reviewed and approved by the
City Engineer prior to any site disturbance.
      (f)   A grading, erosion and sediment control plan shall be submitted and
approved by the city prior to any site disturbance.
      (g)   A storm water pollution prevention plan shall be submitted and
approved by the city prior to any site disturbance.
      (h)   A restoration plan shall be submitted and approved by the city
prior to any site disturbance.
      (i)   All applicable Minnesota Pollution Control Agency requirements are
satisfactorily met.
      (j)   All applicable watershed district requirements are satisfactorily
met.
      (k)   So as to maintain compatibility with the surrounding area and to
protect the health, safety and general welfare of the public, the City Council
may impose additional limitations, conditions or requirements as it deems
necessary.
      (l)   The operator and property owner shall enter into a Performance
Agreement with the City, and financial sureties shall be posted prior to any
site disturbance.
§ 1007.065 OPT OUT OF MINN. STAT. 462.3593.
   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, subd. 9, the City of Lino
Lakes opts-out of the requirements of M.S. § 462.3593, which defines and
regulates Temporary Family Health Care Dwellings.
§ 1007.066 COMMERCIAL STABLES.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide performance
standards for the operation of commercial stables.
   (2)   Definitions. The following definitions apply to this section:
   COMMERCIAL STABLE. The business of boarding horses for fee for persons not
residing on the premises and may include instruction, exhibition and sale of
horses. This shall include the raising and breeding of horses.
   (3)   General standards. The following standards shall apply to all
commercial stables:
      (a)   Commercial stables offering services to the public, and having the
facilities to maintain or care for ten or more horses, shall have their
principal entrance located on an arterial or collector street.
      (b)   Commercial stables that offer boarding, training, or other services
to the public shall provide sanitary facilities for the public's use. The
sanitary facilities must be constructed in compliance with the state building
code, and connected to an individual sewage treatment system or the public
sanitary sewer system.
      (c)   Adjacent parcels of land under common ownership may be used to
determine the maximum number of animal units allowed, if the parcels are
operated as a single enterprise.
         1.   In instances where a parcel of land consists of a fraction of an
acre, the property size shall be rounded to the nearest whole number to
determine the number of animal units allowed.
         2.   Adjacent parcels of land shall not be separated by public right-
of-way.
      (d)   Up to double the animal unit density may be allowed subject to an
approved facility management and waste handling plan.
      (e)   Buildings housing domestic livestock, including barns, stables,
sheds, and similar facilities shall be located no nearer than 100 feet from any
inhabited, neighboring dwelling.
§ 1007.067 AGRITOURISM.
   (1)   The purpose of this section is to provide standards for agritourism,
which consists of uses of a commercial/tourism nature that are complementary
and accessory to the primary agricultural land use. It is also intended to
promote and maintain local farming and encourage new agriculturally based
businesses that contribute to the general economic conditions of the city and
surrounding region.
   (2)   The purpose of this designation is to provide a clear understanding of
the expectations for agricultural commercial/tourism businesses for operators,
local residents, other businesses, and local officials.
      (a)   A property's size must be adequate to accommodate any agritourism
use so as not to create a nuisance or hazard. Issues affected by farm size
include, but are not limited to, setbacks for noise abatement, adequate off
street space for a farm stand, and adequate parking for all farm activities
including, but not limited to, daily operation.
      (b)   Agritourism uses must meet all city zoning ordinances as well as
all health, building, street, safety and other applicable local, state and
federal regulations and codes.
      (c)   Agricultural operations whose gross revenues are solely or
primarily derived from alcoholic products are not included under these
provisions. Applicable state or local laws will apply.
      (d)   Documentation that an agritourism use as defined in the city
ordinance is operating within these limits must be made available to the city
upon request.
   (3)   The following agricultural commercial/tourism businesses may be
permitted after a conditional use review, pursuant to §
1007.016 provided that the agricultural heritage and rural character of the
site are respected and maintained:
      (a)   Cider mills or wineries selling product, in a tasting room, if at
least 50% of the cider or wine offered for sale contains crops or produce grown
on-site or in Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, North Dakota or South Dakota.
      (b)   Seasonal outdoor mazes of agricultural origin such as straw bales
or corn.
      (c)   The processing, storage, and retail or wholesale marketing of
agricultural products into value-added agricultural products containing
agricultural products grown on site or in Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, North
Dakota or South Dakota.
      (d)   Kitchen facilities, for the processing, cooking, and/or baking of
goods featuring agricultural products grown on site or in Minnesota.
      (e)   The retail sale of agricultural products and agriculturally related
products. The retail sale of non-agriculturally related products is limited to
25% of items offered for sale.
      (f)   Uses (a) through (e) listed above may include any or all of the
following ancillary agriculturally related uses and some non-agriculturally
related uses so long as the general agricultural character of the farm is
maintained, and the non-agriculturally related uses comprise less than 50% of
the gross receipts from the farm.
         1.   Value-added agricultural products or activities such as
educational tours of the site or processing facilities, educational classes,
lectures, seminars, etc.
         2.   Playgrounds or equipment such as slides, swings, or similar
structures (not including motorized vehicles or rides).
         3.   Petting farms, animal display, and pony rides.
         4.   Wagon, sleigh, and hayrides.
         5.   Nature trails.
         6.   Open air or covered picnic area with restrooms.
         7.   Historical agricultural exhibits.
         8.   Food trucks, concession stands, or temporary food services to
host visitors once attracted to the agricultural business for the purposes of
entertaining and/or educating.
   (4)   The site shall comply with the following requirements:
      (a)   Minimum lot area of ten acres.
      (b)   All uses permitted by this section shall have at least one primary
access onto a collector street as identified on the functional classification
map with the condition that the increase in traffic shall not create a
nuisance, to nearby residents by way of traffic or noise or increase the public
cost in maintaining the street.
      (c)   All structure, parking area, and agritourism related activity
setbacks shall be 50 feet from any side or rear lot line. Drive aisle setbacks
shall be 20 feet to any side or rear lot line.
§ 1007.068 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS).
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations for
the installation of WECS in locations that are not detrimental to the public
health safety and welfare of neighboring property owners or occupants.
   (2)   Applicability. WECS that have a combined nameplate capacity of 5,000
kilowatts or more are regulated by the state, and are preempted from the
regulations of this section. This section applies only to WECS that have a
combined nameplate capacity of less than 5,000 kilowatts.
   (3)   General requirements. The following requirements shall apply to all
WECS:
      (a)   WECS shall be allowed as an accessory structure in all zoning
districts.
      (b)   WECS shall be mounted to a monopole or building that has the
structural integrity to carry the weight and wind loads of the WECS and can
accommodate its vibration impacts, as documented in writing by a licensed
structural engineer.
      (c)   WECS and any related equipment shall comply with the noise
regulations established in §
1007.047(4) of this code.
      (d)   WECS shall be equipped with an overspeed control device.
      (e)   WECS, including the blades or rotors, shall be grounded and
shielded in compliance with the National Electrical Code.
      (f)   The compatibility of the blades or rotors with the generator shall
be certified by a licensed engineer.
      (g)   WECS shall be filtered, shielded or otherwise designed and
constructed so as not to cause electrical, radio frequency, television, or
other communication signal interference.
      (h)   WECS and their related support and equipment shall be a non-
contrasting color such as pale grey or white or shall have a galvanized finish
to reduce visual impact, unless otherwise required by the Federal Aviation
Administration.
      (i)   Except those devices required by the Federal Aviation
Administration, no lights, reflectors, flashers or any other type of
illumination shall be attached to a WECS or related support or equipment.
      (j)   Except for required safety signage, no other signage, writing,
pictures, flags, streamers, or decorative items shall be attached to a WECS or
related support or equipment,
      (k)   WECS shall be self-supporting without the use of guy wires or
similar features.
      (l)   Obsolete WECS and any related support or equipment shall be removed
within 12 months of cessation of operating, unless an exemption is granted by
the Zoning Administrator.
   (4)   Freestanding WECS. In addition to the general requirements specified
in this section, freestanding WECS shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (a)   Freestanding WECS shall be constructed using a monopole design of
tubular steel.
      (b)   Not more than one freestanding WECS shall be permitted per lot.
      (c)   Freestanding WECS shall not exceed 50 feet in height, as measured
from the grade level at the base of the tower to the highest possible extension
of the blades, rotors, or similar feature of the WECS.
      (d)   Freestanding WECS shall not be located within a front yard of a
residential zoning district.
      (e)   Freestanding WECS setbacks from all lot lines, from any principal
building, from any recreational facility (e.g., playfield, rink), and from
lakes, wetlands, and ponds shall be a distance at least equal to the height of
the WECS.
      (f)   Lot line setbacks may be reduced for projects with joint ownership
of a freestanding WECS between two or more abutting landowners. Prior to
issuance of a building permit, the applicant shall submit recorded copies of
covenants or easements prohibiting the construction of habitable buildings
within a distance equal to the height of the WECS on all affected properties.
      (g)   Freestanding WECS shall not be located within a required wetland
buffer, within a bluff or shore impact zone, or on slopes within the shoreland
management overlay district that are over 12% as measured over horizontal
distances of 50 feet or more.
      (h)   No portion of a freestanding WECS including the full arc area
created by any blade, rotor or other portion of the WECS shall extend over a
public easement, over a parking lot, over an accessory building, or over or
under an overhead utility line.
      (i)   The lowest extent of any blade or rotor on a freestanding WECS
shall be at least 30 feet above the ground.
      (j)   Freestanding WECS shall not include tower climbing apparatus within
12 feet of the ground.
      (k)   Freestanding WECS shall display a sign posted at the base of the
tower, not to exceed two square feet in area, containing the following
information.
         1.   A warning of danger to unauthorized persons.
         2.   The WECS manufacturer's name.
         3.   Emergency shutdown procedures.
   (5)   Rooftop WECS. In addition to the general requirements specified in
this section, rooftop WECS shall comply with the following requirements:
      (a)   Not more than one rooftop WECS shall be permitted per single family
detached dwelling. The number of rooftop WECS shall not be limited for other
principal buildings.
      (b)   Rooftop WECS shall not exceed 15 feet in height, as measured from
the highest element of the roof segment to which the WECS is attached (e.g.,
peak for pitched roofs, parapet for flat roofs) to the highest possible
extension of the blades, rotors or similar feature of the WECS.
      (c)   Rooftop WECS setbacks shall be ten feet from exterior walls of the
building.
   (6)   Submittal requirements. An applicant for a WECS shall provide the
following:
      (a)   Information that demonstrates compliance with the requirements
specified in this section, as applicable.
      (b)   Application materials required for a building permit of this
chapter.
      (c)   Technical specifications for the WECS including, but not limited
to, height, blade or rotor length, operating parameters, lightning protection,
anticipated noise levels at the lot lines, and other information deemed
necessary to review the application.
      (d)   For freestanding WECS, a certified survey showing lot lines,
existing structures, easements, above-ground utilities, elevations, wetlands,
ponds, lakes, streams, and the proposed location for the WECS, including the
dimensions between lot lines and the nearest projection of WECS blades or
rotors.
      (e)   For freestanding WECS, an inventory of significant trees proposed
to be removed within the construction area for the WECS shall be provided for
all uses except single family detached dwellings.
§ 1007.069 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations for
the installation of solar energy systems in locations that are not detrimental
to the public health safety and welfare of neighboring property owners or
occupants.
   (2)   Zoning district. Solar energy systems in compliance with the standards
in this section are allowed as a permitted accessory use in all zoning
districts. This does not include solar farms.
   (3)   Standards.
      (a)   Exemption. Passive or building integrated solar energy systems are
exempt from the requirements of this chapter and shall be regulated as any
other building element.
      (b)   Height.
         1.   Rural and residential roof mounted solar energy systems are
allowed subject to the following conditions:
            a.   The system is permitted to exceed the maximum height
requirements in the applicable zoning district up to 18 inches above the
rooftop to which it is attached.
            b.   The system shall be installed parallel to the rooftop to which
it is attached.
         2.   Rural and residential ground mounted solar energy systems shall
not exceed ten feet in height.
         3.   Business, Industrial, and Special District roof mounted solar
energy systems are allowed subject to the following conditions:
            a.   The system is permitted to project a maximum of four feet from
the roof to which is it attached.
            b.   The pitch shall not exceed 40% at maximum tilt.
            c.   The system shall not exceed 15 feet in height at maximum tilt.
         4.   Ground mounted solar energy systems must be engineered to include
three feet of clearance from grade to bottom of the solar energy system.
      (c)   Location. Ground mounted solar energy systems shall not be located
in any front yard in any zoning district except within rural zoning districts,
they shall be located at least 100 feet from the front lot line.
      (d)   Setbacks. Ground mounted solar energy systems shall comply with all
accessory structure setbacks in the applicable zoning district. Roof mounted
systems shall comply with all building setbacks in the applicable zoning
district and shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on
which the system is mounted.
      (e)   Roof mounting. Roof mounted solar collectors may be flush mounted
or bracket mounted. Bracket mounted collectors shall be permitted only when a
determination is made by the City Building Official that the underlying roof
structure will support apparatus, wind, and snow loads and all applicable
building standards are satisfied.
      (f)   Easements. Solar energy systems shall not be located in any public
easement.
      (g)   Screening. Ground mounted systems shall be screened from view and
the public right-of-way to the extent practicable without impacting their
function. Solar energy systems are exempt from screening requirements for
rooftop mechanical equipment.
      (h)   Maximum area.
         1.   Rural and residential ground mounted solar energy systems shall
be limited to 5% of the lot area.
         2.   Business, industrial, and special district ground mounted solar
energy systems shall not exceed more than 25% of the yard in which the solar
energy system is located.
         3.   Ground mounted solar energy systems are exempt from maximum
impervious surface limitations in each zoning district.
         4.   All solar energy systems shall minimize glare toward vehicular
traffic and adjacent properties.
      (i)   Feeder lines. The electrical collection system shall be located
underground within the interior of each parcel. The collection system may be
located overhead near substations or points of interconnection to the electric
grid.
      (j)   Safety.
         1.   Standards. Solar energy systems shall meet the minimum standards
of all applicable federal, state, local, or other standards as determined by
the City Building Official.
         2.   Certification. Solar energy systems shall be certified by
Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory,
the Solar Rating and Certification Corporation or other body as determined by
the City Building Official. The City reserves the right to deny a building
permit for proposed solar energy systems deemed to have inadequate
certification.
         3.   Utility connection. All grid connected systems shall have an
agreement with the local utility prior to the issuance of a building permit. A
visible external disconnect shall be provided if required by the utility.
      (k)   Abandonment. If a solar energy system remains nonfunctional or
inoperative for a continuous period of one year, the system shall be deemed to
be abandoned and shall constitute a public nuisance. The owner shall remove the
abandoned system at their expense after a demolition permit has been obtained.
Removal includes the entire structure including transmission equipment.
      (l)   Permit. A building permit shall be obtained for any solar energy
system prior to installation. A building permit submittal shall include the
following: to scale site plan, manufacturers and installation specifications, a
complete structural review worksheet for residential roof mounted solar arrays
and any additional information requested by city staff and/or the Building
Official.
§ 1007.070 MODEL HOMES WITH TEMPORARY REAL ESTATE OFFICES.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the
construction of model homes with temporary real estate offices in new
subdivisions without adversely affecting the character of surrounding
residential neighborhoods or creating a general nuisance. As model homes
represent a temporary commercial use, special consideration must be given to
the unique characteristics associated with them and special standards must be
applied to ensure reasonable compatibility with their surrounding environment.
   (2)   Procedure. The construction of a model home(s) with temporary real
estate office(s) shall require a building permit issued by the Building
Official.
   (3)   Special requirements.
      (a)   Model homes with temporary real estate offices may be allowed as
accessory uses in the applicable zoning district in which they are located. The
model home with a temporary real estate office shall comply with the Minnesota
State Building Code.
      (b)   Temporary parking areas shall be provided on the site and shall
include at least two off-street parking spaces per model home unit with
temporary real estate office. Such temporary parking areas shall provide
handicap accessible parking and accessible routes as required by the Minnesota
State Building Code. The overall design, drainage, and surfacing of the
temporary parking area shall be subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
      (c)   Access from a temporary parking area onto a local street shall be
minimized. Where this requirement is physically impractical, access shall be
directed away from residential neighborhoods to the greatest extent possible.
      (d)   No model home with temporary real estate office shall incorporate
outside lighting which creates a nuisance due to glare or intensity.
      (e)   All signage shall be in compliance with City Code
Chapter 1010.
      (f)   The model home with temporary real estate office shall terminate
three years from its date of issuance or until 85% of the development is
completed, whichever occurs first.
      (g)   No residential occupancy permit shall be issued for a model home
until such time as the structure has been fully converted to a residence. Such
conversion shall include but not be limited to parking lot restoration and the
removal of signage and lighting.
      (h)   The restoration of all temporary parking areas with appropriate
landscaping shall be completed by the end of the next growing season.
§ 1007.071 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for temporary
structures including but not limited to construction trailers and temporary
classroom structures for use by a public or private school.
   (2)   Procedure. The temporary structure shall require an administrative
permit, as may be issued by the Zoning Administrator, except as otherwise
provided by this chapter.
   (3)   Special requirements.
      (a)   Temporary structures shall be allowed as provided for in the
applicable zoning district in which they are located.
      (b)   No administrative permit shall be issued for a temporary structure
unless a site plan has also been approved if applicable, or unless a building
permit has been issued for a new structure, addition or remodeling of an
existing structure on the property.
      (c)   The administrative permit shall terminate 12 months from its date
of issuance, or within 30 days after a certificate of occupancy has been issued
by the Building Official for the permanent structure. The permit may be
extended for an additional 180 days at the discretion of the Zoning
Administrator.
      (d)   Temporary structures may be located in a required yard area,
provided that no such structure may be located within 15 feet of a public
right-of-way or obstruct visibility at any intersection or driveway.
      (e)   All applicable requirements of the State Building Code shall be
met.
      (f)   Whenever an administrative permit for construction of a temporary
structure has been issued, a similar application for an administrative permit
for construction of a temporary structure shall not be considered again by the
Zoning Administrator for at least one year from the date of approval.
§ 1007.072 MOTOR FUEL STATIONS.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish standards and
procedures under which motor fuel stations can be conducted within the city
without jeopardizing the health, safety and general welfare of the surrounding
neighborhood. This section establishes the city's minimum requirements for the
establishment and operation of a motor fuel station.
   (2)   Motor fuel stations. Motor fuel stations shall be constructed in
compliance with state and city standards. Additionally, adequate space shall be
provided to access fuel pumps and allow maneuverability around the pumps.
Underground fuel storage tanks are to be positioned to allow adequate access by
motor fuel transports and unloading operations which do not conflict with
circulation, access and other activities on the site. Fuel pumps shall be
installed on pump islands.
   (3)   Architectural standards. The architectural appearance, scale, and
functional plan of the building(s) and canopy shall be complementary and
compatible with each other and the existing buildings in the neighborhood
setting.
   (4)   Canopy. A protective canopy structure may be located over the pump
island(s), as an accessory structure. The canopy shall meet the following
performance standards:
      (a)   The edge of the canopy shall be at least 30 feet from any lot line,
provided that adequate visibility both on-site and off-site is maintained.
      (b)   The canopy shall not exceed 18 feet in height and must provide 14
feet of clearance to accommodate a semi-trailer truck passing underneath.
      (c)   The canopy fascia shall not exceed three feet in vertical height.
      (d)   The canopy lighting shall consist of canister spotlights recessed
into the canopy. No portion of the light source of fixture may extend below the
ceiling of the canopy. Total canopy illumination may not exceed 115 foot
candles below the canopy at ground level.
      (e)   The architectural design, colors, and character of the canopy shall
be consistent with the principal building on the site.
      (f)   The canopies support columns shall be constructed of masonry
materials consistent with the principal building.
      (g)   Signage may be allowed on a detached canopy provided that the
individual canopy sign does not exceed more than 20% of the canopy facade
facing a public right-of-way.
      (h)   Canopy posts/sign posts shall not obstruct traffic or the safe
operation of the gas pumps.
   (5)   Pump islands. Pump islands shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (a)   Pump islands shall be elevated six inches above the traveled
surface of the site.
      (b)   Pump island setbacks shall be 30 feet from any lot line.
Additionally, the setback
between the pump islands curb face must be at least 24 feet.
   (6)   Drainage. Drainage from all fueling areas shall be directed to an oil/
grit separator. Minimum design standards for the oil/grit separator shall
include the following:
      (a)   A minimum of 400 cubic feet of permanent pool storage capacity per
acre of drainage area.
      (b)   A minimum pool depth of four feet.
      (c)   A minimum oil containment capacity of 800 gallons.
      (d)   Minimum maintenance/inspection of two times per year and/or after
measurable spill events. A measurable spill shall be defined by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency (MPCA). Any measurable spill event must be reported to
the MPCA.
   (7)   Buffer. Where lots abut residentially zoned property, a buffer yard of
at least 20 feet wide shall be landscaped and screened in compliance with City
Code §
1007.049.
   (8)   Circulation and loading. The site design must accommodate adequate
turning radius and vertical clearance for a semi-trailer truck. A site plan
must be provided to illustrate adequate turning radius, using appropriate
engineering templates.
   (9)   Noise. Public address systems and gas pump displays shall not be
audible at any lot line. Play of music or advertisement from the public address
system is prohibited. Noise control shall be required as regulated in §
1007.047(4).
   (10)   Outdoor storage, sales and service. No outdoor storage or sales shall
be allowed, except as follows:
      (a)   Propane sales of 20-pound capacity tanks may be located outside
provided the propane tanks are secured in a locker and meets all State Uniform
Building and Fire Codes.
      (b)   Large, bulk sale propane tanks must meet all applicable building
and fire code requirements.
      (c)   A compressed air service area may be located on site as long as it
does not interrupt on-site traffic circulation.
      (d)   Accessory outdoor services, sales, or rental accessory to the
principal use and limited in area to 25% of the gross floor area of the
principal building.
   (11)   Litter control. The operation shall be responsible for litter control
on the subject property, which is to occur on a daily basis. Trash receptacles
shall be provided at a convenient location on site to facilitate litter
control.
   (12)   Motor vehicle parking. Except for employee passenger motor vehicles
and motorcycles, no motor vehicle shall be parked on the property for more than
two hours.
   (13)   Additional stipulations. All conditions pertaining to a specific site
are subject to change when the Council, upon investigation in relation to a
formal request finds that the general welfare and public betterment can be
served as well or better by modifying or expanding the conditions set forth
herein.
§ 1007.073 AIR PARK HANGAR AND ACCESS PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide standards for the
size of airplane hangars and access to airplane hangars constructed on single
family lots that have taxiway access to an approved private use airport.
   (2)   Definitions. The following definitions apply to this section:
   AIR PARK.  A residential subdivision with permitted access to a private use
airport.
   AIRPLANE HANGAR.  An accessory building constructed on a single family lot
where aircraft are stored. Such use is considered a residential accessory use
incidental to the dwelling.
   (3)   General standards. The following standards shall apply to all air park
single family lots:
      (a)   Airplane hangar. Air park lots may have one airplane hangar not
exceeding 3,200 square feet, provided that:
         1.   The airplane hangar location has direct taxiway access to the
runway.
         2.   The airplane hangar be earth tone in color.
      (b)   Driveways shall not be constructed closer than three feet to the
lot line.
         1.   Exception. Encroachment into the three-foot setback may be
allowed for purposes of constructing a shared driveway with the abutting
property owner provided that any shared driveway shall include a maintenance
and access agreement executed by each property owner and recorded against each
property with Anoka County.
      (c)   The plans for driveways proposed to be placed within a drainage and
utility easement must meet drainage requirements and be approved by the City
Engineer prior to construction. Driveways placed within a drainage and utility
easement are placed, by the owner, at the owner's risk of removal by the city
or other agencies that may have legal use of the easement. Replacement of
driveways removed for drainage or utility work shall be at the owner's expense.
      (d)   All driveways and approaches shall be hard surfaced in accordance
with §
1007.052(3)(h)15.
      (e)   An air park single-family lot may have one secondary public street
driveway access subject to approval of the City Engineer and the following
conditions:
         1.   The property owner demonstrates that the principal driveway
access serving the single family dwelling cannot be extended or expanded to
serve an airplane hangar without encroaching into required setbacks or abutting
property or without violating §
1007.052(5)(g).
         2.   Secondary driveway width shall not exceed 12 feet.
         3.   No secondary driveway shall be within three feet of the lot line
unless a shared driveway access and maintenance agreement is executed by each
property owner and recorded against each property with Anoka County.
      (f)   Impervious surface coverage area. The impervious surface of the
property shall not exceed 65%.
      (g)   All other provisions of
Chapter 1007 and the City Code shall be applicable to the extent not in
conflict with this section
§ 1007.074 RURAL CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish special
requirements for a rural cluster development (without city water or sanitary
sewer) project to allow limited rural residential development while promoting:
      (a)   Preservation of productive land for agricultural use.
      (b)   Preservation of wildlife habitat and unique natural resources.
      (c)   Reduction of negative impacts on the environment.
      (d)   Creation of common open space that provides a unified landscape for
the use and enjoyment of the neighborhood community and/or the general public.
      (e)   A variety of rural residential lot sizes, configurations, and
neighborhoods.
      (f)   Orderly and economically viable transition to eventual development
with urban services.
   (2)   Application. A rural cluster development shall only be applied in
areas zoned R, Rural or R-X, Rural-Executive that are guided Low Density
Residential on the Comprehensive Plan Full Build Out Land Use Map.
   (3)   Open space. A minimum of 50% of the gross acreage of the subject
property shall be preserved as common open space, recreational space or
agricultural use. Of that open space, a minimum of 25% shall be upland area.
         (a)   All designated open space shall be platted as outlot parcels.
Public trail corridors shall be dedicated as park land.
         (b)   Habitable structures. Habitable structures shall not be
permitted in any of the designated open spaces. Open and recreational
structures may be permitted within open spaces.
         (c)   Public open space accessibility. Open spaces dedicated to the
public shall be accessible to pedestrians at no less than 1,200-foot intervals
along public roadways. Where necessary, pedestrian access corridor outlots
between private lots shall be at least 20 feet in width.
   (4)   Ownership and management. Each designated open space shall be owned
and managed according to the following means, subject to city approval:
      (a)   Common ownership. Open space may be owned in common by the property
owners created through subdivision of the original tract. Management shall be
the responsibility of that subdivision's homeowner association. In the case
where at least one open space is held in common ownership, a homeowner
association shall be established for that subdivision. Membership in the
association by all property owners in the subdivision shall be mandatory. The
homeowners association documents or the declaration of covenants, conditions
and restrictions shall be submitted as part of the preliminary plat application
and shall contain the following information:
         1.   The legal description of the common lands or facilities;
         2.   The restrictions placed upon the use and enjoyment of the lands
or facilities, including the persons or entities entitled to enforce the
restrictions;
         3.   A mechanism for resolving disputes among the owners or
association members;
         4.   A mechanism to assess and enforce the common expenses for the
land or facilities, including upkeep and maintenance expenses, real estate
taxes and insurance premiums;
         5.   The conditions and timing of the transfer of ownership and
control of land or facilities to the association or to common ownership.
      (b)   Natural habitat. Management shall be the responsibility of the
homeowners association.
         1.   Open space may be protected by establishing conservation
easements as provided in M.S. §§ 84.64 through 84.65, as they may be amended
from time to time. Unless the document establishing the restrictions
specifically provides to the contrary, the city shall have no responsibility
for the maintenance or management of the area subject to the restrictions. The
form and content of the conservation easement or other instrument establishing
the restrictions must be approved by the city prior to the execution and
delivery thereof.
         2.   Stormwater drainage systems located within open spaces or the
residential lots shall be covered by utility and drainage easements dedicated
on the final plat to the city.
      (c)   Neighborhood Recreational and Trail Corridor. Recreational open
space or trail corridors intended as public parks or public trails shall be
dedicated to the city. Management and maintenance of the public recreational
areas shall be the responsibility of the city.
   (5)   Neighborhood configuration.
      (a)   In order to establish a cohesive neighborhood unit, residential
lots shall be located in a neighborhood cluster. A neighborhood cluster shall
include a minimum of four lots or 50% of the allowable number of lots on the
parcel to be subdivided, whichever is greater. An efficiency of land
utilization and community development should be encouraged by maximizing the
number of lots in any one cluster development, while adhering to the underlying
density and open space requirements of this chapter.
      (b)   A neighborhood cluster shall be oriented toward an identifiable
feature which all residential units share in common. Neighborhood identity may
be accomplished by one or more of the following features:
         1.   View shed. The lots of a neighborhood may be arranged such that a
majority of the principal structures will take visual advantage of a field,
wetland, woods, lake, stream, or other open space which could be described as a
view shed.
         2.   Physical amenity. The lots of a neighborhood may be arranged such
that a majority of the principal structures will face a green, playground, ball
field, rock outcropping, stand of trees, church, school, or other physical
feature unique to that particular neighborhood.
         3.   Streetscape. The lots may be arranged such that the principal
structures will face a street space enhanced with landscaping, street trees,
boulevards, medians, or other landscaping techniques appropriate to the city's
street design standards.
   (6)   Densities.
      (a)   Subdivisions served by independent sewage treatment systems shall
not exceed eight units per 40 acres.
      (b)   Subdivisions served by a MPCA approved community sewer system shall
not exceed 12 units per 40 acres.
   (7)   The applicant must provide a management (maintenance, replacement and
repair) plan for centralized wastewater treatment system as approved by the
city. The management plan must be reviewed and approved by the City Council and
recorded with the final plat. The plan should clearly identify the following:
      (a)   The ownership of the centralized wastewater treatment system.
      (b)   An annual schedule for maintenance, inspection and monitoring of
the centralized wastewater treatment system.
      (c)   Assignment of responsibility for the management of and payment for
the centralized wastewater treatment system.
      (d)   Contingency plan in the event of failure of the centralized
wastewater treatment.
      (e)   Financial guarantees, covering the estimated cost of maintaining
and replacing a centralized system.
      (f)   Provisions describing how the sewage treatment portion of the
system will be protected from vehicles, animals, humans and other sources of
risk.
      (g)   The name and license number of the system's designer.
      (h)   Provision for cost effective future connection of the wastewater
treatment system(s) to urban services within one year after such services are
provided at the boundary of the development, with sufficient financial
guarantees to ensure no added cost to the city.
      (i)   If financial guarantees for any of the above provisions are part of
an association assessment or treasury fund, the city shall be given access to
annual audit records, at the expense of the association, to ensure proper
funding. If such guarantees are the private responsibility of the developer,
the city shall require guarantees from the responsible individual(s).
   (8)   Residential lots.
      (a)   Lots served by individual sewage treatment systems (ISTS) shall
have a minimum of one acre of buildable land area capable of accommodating the
principal dwelling, accessory buildings, and two individual soil treatment
systems (drainfields).
      (b)   Lots served by a MPCA approved community sewage treatment system
shall have a minimum lot area of 20,000 square feet of buildable land.
      (c)   No individual single-family lot may exceed five acres in size.
      (d)   Minimum lot width.
         1.   ISTS lots. 200 feet.
         2.   Lots served by a MPCA approved community sewage system.
            a.   Interior lot. 100 feet.
            b.   Corner lot. 125 feet.
      (e)   Setbacks. Setbacks shall be the same as those imposed in the
applicable base zoning district.
      (f)   Residential lots shall be sited in a manner that preserves existing
significant tree cover on the site.
      (g)   The lots of a neighborhood may be arranged so that a majority of
the principal structures will take visual advantage of an identifiable feature,
building, structure, greenway, wetland, woods, lake, stream or other open space
which could be described as a view shed.
      (h)   The lots may be arranged that the principal structures face a local
street enhanced with landscaping, street trees, boulevards, medians or other
landscaping techniques appropriate to the city's street design standards.
DISTRICT PROVISIONS
§ 1007.090 GENERAL ZONING DISTRICT PROVISIONS.
   (1)   District establishment. The zoning districts are designed to assist in
carrying out the intents and purposes of the Comprehensive Plan and to control
residential densities in such a manner as to adequately provide public services
and utilities. The zoning districts are based upon the Comprehensive Plan,
which has the purpose of protecting the public health, safety, convenience, and
general welfare by controlling the needs for public utilities, protecting
against traffic congestion and accident hazards, protecting the public health
from adverse influences generated by non-residential uses, protecting against
the danger of fire conflagration, and other purposes of a similar nature. For
purposes of this chapter, the City of Lino Lakes is divided into the following
zoning districts:
      (a)   Rural districts.
         1.   R, Rural.
         2.   R-X, Rural Executive.
      (b)   Residential districts.
         1.   R-1, Single Family Residential.
         2.   R-1X, Single Family Executive Residential.
         3.   R-2, Two Family Residential.
         4.   R-3, Medium Density Residential.
         5.   R-4, High Density Residential.
         6.   R-5, High Density Residential and Commercial.
         7.   R-6, Manufactured Home Park.
      (c)   Business districts.
         1.   NB, Neighborhood Business.
         2.   LB, Limited Business.
         3.   GB, General Business.
      (d)   Industrial districts.
         1.   LI, Light Industrial.
         2.   GI, General Industrial.
         3.   BC, Business Campus.
      (e)   Special districts.
         1.   PSP, Public and Semi-Public.
         2.   PUD, Planned Unit Development.
   (2)   Zoning district boundaries. Zoning district boundary lines established
by this chapter generally follow lot lines, the centerlines of railroad right-
of-way lines, street rights-of-way, water courses or the corporate limit lines,
all as they exist upon the effective date of this chapter.
      (a)   Appeals concerning the exact location of a zoning district boundary
line shall be heard by the Council, serving as the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals, pursuant to §
1007.018.
      (b)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by
official action of the city, the zoning district adjoining each side of such
street, alley or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of
such vacation, and all area included in the vacation shall then and henceforth
be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
      (c)   All streets, alleys, public ways and railroad rights-of-way, if not
otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as
the property in the most restrictive classification immediately abutting upon
such alleys, streets, public ways or railroad rights-of-way. Where the
centerline of a street, alley, public way or railroad right-of-way serves as a
district boundary, the zoning of such areas, unless otherwise specifically
designated, shall be deemed to be the same as that of the abutting property up
to such centerline.
      (d)   All areas within the corporate limits of the city which are under
water and which are not shown as included within any zone shall be subject to
all regulations of the zone which immediately adjoins such water area. If such
water area adjoins two or more zones, the boundaries of each zone shall be
construed to be extended into the water area in a straight line until they meet
the other district at the half-way point and/or to the corporation limits.
   (3)   Zoning map. The location and boundaries of the districts established
by this text are set forth on the zoning map, entitled “Zoning Map of Lino
Lakes”. The map shall be on file with the Zoning Administrator, and may be
referred to as the “Zoning Map”. The map and all the notations, references and
other information shown on it shall have the same force and effect as if fully
set forth herein and thereby made a part of this chapter by reference.
   (4)   Annexations. In the event of annexation proceedings becoming final
before the permanent zoning is determined, the annexed area shall be located in
the most restrictive district and such classification shall be considered an
interim step pending permanent classification.
   (5)   Exemptions. The following essential services are permitted in any
district: the erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance, by public
utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies of systems, including
gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems;
collection, communication systems, including communication equipment
facilities, supply or disposal systems; elevated and underground water storage
tanks; poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables; fire alarm
boxes, police call boxes; traffic signals, hydrants, and other similar
equipment and accessories in connection therewith, including city buildings and
parks; reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate service of such
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public
health or safety or general welfare.
RURAL DISTRICTS
§ 1007.100 R, RURAL DISTRICT.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 02-25, adopted 3-10-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to aid in guiding development
toward fulfillment of the Comprehensive Plan and to serve the following
functions:
      (a)   To preserve productive land for agricultural use and maintain open
space within and near urban areas.
      (b)   To help guide development of urban and rural areas to preserve
continuity and efficiency of service.
      (c)   To provide a method by which the urban farm can be guided to
control urban sprawl and conserve land economically until such time an
amendment to the Comprehensive Plan is needed.
   (2)   Lot and setback requirements.
      (a)   Minimum lot size. 10 gross acres. Two acres buildable, except as
provided for in §
1007.042(2)(b).
      (b)   Minimum lot width.  330 feet, except as provided for in §
1007.042(2)(b), which shall require a minimum lot width of 200 feet.
      (c)   Setbacks.
         1.   From street right-of-way.
            a.   Local or minor collector street. 30 feet.
            b.   Major collector or arterial street. 40 feet.
         2.   Rear lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 30 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 30 feet, except for properties three acres
or less, the setback shall be five feet.
         3.   Side lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 10 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 5 feet.
         4.   Parking lots for non-residential uses. 15 feet from all lot
lines.
      (d)   Rural lot subdivision. Principal and accessory buildings shall be
located on a lot so as to allow for future subdivision in compliance with §
1007.042(2)(d).
   (3)   Building requirements.
      (a)   The minimum building footprint, less garage area, for single family
dwellings shall be as follows:
         Rambler   1,050 square feet
         Split Level   980 square feet
         Two Story   850 square feet
   (4)   Maximum building height. 35 feet, except as allowed by §
1007.043(3).
   (5)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the R District:
      (a)   Agriculture, gardening, and sod farming.
      (b)   Commercial greenhouses and nurseries.
      (c)   Day care facilities serving 14 or fewer persons.
      (d)   Golf courses and driving ranges.
      (e)   Keeping of farm animals of up to 300 animal units in compliance
with
Chapter 503 of this code. No more than one animal unit per two acres.
      (f)   Public parks.
      (g)   Rural cluster in compliance with §
1007.074.
      (h)   Single family detached dwellings.
      (i)   State licensed residential care facility serving six or fewer
persons.
      (j)   Roadside stands for the sale of agricultural products produced on
the premises in compliance with §
1007.044(8).
      (k)   Winery and cider mill, without tasting room.
      (l)   Community gardens operated by the city.
   (6)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the R
District:
      (a)   Accessory apartments in compliance with §
1007.057.
      (b)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses in compliance with §
1007.044.
      (c)   Carports in compliance with §
1007.044(3).
      (d)   Fences in compliance with §
1007.050.
      (e)   Home occupation Level A in compliance with §
1007.056.
      (f)   Model homes with temporary real estate offices in compliance with §
1007.070.
      (g)   Off-street parking in compliance with §
1007.052.
      (h)   Operation, parking, or storage of motor vehicles, equipment and
machinery which are incidental and customary to permitted or conditional uses
allowed in this district.
      (i)   Radio and television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs
three meters or less in diameter, short-wave radio dispatching antennas, or
those necessary for the operation of electronic equipment including radio
receivers, ham radio transmitters, and television receivers in compliance with
§
1007.062.
      (j)   Signs in compliance with
Chapter 1010.
      (k)   Swimming pools, sport courts and other recreational facilities
which are operated for the enjoyment and convenience of the residents of the
principal use and their guests in compliance with §
1007.044.
   (7)   Conditional uses. The following uses require a conditional use permit
in compliance with §
1007.016:
      (a)   Agritourism in compliance with §
1007.067.
      (b)   Cemeteries provided that:
         1.   The site shall access on a collector or arterial street.
         2.   Where abutting a rural or residential zoning district, the
periphery of the site shall be screened in compliance with §
1007.049.
      (c)   Commercial and public radio and television transmitting antennas,
and public utility microwave antennas less than 200 feet in height in
compliance with §
1007.062.
      (d)   Commercial kennels and similar uses provided that:
         1.   The applicable provisions of City Code
Chapter 503 are satisfied.
         2.   Property shall be a minimum of five acres in size.
         3.   Cages, enclosures, and housing facilities shall be a minimum of
100 feet from any lot line.
      (e)   Veterinary hospitals provided that:
         1.   Property shall be in compliance with minimum lot size
requirements of this zoning district.
         2.   All areas in which animals are confined are located indoors and
are properly soundproofed from adjacent properties.
         3.   Animal carcasses are properly disposed of in a manner not
utilizing on-site garbage facilities or incineration and the carcasses are
properly refrigerated during periods prior to disposal.
         4.   An animal kennel is permitted as an accessory use to the
veterinary hospital provided that:
            a.   The number of animals boarded shall not exceed 40.
            b.   An enclosed indoor or exterior exercise area shall be provided
to accommodate the periodic exercising of animals boarded at the kennel.
            c.   A ventilation system shall be designed so that no odors or
organisms will spread between wards or to the outside air and will be capable
of completely exchanging internal air at a rate of at least twice per hour. Air
temperature must be maintained between 60- and 75- degrees Fahrenheit.
            d.   A room separate from the kennel area shall be provided of
sufficient size to adequately separate animals that are sick or injured from
healthy animals.
            e.   Indoor animal kennel floors and walls shall be made of non-
porous materials or sealed concrete to make it non-porous.
            f.   Animal wastes shall be flushed down an existing sanitary sewer
system or enclosed in a container of sufficient construction to eliminate odors
and organisms and shall be properly disposed of at least once a day.
            g.   A commercial kennel license is obtained from the city.
         5.   The applicable provisions of City Code
Chapter 503 are satisfied.
         6.   All State Health Department and Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency requirements for such facilities are met.
      (f)   Day care facilities serving more than 14 persons accessory to
public, educational, and religious uses provided that:
         1.   Screening is provided in compliance with §
1007.049.
         2.   All day care facility operations comply with the minimum
requirements of the Minnesota Department of Health and Human Services
regulations, as may be amended.
      (g)   Public and private airports provided that:
         1.   All applicable requirements of the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA), Minnesota Department of Transportation (MnDOT), and
Metropolitan Airports Commission (MAC) are satisfactorily met.
      (h)   Public, educational, and religious uses provided that:
         1.   The building setback shall be 50 feet from any side or rear lot
line.
         2.   The site shall access a collector or arterial street of
sufficient capacity to accommodate the traffic that will be generated.
      (i)   Wild game farms and gun clubs provided that:
         1.   The principal use, function, or activity is open and outdoor in
character, and the site shall contain a minimum of 100 acres.
         2.   Not more than 5% of the land area of the site be covered by
buildings or structures.
         3.   Any operation involving the discharge of firearms shall comply
with City Code
Chapter 504.
         4.   When abutting a residential use and a residential district, the
property is screened and landscaped in compliance with §
1007.049.
      (j)   Commercial stables in compliance with §
1007.066.
      (k)   Sacred communities and micro-unit dwellings accessory to religious
uses in compliance with M.S. § 327.30.
   (8)   Uses by administrative permit. The following uses require an
administrative permit in compliance with §
1007.019:
      (a)   Personal wireless service antennas as secondary uses in compliance
with §
1007.062.
      (b)   Home Occupation Level B in compliance with §
1007.056.
      (c)   Essential services.
      (d)   Open air market accessory to an institutional use and limited in
area to 25% of the gross floor area of the principal building.
      (e)   Temporary structures in compliance with §
1007.071.
      (f)   Transient merchants.
   (9)   Interim uses. The following uses require an interim use permit in
compliance with §
1007.017:
      (a)   Batch plants in compliance with §
1007.064.
      (b)   Earth moving and land reclamation in compliance with §
1007.059.
      (c)   Home Occupation Level C in compliance with §
1007.056.
(Am. Ord. 04-24, passed 5-28-2024)
§ 1007.101 R-X, RURAL EXECUTIVE DISTRICT.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to aid in guiding development
toward fulfillment of the Comprehensive Plan and to serve the following
functions:
      (a)   To preserve productive land for agricultural use and maintain open
space within and near urban areas.
      (b)   To help guide development of urban and rural areas to preserve
continuity and efficiency of service.
      (c)   To provide a method by which the urban farm can be guided to
control urban sprawl and conserve land economically until such time an
amendment to the Comprehensive Plan is needed.
      (d)   To provide areas for high value, rural residences.
   (2)   Lot and setback requirements.
      (a)   Minimum lot size. Ten gross acres. Two acres buildable, except as
provided for in §
1007.042(2)(b).
      (b)   Minimum lot width. 330 feet, except as provided for in §
1007.042(2)(b) which shall require a minimum lot width 200 feet.
      (c)   Setbacks.
         1.   From street right-of-way.
            a.   Local or minor collector street. 30 feet.
            b.   Major collector or arterial street. 40 feet.
         2.   Rear lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 30 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 30 feet, except for properties three acres
or less, the setback shall be five feet.
         3.   Side lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 10 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 5 feet.
         4.   Parking lots for non-residential uses. 15 feet from all lot
lines.
      (d)   Rural lot subdivision. Principal and accessory buildings shall be
located on a lot so as to allow for future subdivision in compliance with §
1007.042(2)(d).
   (3)   Building requirements.
      (a)   The minimum building footprint, less garage area, for single family
dwellings shall be as follows:
         Rambler   1,260 square feet
         Split Level   1,248 square feet
         Two Story   1,040 square feet
   (4)   Maximum building height. 35 feet, except as allowed by §
1007.043(3).
   (5)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the R-X District:
      (a)   Agriculture, gardening, and sod farming.
      (b)   Commercial greenhouses and nurseries.
      (c)   Day care facilities serving 14 or fewer persons.
      (d)   Golf courses and driving ranges.
      (e)   Keeping of farm animals of up to 300 animal units in compliance
with City Code
Chapter 503. No more than one animal unit per two acres.
      (f)   Public parks.
      (g)   Rural cluster in compliance with §
1007.074.
      (h)   Single family detached dwellings.
      (i)   State licensed residential care facility serving six or fewer
persons.
      (j)   Roadside stands for the sale of agricultural products produced on
the premises in compliance with §
1007.044(7).
      (k)   Community gardens operated by the city.
   (6)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the R-
X District:
      (a)   Accessory apartments in compliance with §
1007.057.
      (b)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses in compliance with §
1007.044.
      (c)   Carports in compliance with §
1007.044(3).
      (d)   Fences in compliance with §
1007.050.
      (e)   Home occupation Level A in compliance with §
1007.056.
      (f)   Model homes with temporary real estate offices in compliance with §
1007.070.
      (g)   Off-street parking in compliance with §
1007.052.
      (h)   Operation, parking, or storage of motor vehicles, equipment and
machinery which are incidental and customary to permitted or conditional uses
allowed in this district.
      (i)   Radio and television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs
three meters or less in diameter, short-wave radio dispatching antennas, or
those necessary for the operation of electronic equipment including radio
receivers, ham radio transmitters and television receivers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (j)   Signs in compliance with City Code
Chapter 1010.
      (k)   Swimming pools, sport courts and other recreational facilities
which are operated for the enjoyment and convenience of the residents of the
principal use and their guests in compliance with §
1007.044.
   (7)   Conditional uses. The following uses require a conditional use permit
in compliance with§
1007.016:
      (a)   Cemeteries provided that:
         1.   The site shall access on a collector or arterial street.
         2.   Where abutting a rural or residential zoning district, the
periphery of the site shall be screened in compliance with §
1007.049.
      (b)   Commercial and public radio and television transmitting antennas,
and public utility microwave antennas less than 200 feet in height in
compliance with §
1007.062.
      (c)   Commercial kennels and similar uses provided that:
         1.   The applicable provisions of City Code
Chapter 503 are satisfied.
         2.   Property shall be a minimum of five acres in size.
         3.   Cages, enclosures, and housing facilities shall be a minimum of
100 feet from any lot line.
      (d)   Veterinary hospitals provided that:
         1.   Property shall be in compliance with minimum lot size
requirements of this zoning district.
         2.   All areas in which animals are confined are located indoors and
are properly soundproofed from adjacent properties.
         3.   Animal carcasses are properly disposed of in a manner not
utilizing on-site garbage facilities or incineration and the carcasses are
properly refrigerated during periods prior to disposal.
         4.   An animal kennel is permitted as an accessory use to the
veterinary, hospital provided that:
            a.   The number of animals boarded shall not exceed 40.
            b.   An enclosed indoor or exterior exercise area shall be provided
to accommodate the periodic exercising of animals boarded at the kennel.
            c.   A ventilation system shall be designed so that no odors or
organisms will spread between wards or to the outside air and will be capable
of completely exchanging internal air at a rate of at least twice per hour. Air
temperature must be maintained between 60 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit.
            d.   A room separate from the kennel area shall be provided of
sufficient size to adequately separate animals that are sick or injured from
healthy animals.
            e.   Indoor animal kennel floors and walls shall be made of non-
porous materials or sealed concrete to make it non-porous.
            f.   Animal wastes shall be flushed down an existing sanitary sewer
system or enclosed in a container of sufficient construction to eliminate odors
and organisms and shall be properly disposed of at least once a day.
            g.   A commercial kennel license is obtained from the city.
         5.   The applicable provisions of City Code Chapter 503 are satisfied.
         6.   All State Health Department and Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency requirements for such facilities are met.
      (e)   Day care facilities serving more than 14 persons accessory to
public, educational, and religious uses provided that:
         1.   Screening is provided in compliance with the applicable
provisions of §
1007.049.
         2.   All day care facility operations comply with the minimum
requirements of the Minnesota Department of Health and Human Services
regulations, as may be amended.
      (f)   Public, educational, and religious uses provided that:
         1.   The building setback shall be 50 feet from any side or rear lot
line.
         2.   The site shall access a collector or arterial street of
sufficient capacity to accommodate the traffic that will be generated.
      (g)   Commercial stables in compliance with §
1007.066.
      (h)   Sacred communities and micro-unit dwellings accessory to religious
uses in compliance with M.S. § 327.30.
   (8)   Uses by administrative permit. The following uses require an
administrative permit in compliance with §
1007.019:
      (a)   Personal wireless service antennas as secondary uses in compliance
with §
1007.062 of this chapter.
      (b)   Home Occupation Level B in compliance with §
1007.056.
      (c)   Essential services.
      (d)   Open air market accessory to an institutional use and limited in
area to 25% of the gross floor area of the principal building.
      (e)   Temporary structures in compliance with §
1007.071.
      (f)   Transient merchants.
   (9)   Interim uses. The following uses require an interim use permit in
compliance with
1007.017:
      (a)   Batch plants in compliance with §
1007.064.
      (b)   Earth moving and land reclamation in compliance with §
1007.059.
      (c)   Home Occupation Level C in compliance with §
1007.056.
(Am. Ord. 04-24, passed 5-28-2024)
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 1007.110 R-1, SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to provide a residential
atmosphere for those persons desiring a single family neighborhood with a
suburban density. This district is intended for development of single family
detached homes on lots served with public sanitary sewer and water. Land to be
zoned R-1 shall be served with public sanitary sewer and water and shall be in
a Low Density Residential land use category according to the comprehensive
plan. The development density shall be consistent with that land use category.
   (2)   Lot and setback requirements.
      (a)   Minimum lot size. 10,800 square feet contiguous buildable land as
defined by §
1007.001(2).
      (b)   Minimum lot width.
         1.   Interior lots. 80 feet.
         2.   Corner lots. 100 feet.
         3.   Lots of one and one-half acres recorded prior to February 22,
1988 may be subdivided in compliance with the following:
            a.   Interior lots. 75 feet.
            b.   Corner lots. 95 feet.
      (c)   Minimum lot depth. 135 feet.
         1.   Double frontage lots. 145 feet.
      (d)   Setbacks.
         1.   From street right-of-way.
            a.   Local or minor collector street. 30 feet.
            b.   Major collector or arterial street. 40 feet.
         2.   Rear lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 30 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 5 feet.
         3.   Side lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 10 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 5 feet.
         4.   Parking lots for non-residential uses. 15 feet from all lot
lines.
      (e)   Buffer. Any property adjacent to a collector or arterial street
shall provide a 15-foot-wide buffer in compliance with §
1007.049.
   (3)   Maximum impervious surface coverage. 65% of the lot area.
   (4)   Building requirements.
      (a)   The minimum building footprint, less garage area, for single family
dwellings shall be as follows:
         Rambler      1,050 square feet
         Split Level      980 square feet
         Two Story      850 square feet
      (b)   All dwellings shall comply with the design and construction
standards of §
1007.043(2).
   (5)   Maximum building height. 35 feet except as allowed by §
1007.043(3).
   (6)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the R-1 District:
      (a)   Day care facilities serving 14 or fewer persons.
      (b)   Public parks.
      (c)   Single-family detached dwellings.
      (d)   State licensed residential care facility serving six or fewer
persons.
      (e)   Community gardens operated by the city.
   (7)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the R-
1 District:
      (a)   Accessory apartments in compliance with §
1007.057.
      (b)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses in compliance with City
Code Section
1007.044.
      (c)   Carports in compliance with §
1007.044(3).
      (d)   Fences in compliance with §
1007.050.
      (e)   Home Occupation Level A in compliance with §
1007.056.
      (f)   Model homes with temporary real estate offices in compliance with §
1007.070.
      (g)   Non-commercial greenhouses not to exceed a footprint of 200 square
feet.
      (h)   Off-street parking in compliance with §
1007.052.
      (i)   Parking spaces and carports for licensed and operable passenger
motor vehicles.
      (j)   Radio and television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs
three meters or less in diameter, short-wave radio dispatching antennas, or
those necessary for the operation of electronic equipment including radio
receivers, ham radio transmitters, and television receivers in compliance with
§
1007.062.
      (k)   Signs in compliance with City Code
Chapter 1010.
      (l)   Swimming pools, sport courts, and other recreational facilities
which are operated for the use of the residents of the principal use and their
guests in compliance with §
1007.044. This does not include racing/riding courses for off-road vehicles.
   (8)   Conditional uses. The following uses require a conditional use permit
in compliance with §
1007.016:
      (a)   Cemeteries provided that:
         1.   The site shall access on a collector or arterial street.
         2.   Where abutting a rural or residential zoning district, the
periphery of the site shall be screened in compliance with §
1007.049.
      (b)   Commercial outdoor recreational areas including golf courses,
country clubs, driving ranges, swimming pools, and similar facilities provided
that:
         1.   The principal use, function, or activity is open and outdoor in
character.
         2.   Not more than 5% of the land area of the site be covered by
buildings or structures.
         3.   When abutting a residential use and a residential use district,
the property is screened and landscaped in compliance with §
1007.049.
         4.   The site shall access on a collector or arterial street.
      (c)   Day care facilities accessory to public, educational, and religious
uses provided that:
         1.   Day care facility shall be connected to public sewer and water.
         2.   Screening is provided in compliance with the applicable
provisions of §
1007.049.
         3.   All day care facility operations comply with the minimum
requirements of the Minnesota Department of Health and Human Services
regulations, as may be amended.
      (d)   Public, educational, and religious uses provided that:
         1.   Side yards shall not be less than 50 feet.
         2.   Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and landscaping
is provided in compliance with §
1007.049.
         3.   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site or
on lots directly abutting directly across a public street or alley to the
principal use in compliance with §
1007.052 and that such parking is adequately screened and landscaped from
surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with §
1007.049.
      (e)   Sacred communities and micro-unit dwellings accessory to religious
uses in compliance with M.S. § 327.30.
   (9)   Uses by administrative permit. The following uses require an
administrative permit in compliance with §
1007.019:
      (a)   Personal wireless service antennas as secondary uses in compliance
with §
1007.062.
      (b)   Home Occupation Level B in compliance with §
1007.056.
      (c)   Essential services.
      (d)   Open air market accessory to an institutional use and limited in
area to 25% of the gross floor area of the principal building.
      (e)   Temporary structures in compliance with §
1007.071.
      (f)   Transient merchants.
   (10)   Interim uses. The following uses require an interim use permit in
compliance with §
1007.017:
      (a)   Earth moving and land reclamation in compliance with §
1007.059.
(Am. Ord. 04-24, passed 5-28-2024)
§ 1007.111 R-1X, SINGLE FAMILY EXECUTIVE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to provide a residential
atmosphere for those persons desiring a single-family neighborhood with a
suburban density. This district is intended for development of single-family
detached homes on lots served with public sewer and water. Land to be zoned R-
1X shall be served with public sanitary sewer and water and shall be in a Low
Density Residential land use category according to the comprehensive plan. The
development density shall be consistent with that land use category.
   (2)   Lot and setback requirements.
      (a)   Minimum lot size. 12,825 square feet contiguous buildable land as
defined by §
1007.001(2).
      (b)   Minimum lot width.
         1.   Interior lots. 90 feet.
         2.   Corner lots. 115 feet.
      (c)   Minimum lot depth. 135 feet.
         1.   Double frontage lots. 145 feet.
      (d)   Setbacks.
         1.   From street right-of-way.
            a.   Local or minor collector street. 30 feet.
            b.   Major collector or arterial street. 40 feet.
         2.   Rear lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 30 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 5 feet.
         3.   Side lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 10 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 5 feet.
         4.   Parking lots for non-residential uses. 15 feet from all lot
lines.
      (e)   Buffer. Any property adjacent to a collector or arterial street
shall provide a 15-foot-wide buffer in compliance with §
1007.049.
   (3)   Maximum impervious surface coverage. 65% of the lot area.
   (4)   Building requirements.
      (a)   The minimum building footprint, less garage area, for single family
dwellings shall be as follows:
         Rambler   1,260   square feet
         Split Level   1,248   square feet
         Two Story   1,040   square feet
      (b)   All dwellings shall comply with the design and construction
standards of §
1007.043(2).
   (5)   Maximum building height. 35 feet except as allowed by §
1007.043(3).
   (6)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the R-1X District:
      (a)   Day care facilities serving 14 or fewer persons.
      (b)   Public parks.
      (c)   Single-family detached dwellings.
      (d)   State licensed residential care facility serving six or fewer
persons.
      (e)   Community gardens operated by the city.
   (7)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the R-1X
District:
      (a)   Accessory apartments in compliance with §
1007.057.
      (b)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses in compliance with §
1007.044.
      (c)   Carports in compliance with §
1007.044(3).
      (d)   Fences in compliance with §
1007.050.
      (e)   Home Occupation Level A in compliance with§
1007.056.
      (f)   Model homes with temporary real estate offices in compliance with §
1007.070.
      (g)   Non-commercial greenhouses provided they do not exceed 200 square
feet in area.
      (h)   Off-street parking in compliance with §
1007.052.
      (i)   Parking spaces and carports for licensed and operable passenger
motor vehicles.
      (j)   Radio and television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs
three meters or less in diameter, short-wave radio dispatching antennas, or
those necessary for the operation of electronic equipment including radio
receivers, ham radio transmitters and television receivers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (k)   Signs in compliance with City Code
Chapter 1010.
      (l)   Swimming pools, sport courts, and other recreational facilities
which are operated for the use of the residents of the principal use and their
guests in compliance with §
1007.043(d). This does not include racing/riding courses for off-road vehicles.
   (8)   Conditional uses. The following uses require a conditional use permit
in compliance with §
1007.016:
      (a)   Cemeteries provided that:
         1.   The site shall access on a collector or arterial street.
         2.   Where abutting a rural or residential zoning district, the
periphery of the site shall be screened in compliance with §
1007.049.
      (b)   Commercial outdoor recreational areas including golf courses,
country clubs, driving ranges, swimming pools, and similar facilities provided
that:
         1.   The principal use, function or activity is open and outdoor in
character.
         2.   Not more than 5% of the land area of the site be covered by
buildings or structures.
         3.   When abutting a residential use and a residential use district,
the property is screened and landscaped in compliance with §
1007.049.
         4.   The site shall access a collector street or arterial street.
      (c)   Day care facilities serving more than 14 persons accessory to
public, educational, and religious uses provided that:
         1.   Day care facility shall be connected to public sewer and water.
         2.   Screening is provided in compliance with the applicable
provisions of §
1007.049.
         3.   All day care facility operations comply with the minimum
requirements of the Minnesota Department of Health and Human Services
regulations, as may be amended.
      (d)   Public, educational, and religious buildings provided that:
         1.   Side yards shall not be less than 50 feet.
         2.   Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and landscaping
is provided in compliance with §
1007.049.
         3.   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site or
on lots directly abutting directly across a public street or alley to the
principal use in compliance with §
1007.052 and that such parking is adequately screened and landscaped from
surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with §
1007.049.
      (e)   Sacred communities and micro-unit dwellings accessory to religious
uses in compliance with M.S. § 327.30.
   (9)   Uses by administrative permit. The following uses require an
administrative permit in compliance with §
1007.019:
      (a)   Personal wireless service antennas as secondary uses in compliance
with §
1007.052.
      (b)   Home Occupation Level B in compliance with §
1007.056.
      (c)   Essential services.
      (d)   Open air market accessory to an institutional use and limited in
area to 25% of the gross floor area of the principal building.
      (e)   Temporary structures in compliance with §
1007.071.
      (f)   Transient merchants.
   (10)   Interim uses. The following uses require an interim use permit in
compliance with §
1007.017:
      (a)   Earth moving and land reclamation in compliance with §
1007.059.
(Am. Ord. 04-24, passed 5-28-2024)
§ 1007.112 R-2, TWO FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to provide for development of
single family and two family homes. Land to be zoned R-2 shall be served with
public sanitary sewer and water and shall be in a Low Density Residential, Low
Density Mixed Residential, or Medium Density Residential land use category
according to the comprehensive plan. The development density shall be
consistent with the applicable land use category.
   (2)   Lot and setback requirements.
      (a)   Minimum lot size. Lot size shall consist of contiguous buildable
land as defined by §
1007.001(2).
         1.   Two family.
            a.   Base lots. 15,000 square feet.
            b.   Unit lots. 7,500 square feet.
         2.   Single family. 7,500 square feet.
      (b)   Minimum lot width.   
         1.   Two family.
            a.   Base lots. 100 feet.
            b.   Unit lots. 50 feet.
         2.   Single family.
            a.   Interior lots. 60 feet.
            b.   Corner lots. 80 feet.
      (c)   Minimum lot depth. 125 feet.
         1.   Double frontage lots. 135 feet.
      (d)   Setbacks.
         1.   From street right-of-way.
            a.   Local or minor collector street. 25 feet.
            b.   Major collector or arterial street. 40 feet.
         2.   Rear lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 25 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 5 feet.
         3.   Side lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 10 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 5 feet.
         4.   Parking lots for non-residential uses. 15 feet from all lot
lines.
         5.   Zero lot line. Side yard setback requirements shall not be
applied to a common
wall of a two family dwelling unit.
      (e)   Buffer. Where a side or rear lot line abuts a collector or arterial
street a 15 foot wide buffer shall be provided in compliance with §
1007.049.
   (3)   Maximum impervious surface coverage. 65% of the lot area.
   (4)   Building requirements.
      (a)   The minimum building footprint, less garage area, for single and
two family dwellings shall be as follows:
         1.   Single family dwellings.
            Rambler      1,050 square feet
            Split Level      980 square feet
            Two Story      850 square feet
         2.   Two family dwellings. 800 square feet first floor above grade,
plus 100 additional square feet for each bedroom.
      (b)   Garages. All single family dwellings shall have a garage and shall
comply with the following:
         1.   Compliance with the building type and construction standards of §
1007.043(2); and
         2.   All garages, except side or rear loaded garages, shall not
protrude forward of the front wall of the house, unless the house includes a
front porch that is unenclosed, a minimum of six feet in depth, and extends
across 100% of the front facade of the house. The garage shall then not
protrude forward of the front porch, and
         3.   If the garage door faces the street, the length of the garage
wall facing the street shall not be greater than 50% of the length of the
entire front facade of the structure; except on houses that comply with all of
the following conditions:
            a.   The second floor living space extends over the two-car portion
of the garage; and
            b.   The garage doors are decorative and have a strip of windows;
and
            c.   Garages in excess of two stalls shall be broken up so the
additional stalls are recessed two feet from the main garage facade; and
            d.   Garage width does not exceed 32 feet.
      (c)   All dwellings shall comply with the design and construction
standards of §
1007.043(2).
   (5)   Maximum building height. 35 feet except as allowed by §
1007.043(3).
   (6)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the R-2 District:
      (a)   Day care facilities serving 14 or fewer persons.
      (b)   Public parks.
      (c)   Single family detached dwellings.
      (d)   State licensed residential care facility serving 16 or fewer
persons.
      (e)   Two family dwellings.
      (f)   Community gardens operated by the city.
   (7)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the R-
2 District:
      (a)   Accessory apartments within single family homes in compliance with
§
1007.057.
      (b)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses in compliance with §
1007.044.
      (c)   Carports in compliance with §
1007.044(3).
      (d)   Fences per §
1007.050.
      (e)   Home Occupation Level A in compliance with
1007.056.
      (f)   Model homes with temporary real estate offices in compliance with §
1007.070.
      (g)   Non-commercial greenhouses provided they do not exceed 200 square
feet in area.
      (h)   Off-street parking in compliance with §
1007.052.
      (i)   Parking and carports for licensed and operable passenger cars and
trucks.
      (j)   Radio and television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs
three meters or less in diameter, short-wave radio dispatching antennas, or
those necessary for the operation of electronic equipment including radio
receivers, ham radio transmitters and television receivers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (k)   Signs in compliance with City Code
Chapter 1010 of the City Code.
      (l)   Swimming pools, sport courts, and other recreational facilities
which are operated for the use of the residents of the principal use and their
guests in compliance with City Code Section
1007.044. This does not include racing/riding courses for off-road vehicles.
   (8)   Conditional uses. The following uses require a conditional use permit
in compliance with §
1007.016:
      (a)   Commercial outdoor recreational areas including golf courses,
country clubs, driving ranges, swimming pools, and similar facilities provided
that:
         1.   The principal use, function, or activity is open and outdoor in
character.
         2.   Not more than 5% of the land area of the site be covered by
buildings or structures.
         3.   When abutting a residential use and a residential use district,
the property is screened and landscaped in compliance with §
1007.049.
         4.   The site shall access a collector street or arterial street.
      (b)   Day care facilities serving more than 14 persons accessory to
public, educational, and religious uses provided that:
         1.   Day care facility shall be connected to public sewer and water.
         2.   Screening is provided in compliance with the applicable
provisions of §
1007.049.
         3.   All day care facility operations comply with the minimum
requirements of the Minnesota Department of Health and Human Services
regulations, as may be amended.
      (c)   Public, educational, and religious uses provided that:
         1.   The building setback shall be 50 feet from any side lot line.
         2.   Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and landscaping
is provided in compliance with §
1007.049.
         3.   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site or
on lots directly abutting directly across a public street or alley to the
principal use in compliance with §
1007.052 and that such parking is adequately screened and landscaped from
surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with §
1007.049.
      (d)   Sacred communities and micro-unit dwellings accessory to religious
uses in compliance with M.S. § 327.30.
   (9)   Uses by administrative permit. The following uses require an
administrative permit in compliance with §
1007.019:
      (a)   Personal wireless service antennas as secondary uses in compliance
with §
1007.062.
      (b)   Home Occupation Level B in compliance with §
1007.056.
      (c)   Essential services.
      (d)   Open air market accessory to an institutional use and limited in
area to 25% of the gross floor area of the principal building.
      (e)   Temporary structures in compliance with §
1007.071.
      (f)   Transient merchants.
   (10)   Interim uses. The following uses require an interim use permit in
compliance with §
1007.017:
      (a)   Earth moving and land reclamation in compliance with §
1007.059.
(Am. Ord. 04-24, passed 5-28-2024)
§ 1007.113 R-3, MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to provide setting for
multiple family structures of up to eight dwelling units per building. Land to
be zoned R-3 shall be served with public sanitary sewer and water and shall be
in a Medium or High Density Residential land use category according to the
comprehensive plan. The development density shall be consistent with the
applicable land use category.
   (2)   Lot and setback requirements.
      (a)   Minimum lot size. Lot size shall consist of contiguous buildable
land as defined by §
1007.001(2).
         1.   Base lots.
            a.   Two family dwellings. 14,000 square feet.
            b.   Townhomes and other multiple-family dwellings. 24,000 square
feet.
         2.   Single family. 7,500 square feet.
      (b)   Minimum lot width.   
         1.   Base lots. 100 feet.
      (c)   Minimum lot depth. There is no minimum lot depth in the R-3 zoning
district.
      (d)   Setbacks.
         1.   From street right-of-way.
            a.   Local or minor collector street. 30 feet.
            b.   Major collector or arterial street. 40 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 15 feet.
         2.   Rear lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 30 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 5 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 5 feet
         3.   Side lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 10 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 5 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 5 feet
         4.   Zero lot line. Side yard setback requirements shall not be
applied to a common wall of multi-family dwelling units.
         5.   From low density residential. The principal buildings setback
shall be 35 feet from any land guided for low density residential.
      (e)   Buffer. Where a side or rear lot line abuts land guided for low
density residential, a collector street, or an arterial street, a 20-foot wide
buffer shall be provided in compliance with §
1007.049.
   (3)   Maximum impervious surface coverage. 65% of the lot area.
   (4)   Building requirements.
      (a)   Floor area. The minimum livable floor area for each multiple-family
dwelling unit shall be 700 square feet plus 100 additional square feet for each
bedroom.
      (b)   Utility area. Dwellings with dedicated individual access shall be
required to provide an additional 100 square feet of floor area to house
utilities, unless a basement is present. Dwellings with shared access shall be
required to provide adequate floor area within the building to house utilities.
      (c)   All dwelling units shall have parking provided in compliance with §
1007.052(6).
      (d)   All dwellings shall comply with the design and construction
standards of §
1007.043(2).
   (5)   Maximum building height. The greater of three stories or 40 feet,
except as allowed by §
1007.043(3).
   (6)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the R-3 District:
      (a)   Day care facilities serving 14 or fewer persons.
      (b)   Multiple-family dwellings containing eight units or less.
      (c)   Public parks.
      (d)   State licensed residential care facility serving 16 or fewer
persons.
      (e)   Townhomes.
      (f)   Two family dwellings.
      (g)   Community gardens operated by the city.
   (7)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the R-
3 District:
      (a)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses in compliance with §
1007.044.
      (b)   Carports in compliance with §
1007.044(3).
      (c)   Fences per §
1007.050.
      (d)   Home Occupation Level A in compliance with
1007.056.
      (e)   Model homes with temporary real estate offices in compliance with §
1007.070.
      (f)   Non-commercial greenhouses provided they do not exceed 200 square
feet in area.
      (g)   Off-street parking in compliance with §
1007.052.
      (h)   Parking and carports for licensed and operable passenger motor
vehicles.
      (i)   Radio and television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs
three meters or less in diameter, short-wave radio dispatching antennas, or
those necessary for the operation of electronic equipment including radio
receivers, ham radio transmitters and television receivers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (j)   Signs in compliance with City Code
Chapter 1010.
      (k)   Swimming pools, sport courts, and other recreational facilities
which are operated for the use of the residents of the principal use and their
guests in compliance with City Code Section
1007.044. This does not include racing/riding courses for off-road vehicles.
   (8)   Conditional uses. The following uses require a conditional use permit
in compliance with §
1007.016:
      (a)   Commercial outdoor recreational areas including golf courses,
country clubs, driving ranges, swimming pools, and similar facilities provided
that:
         1.   The principal use, function, or activity is open and outdoor in
character.
         2.   Not more than 5% of the land area of the site be covered by
buildings or structures.
         3.   When abutting a residential use and a residential use district,
the property is screened and landscaped in compliance with §
1007.049.
         4.   The site shall access a collector street or arterial street.
      (b)   Day care facilities accessory to public, educational, and religious
uses provided that:
         1.   Day care facility shall be connected to public sewer and water.
         2.   Screening is provided in compliance with the applicable
provisions of §
1007.049.
         3.   All day care facility operations comply with the minimum
requirements of the Minnesota Department of Health and Human Services
regulations, as may be amended.
      (c)   Public, educational, and religious uses provided that:
         1.   The building setback shall be 50 feet from any side lot line.
         2.   Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and landscaping
is provided in compliance with §
1007.049.
         3.   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site or
on lots directly abutting or directly across a public street or alley to the
principal use in compliance with §
1007.052 and that such parking is adequately screened and landscaped from
surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with §
1007.049.
      (d)   Sacred communities and micro-unit dwellings accessory to religious
uses in compliance with M.S. § 327.30.
   (9)   Uses by administrative permit. The following uses require an
administrative permit in compliance with §
1007.019:
      (a)   Personal wireless service antennas as secondary uses in compliance
with §
1007.062.
      (b)   Home Occupation Level B in compliance with §
1007.056.
      (c)   Essential services.
      (d)   Open air market accessory to an institutional use and limited in
area to 25% of the gross floor area of the principal building.
      (e)   Temporary structures in compliance with §
1007.071.
      (f)   Transient merchants.
   (10)   Interim uses. The following uses require an interim use permit in
compliance with §
1007.017:
      (a)   Earth moving and land reclamation in compliance with §
1007.059.
(Am. Ord. 04-24, passed 5-28-2024)
§ 1007.114 R-4, HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to provide a setting for
multiple family housing in areas that have good thoroughfare access. Land to be
zoned R-4 shall be served with public sanitary sewer and water and shall be in
a High Density Residential land use category according to the comprehensive
plan. The development density shall be consistent with that land use category.
   (2)   Lot and setback requirements.
      (a)   Minimum lot size. Lot size shall consist of contiguous buildable
land as defined by §
1007.001(2).
         1.   Base lots.
            a.   Two family. 12,000 square feet.
            b.   Townhomes and other multiple-family dwellings. 20,000 square
feet.
      (b)   Minimum lot width.   
         1.   Base lots. 100 feet.
      (c)   Minimum lot depth. There is no minimum lot depth in the R-4 zoning
district.
      (d)   Setbacks.
         1.   From street right-of-way.
            a.   Local or minor collector street. 30 feet.
            b.   Major collector or arterial street. 40 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 15 feet.
         2.   Rear lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 30 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 5 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 5 feet
         3.   Side lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 20 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 5 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 5 feet
         4.   Zero lot line. Side yard setback requirements shall not be
applied to a common wall of multi-family dwelling units.
         5.   From low density residential district. The principal buildings
setback shall be 35 feet from any land guided for low density residential.
      (e)   Buffer. Where a side or rear lot line abuts land guided for low
density residential, a collector street, or an arterial street, a 20-foot wide
buffer shall be provided in compliance with §
1007.049.
   (3)   Maximum impervious surface coverage. 65% of the lot area.
   (4)   Floor area. The minimum livable floor area for each multiple-family
dwelling unit shall be 700 square feet plus 100 additional square feet for each
bedroom.
   (5)   Utility area. Dwellings with dedicated individual access shall be
required to provide an additional 100 square feet of floor area to house
utilities, unless a basement is present. Dwellings with shared access shall be
required to provide adequate floor area within the building to house utilities.
   (6)   All dwelling units shall have parking provided in compliance with §
1007.052(11).
   (7)   All dwellings shall comply with the design and construction standards
of §
1007.043(2).
   (8)   Maximum building height. The greater of three stories or 40 feet,
except as allowed by §
1007.043(3).
   (9)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the R-4 District:
      (a)   Day care facilities serving 14 or fewer persons.
      (b)   Multiple-family dwellings.
      (c)   Public parks.
      (d)   State licensed residential care facility serving 16 or fewer
persons.
      (e)   Townhomes.
      (f)   Two family dwellings.
      (g)   Community gardens operated by the city.
   (10)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the R-
4 District:
      (a)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses in compliance with §
1007.044.
      (b)   Carports in compliance with §
1007.044(3).
      (c)   Fences per §
1007.050.
      (d)   Home Occupation Level A in compliance with 1007.056.
      (e)   Model homes with temporary real estate offices in compliance with §
1007.070.
      (f)   Off-street parking in compliance with §
1007.052.
      (g)   Parking and carports for licensed and operable passenger motor
vehicles.
      (h)   Radio and television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs
three meters or less in diameter, short-wave radio dispatching antennas, or
those necessary for the operation of electronic equipment including radio
receivers, ham radio transmitters and television receivers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (i)   Signs in compliance with City Code
Chapter 1010.
      (j)   Swimming pools, sport courts, and other recreational facilities
which are operated for the use of the residents of the principal use and their
guests in compliance with City Code Section
1007.044. This does not include racing/riding courses for off-road vehicles.
   (11)   Conditional uses. The following uses require a conditional use permit
in compliance with §
1007.016:
      (a)   Assisted living facilities and nursing homes provided that:
         1.   Side yards are double the minimum requirements established for
this district and are screened in compliance with §
1007.049.
         2.   Only the rear yard shall be used for play or recreational areas.
Said area shall be fenced and controlled and screened in compliance with §
1007.049.
         3.   The site shall be served by an arterial or collector street of
sufficient capacity to accommodate traffic which will be generated.
         4.   All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be in compliance with City Code
Chapter 1010.
         5.   All state statutes and regulations governing such use are
strictly adhered to and all required operating permits are secured.
         6.   Adequate off-street parking is provided in compliance with §
1007.052.
         7.   Adequate off-street loading space is provided in compliance with
§
1007.053.
      (b)   Commercial outdoor recreational areas including golf courses,
country clubs, driving ranges, swimming pools, and similar facilities provided
that:
         1.   The principal use, function, or activity is open and outdoor in
character.
         2.   Not more than 5% of the land area of the site be covered by
buildings or structures.
         3.   When abutting a residential use and a residential use district,
the property is screened and landscaped in compliance with §
1007.049.
         4.   The site shall access a collector street or arterial street.
      (c)   Day care facilities serving more than 16 persons provided that:
         1.   Day care facility shall be connected to public sewer and water.
         2.   Screening is provided in compliance with the applicable
provisions of §
1007.049.
         3.   All day care facility operations comply with the minimum
requirements of the Minnesota Department of Health and Human Services
regulations, as may be amended.
      (d)   Public, educational, and religious uses provided that:
         1.   The building setback shall be 50 feet from any side lot line.
         2.   Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and landscaping
is provided in compliance with §
1007.049.
         3.   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site or
on lots directly abutting or directly across a public street or alley to the
principal use in compliance with §
1007.052 and
that such parking is adequately screened and landscaped from surrounding and
abutting residential uses in compliance with §
1007.049.
      (e)   Sacred communities and micro-unit dwellings accessory to religious
uses in compliance with M.S. § 327.30.
   (12)   Uses by administrative permit. The following uses require an
administrative permit in compliance with §
1007.019:
      (a)   Personal wireless service antennas as secondary uses in compliance
with §
1007.062.
      (b)   Home Occupation Level B in compliance with §
1007.056.
      (c)   Essential services.
      (d)   Open air market accessory to an institutional use and limited in
area to 25% of the gross floor area of the principal building.
      (e)   Temporary structures in compliance with §
1007.071.
      (f)   Transient merchants.
   (13)   Interim uses. The following uses require an interim use permit in
compliance with §
1007.017:
      (a)   Earth moving and land reclamation in compliance with §
1007.059.
(Am. Ord. 04-24, passed 5-28-2024)
§ 1007.115 R-5, HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL AND BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to provide a setting for
multiple-family housing and commercial in areas that have good thoroughfare
access. Land to be zoned R-5 shall be served with public sanitary sewer and
water and shall be in a Planned Residential/Commercial land use category
according to the comprehensive plan. The development density shall be
consistent with the land use category.
   (2)   Lot and setback requirements.
      (a)   Minimum lot size. Lot size shall consist of contiguous buildable
land as defined by §
1007.001(2).
         1.   Base lots.
            a.   Townhomes. 14,000 square feet.
            b.   Multiple-family dwellings. 20,000 square feet.
            c.   Commercial. 20,000 square feet.
      (b)   Minimum lot width.   
         1.   Base lots for all buildings. 100 feet.
      (c)   Minimum lot depth. There is no minimum lot depth in the R-5 zoning
district.
      (d)   Setbacks for all buildings.
         1.   From street right-of-way.
            a.   Local or minor collector street. 30 feet.
            b.   Major collector or arterial street. 40 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 15 feet.
         2.   Rear lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 30 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 10 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 10 feet
         3.   Side lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 20 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 10 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 10 feet
         4.   Zero lot line. Side yard setback requirements shall not be
applied to a common wall of multi-family dwelling units.
         5.   From low density residential district. The principal buildings
setback shall be 35 feet from any land guided for low density residential.
      (e)   Buffer. Where a side or rear lot line abuts land guided for low
density residential, a collector street, or an arterial street, a 20-foot wide
buffer shall be provided in compliance with §
1007.049.
   (3)   Maximum impervious surface coverage. 75% of the lot area.
   (4)   Floor area. The minimum livable floor area for each multiple-family
dwelling unit shall be 700 square feet plus 100 additional square feet for each
bedroom.
   (5)   Utility area. Dwellings with dedicated individual access shall be
required to provide an additional 100 square feet of floor area to house
utilities, unless a basement is present. Dwellings with shared access shall be
required to provide adequate floor area within the building to house utilities.
   (6)   All dwellings shall provide parking in compliance with §
1007.052(11).
   (7)   All dwellings shall comply with the design and construction standards
of §
1007.043(2).
   (8)   Maximum building height. The greater of three stories or 40 feet,
except as allowed by §
1007.043(3).
   (9)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the R-5 District:
      (a)   Day care facilities serving 14 or fewer persons.
      (b)   Multiple-family dwellings.
      (c)   Public parks.
      (d)   State licensed residential care facility serving 16 or fewer
persons.
      (e)   Townhouse dwellings.
      (f)   Two family dwellings.
      (g)   Community gardens operated by the city.
   (10)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the R-
4 District:
      (a)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses in compliance with §
1007.044.
      (b)   Fences per §
1007.050.
      (c)   Home Occupation Level A in compliance with
1007.056.
      (d)   Model homes with temporary real estate offices in compliance with §
1007.070.
      (e)   Off-street parking in compliance with §
1007.052.
      (f)   Parking and carports for licensed and operable passenger motor
vehicles.
      (g)   Radio and television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs
three meters or less in diameter, short-wave radio dispatching antennas, or
those necessary for the operation of electronic equipment including radio
receivers, ham radio transmitters and television receivers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (h)   Signs in compliance with City Code
Chapter 1010.
      (i)   Swimming pools, sport courts, and other recreational facilities
which are operated for the use of the residents of the principal use and their
guests in compliance with City Code Section 1007.044. This does not include
racing/riding courses for off-road vehicles.
   (11)   Conditional uses. The following uses require a conditional use permit
in compliance with §
1007.016:
      (a)   All permitted and conditional uses listed in §
1007.131.
      (b)   Assisted living facilities, clinics, and nursing homes provided
that:
         1.   Side yards are double the minimum requirements established for
this district and are screened in compliance with §
1007.049.
         2.   Only the rear yard shall be used for play or recreational areas.
Said area shall be fenced and controlled and screened in compliance with §
1007.049.
         3.   The site shall be served by an arterial or collector street of
sufficient capacity to accommodate traffic which will be generated.
         4.   All state statutes and regulations governing such use are
strictly adhered to and all required operating permits are secured.
         5.   Adequate off-street parking is provided in compliance with §
1007.052.
         6.   Adequate off-street loading space is provided in compliance with
§
1007.053.
      (c)   Commercial outdoor recreational areas including golf courses,
country clubs, driving ranges, swimming pools, and similar facilities provided
that:
         1.   The principal use, function, or activity is open and outdoor in
character.
         2.   Not more than 5% of the land area of the site be covered by
buildings or structures.
         3.   When abutting a residential use and a residential use district,
the property is screened and landscaped in compliance with §
1007.049.
         4.   The site shall access a collector street or arterial street.
      (d)   Day care facilities serving more than 14 persons provided that:
         1.   Day care facility shall be connected to public sewer and water.
         2.   Screening is provided in compliance with the applicable
provisions of §
1007.049.
         3.   All day care facility operations comply with the minimum
requirements of the Minnesota Department of Health and Human Services
regulations, as may be amended.
      (e)   Funeral homes and mortuaries provided that:
         1.   The site and related parking and service entrances are served by
an arterial or collector street or sufficient capacity to accommodate the
traffic which will be generated.
         2.   Adequate off-street parking is provided in compliance with City
Code Section
1007.052.
         3.   Adequate off-street loading is provided in compliance with §
1007.053.
         4.   Vehicular entrances to parking or service areas shall create a
minimum of conflict with through traffic movement.
         5.   When abutting residential zoning districts, a buffer area with
screening and landscaping in compliance with §
1007.049 shall be provided.
      (f)   Public, educational, and religious uses provided that:
         1.   The building setback shall be 50 feet from any side lot line.
         2.   Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and landscaping
is provided in compliance with §
1007.049.
         3.   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site or
on lots directly abutting or directly across a public street or alley to the
principal use in compliance with §
1007.052 and that such parking is adequately screened and landscaped from
surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with §
1007.049.
      (g)   Sacred communities and micro-unit dwellings accessory to religious
uses in compliance with M.S. § 327.30.
   (12)   Uses by administrative permit. The following uses require an
administrative permit in compliance with §
1007.019:
      (a)   Personal wireless service antennas as secondary uses in compliance
with §
1007.062.
      (b)   Home Occupation Level B in compliance with §
1007.056.
      (c)   Essential services.
      (d)   Open air market accessory to an institutional use and limited in
area to 25% of the gross floor area of the principal building.
      (e)   Temporary structures in compliance with §
1007.071.
      (f)   Transient merchants.
   (13)   Interim uses. The following uses require an interim use permit in
compliance with §
1007.017:
      (a)   Earth moving and land reclamation in compliance with §
1007.059.
(Am. Ord. 04-24, passed 5-28-2024)
§ 1007.116 R-6, MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to provide opportunities
where manufactured housing may be located on a leased or rented site in a
planned community. This district is intended to provide opportunities for
almost all types of manufactured homes including those which may not be able to
meet the design standards established in other residential districts. All
manufactured home parks are required to conform to the provisions of this
section and other appropriate sections of this chapter. Land to be zoned R-
6 and any new manufactured home park shall be served with public sanitary sewer
and water and the density of the park shall be consistent with the land use
category according to the comprehensive plan.
   (2)   Lot and setback requirements.
      (a)   Minimum park size. Five acres.
      (b)   Minimum lot or site size. 6,000 square feet per unit exclusive of
roadways, walkways or other property used for park purposes.
      (c)   Minimum lot or site width. 60 feet.
      (d)   Setbacks.
         1.   From public street right-of-way.
            a.   Local or minor collector street. 30 feet.
            b.   Major collector or arterial street. 40 feet.
         2.   Front lot line.
            a.   Private street. 20 feet.
            b.   Common park walk. 10 feet.
         3.   Rear lot line. 10 feet.
         4.   Side lot line. 10 feet. Side yard setback for interior lot lines
may be reduced to zero, if it is part of an overall park plan to maximize
private yard space for each unit. This zero side yard setback allowance will
only be permitted if the distance to the manufactured home that shares that
side lot line is at least 30 feet in distance.
         5.   There shall not be less than 20 feet of space between
manufactured homes in all directions.
         6.   From low density residential. The principal building setback
shall be 35 feet from any land guided for low density residential.
      (e)   Buffer. Where a side or rear lot line abuts land guided for low
density residential, a collector street, or an arterial street, a 20-foot-wide
buffer shall be provided in compliance with §
1007.049.
   (3)   Park requirements.
      (a)   Skirt. All manufactured homes shall have skirts around the entire
unit made of metal, plastic, fiberglass or comparable, non-combustible material
approved by the Building Official and shall be finished to be harmonious with
the manufactured home so that it will enhance the general appearance thereof.
      (b)   Parking. The parking of more than one manufactured home on any
single lot shall not be permitted.
      (c)   Fire protection. Fire protection shall be in compliance with
Minnesota Health Department Rule 187 Fire Protection Regulations. Each occupied
manufactured home shall be equipped with a Fire Marshal approved type
extinguisher in usable condition. The occupant of a manufactured home shall be
responsible for providing such extinguisher.
      (d)   Support and tie down systems. The Minnesota Department of
Administration Building Code Division Rules for Manufactured Home Support and
Tie Down Systems, authorized by M.S. § 327.31 to § 327.34, are hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein. All
new and relocated manufactured homes shall be equipped with an anchoring and
support system as defined and approved by state rules.
      (e)   Construction material storage. All construction materials not
currently in use for construction shall be stored indoors, or totally screened
from the eye level view from public streets and adjacent properties.
      (f)   Drainage. Every manufactured home park shall be located on a well-
drained area and the premises shall be properly graded so as to prevent the
accumulation of storm or other waters.
      (g)   Common walks. Where deemed necessary, common walks shall be
provided. Such walks shall be a minimum width of three feet.
      (h)   Individual walks. All manufactured homes shall be connected to
common walks, to paved streets, or to paved driveways or parking spaces
connecting to a paved street. Such individual walks shall have a minimum width
of two feet.
      (i)   Patio. A patio may be constructed on the ground beside each
manufactured home parking space; this patio shall be not greater than 150
square feet in area and constructed of concrete with a minimum thickness of
four inches or approved equal.
      (j)   Shade tree. At least one shade tree (minimum diameter two inches at
time of planting) shall be located and maintained on each site or lot.
      (k)   Landscaping. Except for the areas used for the manufactured home,
patio, walkways and off-street parking space, the entire site or lot shall be
sodded, seeded, or adequately landscaped.
      (l)   Street access. Each unit shall abut on and have access to a street.
This street shall be constructed according to standards approved by the city.
      (m)   Curbing. A concrete curb and gutter shall be constructed on each
side of the street and the face of its curb shall be at least 15 feet from the
centerline of said street; the design shall be of a type approved by the city.
      (n)   Speed limit. Speed limit signs shall be clearly posted throughout
the manufactured home park. Ten miles per hour shall be the maximum speed
posted.
      (o)   Parking.
         1.   Each manufactured home site shall have off-street parking space
paved with concrete and/or bituminous for two passenger motor vehicles.
         2.   Each manufactured home park shall maintain a hard surfaced off-
street parking lot for guests of occupants of at least one space for each five
manufactured home lots.
         3.   Access drives off roads to all parking spaces and manufactured
home lots shall be surfaced with concrete or bituminous according to
specifications established by the city.
         4.   There shall be a separate area of storage provided for boats,
boat trailers, travel trailers, etc. The area shall be located away from any
public street and shall be fenced and screened from view of public street and
adjacent properties.
      (p)   Utilities.
         1.   All manufactured homes shall be served by a central water and
sanitary sewer system.
         2.   All utilities shall be underground. There shall be no overhead
wires or supporting poles except those essential for street or other lighting
purposes.
         3.   Access in the skirting shall be provided to allow the inspection
of plumbing, electrical facilities and related manufactured home equipment.
         4.   Water facilities, sewage disposal, and street lighting shall be
installed and maintained by the owner of the manufactured home park and shall
meet all appropriate standards established by the city.
      (q)   Street lighting. The park shall have a street lighting plan
approved by the city.
      (r)   Accessory buildings. Any accessory building for outdoor storage of
equipment or refuse shall be constructed of weather resistant material and be
finished in a manner conforming with the appearance of the principal dwelling
and shall be consistent in appearance with the other accessory buildings in the
manufactured home park.
      (s)   Community building. All manufactured home parks may have a central
community building with laundry drying areas and washing machines.
      (t)   Emergency storm protections. Manufactured home parks established
prior to July 1, 1993 shall comply with emergency room protections as required
by Minnesota Statutes. A new manufactured home park established after July 1,
1993 shall have storm shelters in compliance with Minnesota Statutes.
Additionally, all emergency storm protection measures shall be subject to the
approval of the City Council.
      (u)   Recreational space. All manufactured home parks shall have at least
10% of the land area developed for recreational use (sport courts, children's
play equipment, swimming pool, golf green, etc.) developed and maintained at
the owner's expense.
      (v)   Refuse handling. The handling of refuse shall be in compliance with
the applicable provisions of §
1007.045. The refuse handling shall be allowed provided such equipment is
screened from adjacent uses, and all public and private street rights-of-way.
   (4)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the R-6 District:
      (a)   Community/recreation buildings.
      (b)   Manufactured homes.
      (c)   Personal wireless service antennas as secondary uses in compliance
with §
1007.062.
      (d)   Community gardens operated by the city.
      (e)   Day care facilities serving 14 or fewer persons.
      (f)   State licensed residential care facility serving six or fewer
persons.
   (5)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the R-
6 District:
      (a)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses in compliance with §
1007.044.
      (b)   Carports in compliance with §
1007.044(3).
      (c)   Civil defense buildings/storm shelters.
      (d)   Community laundry facilities, park office, recreational building(s)
provided such structures are of a permanent nature and comply with the
requirements of the State Building Code.
      (e)   Fences per §
1007.050.
      (f)   Model homes/temporary real estate offices in compliance with §
1007.070.
      (g)   Off-street parking in compliance with §
1007.052.
      (h)   Radio and television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs
three meters or less in diameter, short-wave radio dispatching antennas, or
those necessary for the operation of electronic equipment including radio
receivers, ham radio transmitters and television receivers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (i)   Signs in compliance with City Code
Chapter 1010.
      (j)   Swimming pools, sport courts, and other recreational facilities
which are operated for the use of the residents of the principal use and their
guests in compliance with §
1007.044. This does not include racing/riding courses for off-road vehicles.
   (6)   Conditional uses. The following uses require a conditional use permit
in compliance with §
1007.016:
      (a)   None.
   (7)   Uses by administrative permit. The following uses require an
administrative permit in compliance with §
1007.019:
      (a)   Personal wireless service antennas as secondary uses in compliance
with §
1007.062.
      (b)   Temporary structures in compliance with §
1007.071.
      (c)   Transient merchants.
   (8)   Interim uses. The following uses require an interim use permit in
compliance with §
1007.017:
      (a) Earth moving and land reclamation in compliance with §
1007.059.
   (9)   Review and approval procedures. No person shall establish, develop,
extend or enlarge a manufactured home park within the City of Lino Lakes
without first obtaining approval from the City Council with review by the
Planning and Zoning Board. Approval shall be granted only upon compliance with
all of the following:
      (a)   Planning and Zoning Board review. The Planning and Zoning Board
shall review all applications for manufactured home parks and shall hold public
hearings as deemed necessary or proper. The findings and recommendations of the
Planning and Zoning Board shall be forwarded to the City Council for action.
      (b)   Approval or denial. The City Council shall consider and act on the
application. Approval shall be granted only upon compliance with all of the
procedures and requirements established in this chapter.
      (c)   Submission requirements. Submission for manufactured home park
approval shall include the following:
         1.   All submittal requirements for a zoning amendment and/or
conditional use permit, as appropriate, required by §
1007.015 through §
1007.024 as amended. If the site is to be subdivided, the submittal also must
comply with the requirements of City Code
Chapter 1001.
         2.   Proof of agency review. The applicant shall provide proof that
the plans submitted have been approved by the State of Minnesota Department of
Health, and have satisfied all other federal, state, county, city, and
watershed district laws and regulations.
      (d)   Access. It shall be the duty of the park owner to give the Building
Official free access to all lots at reasonable times for the purposes of
inspection.
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
§ 1007.130 NB, NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 02-25, adopted 3-10-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the NB, Neighborhood Business District is to
provide for the establishment of local businesses for convenience, limited
office, retail or service outlets which deal directly with the daily
requirements of the immediate neighborhood and which are located along a
collector or arterial roadway. These businesses are not intended to draw
customers from the entire community. Land to be zoned NB shall be served with
public sanitary sewer and water and shall be in a commercial land use category
according to the comprehensive plan.
   (2)   Lot and setback requirements.
      (a)   Minimum lot size.
         1.   Sewered lot. 11,250 square feet.
         2.   Unsewered lot. 10 acres, in compliance with applicable provisions
of §
1007.042(2)(b).
      (b)   Minimum lot width.
         1.   Sewered lot-interior. 75 feet.
         2.   Sewered lot-corner. 100 feet.
         3.   Unsewered lot. 150 feet.
      (c)   Setbacks.
         1.   From street right-of-way.
            a.   Local or minor collector street. 30 feet.
            b.   Major collector or arterial street. 40 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 15 feet.
         2.   Rear lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 30 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 10 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 10 feet.
         3.   Side lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 30 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 10 feet.
            c.   Parking lot: 10 feet.
         4.   From property guided by the comprehensive plan for residential
use. 35 feet.
         5.   Between principal buildings. Not less than one-half the sum of
the building heights of the two buildings.
   (3)   Maximum building height. 36 feet except as allowed by §
1007.043(3).
   (4)   Maximum impervious surface coverage. 65% of the lot area.
   (5)   Building requirements. All newly constructed commercial buildings
shall meet the exterior building standards of §
1007.043(2)(d).
   (6)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the NB District:
      (a)   Adult use - accessory.
      (b)   Office business - clinic.
      (c)   Office business - general.
      (d)   Personal services (subject to any licensing requirements of city
code, county, or state).
      (e)   Recreational business contained entirely within the principal
building.
      (f)   Restaurants.
      (g)   Retail business.
      (h)   Service business - on-site.
      (i)   Liquor sales: on-sale.
      (j)   Community gardens operated by the city.
   (7)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the NB
District:
      (a)   Accessory buildings and structures in compliance with §
1007.044(11).
      (b)   Fences in compliance with §
1007.050.
      (c)   Off-street loading in compliance with §
1007.053.
      (d)   Off-street parking in compliance with §
1007.052.
      (e)   Outside services, sales, and equipment rental accessory to the
principal use and limited in area to 25% of the gross floor area of the
principal building.
      (f)   Radio and television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs
three meters or less in diameter, short-wave dispatching antennas, or those
necessary for the operation of electronic equipment including radio receivers,
ham radio transmitters and television receivers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (g)   Signs in compliance with City Code
Chapter 1010.
      (h)   Home Occupation Level A in compliance with §
1007.056.
   (8)   Conditional uses. The following uses require a conditional use permit
in compliance with §
1007.016:
      (a)   Commercial day care facilities provided that:
         1.   All requirements of the Minnesota Department of Health and Human
Services, as may be amended, are satisfactorily met and the structure and
operation are licensed accordingly.
         2.   Screening is provided in compliance with §
1007.049.
         3.   Adequate off-street parking is provided in a location separated
from any outdoor play area(s).
      (b)   Specialty schools such as music, dance, or business schools
provided that:
         1.   Provisions are made to buffer and screen any adjoining
residential uses.
         2.   The site is served by an arterial or collector street of
sufficient capacity to accommodate traffic which will be generated.
      (c)   Veterinary hospitals provided that:
         1.   All areas in which animals are confined are located indoors and
are properly soundproofed from adjacent properties.
         2.   Animal carcasses are properly disposed of in a manner not
utilizing on-site garbage facilities or incineration and the carcasses are
properly refrigerated during periods prior to disposal.
         3.   An indoor animal kennel is permitted as a use accessory to the
veterinary hospital provided that:
            a.   The number of animals boarded shall not exceed 20.
            b.   An indoor exercise area shall be provided to accommodate the
periodic exercising of animals boarded at the kennel. No outdoor exercising of
animals shall be permitted.
            c.   A ventilation system shall be designed so that no odors or
organisms will spread between wards or to the outside air and will be capable
of completely exchanging internal air at a rate of at least twice per hour. Air
temperature must be maintained between 60ºF. and 75ºF.
            d.   A room separate from the kennel area shall be provided of
sufficient size to adequately separate animals that are sick or injured from
healthy animals.
            e.   Indoor animal kennel floors and walls shall be made of non-
porous materials or sealed concrete to make it non-porous.
            f.   Animal wastes shall be flushed down an existing sanitary sewer
system or enclosed in a container of sufficient construction to eliminate odors
and organisms and shall be properly disposed of at least once a day.
         4.   The appropriate license is obtained from the city and the
conditions of City Code
Chapter 503 relating to the keeping of animals are satisfactorily met.
         5.   All State Health Department and Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency requirements for such facilities are met.
   (9)   Uses by administrative permit. The following uses require an
administrative permit in compliance with §
1007.019:
      (a)   Personal wireless service antennas as secondary uses in compliance
with §
1007.062.
      (b)   Home Occupation Level B in compliance with §
1007.056.
      (c)   Essential services.
      (d)   Accessory outdoor dining areas intended for consumption of food or
beverages purchased on site in compliance with §
1007.063. This administrative permit may be incorporated into another approval
such as but not limited to a site plan, planned unit development, or building
permit.
      (e)   Temporary structures in compliance with §
1007.071.
      (f)   Transient merchants.
   (10)   Interim uses. The following uses require an interim use permit in
compliance with §
1007.017:
      (a)   Earth moving and land reclamation in compliance with §
1007.059.
(Am. Ord. 13-23, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 1007.131 LB, LIMITED BUSINESS DISTRICT.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 02-25, adopted 3-10-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the LB, Limited Business District is to
provide for the establishment of commercial uses of a limited (less intense)
nature. This may be due to the close proximity of residential uses. This may
include high quality commercial areas such as an office park development. Also,
the LB District can be used as a transitional district or buffer between non-
compatible uses such as intense commercial (GB) and residential uses. Land to
be zoned LB shall be served with public sanitary sewer and water and shall be
in a Commercial land use category according to the comprehensive plan.
   (2)   Lot and setback requirements.
      (a)   Minimum lot size.
         1.   Sewered lots. 15,000 square feet.
         2.   Unsewered lots. 10 acres in compliance with applicable provisions
of §
1007.042(2)(b).
      (b)   Minimum lot width.
         1.   Sewered lots. 100 feet.
         2.   Unsewered lots. 150 feet.
      (c)   Setbacks.
         1.   From street rights-of-way.
            a.   Local or minor collector street. 30 feet.
            b.   Major collector or arterial street. 40 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 15 feet.
         2.   Rear lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 30 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 10 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 10 feet.
         3.   Side lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 10 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 10 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 10 feet.
         4.   From property guided by the comprehensive plan for residential
use. 35 feet.
         5.   Between principal buildings. Not less than one-half the sum of
the building heights of the two buildings.
   (3)   Maximum building height. 36 feet except as allowed by §
1007.043(3).
   (4)   Maximum impervious surface coverage. 65% of the lot area.
   (5)   Building requirements. All newly constructed buildings shall meet the
exterior building standards of §
1007.043(2)(d).
   (6)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the LB District:
      (a)   Adult use - accessory.
      (b)   Liquor sales - on and off sale.
      (c)   Office business - clinic.
      (d)   Office business - general.
      (e)   Personal services (subject to any licensing requirements of city
code, county, or state).
      (f)   Recreational business contained entirely within the principal
building.
      (g)   Residential extended care facilities such as nursing homes.
      (h)   Restaurants.
      (i)   Retail business.
      (j)   Service business - off-site.
      (k)   Service business - on-site.
      (l)   Community gardens operated by the city.
   (7)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the LB
District:
      (a)   Accessory buildings and structures in compliance with §
1007.044(11).
      (b)   Fences in compliance with §
1007.050.
      (c)   Off-street loading in compliance with §
1007.053.
      (d)   Off-street parking in compliance with §
1007.052.
      (e)   Outside services, sales, and equipment rental accessory to the
principal use and limited in area to 25% of the gross floor area of the
principal building.
      (f)   Radio and television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs
three meters or less in diameter, short-wave dispatching antennas, or those
necessary for the operation of electronic equipment including radio receivers,
ham radio transmitters, and television receivers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (g)   Signs in compliance with City Code
Chapter 1010.
      (h)   Home Occupation Level A in compliance with §
1007.056.
   (8)   Conditional uses. The following uses require a conditional use permit
in compliance with §
1007.016:
      (a)   Accessory drive-through facilities provided that:
         1.   At least 120 feet of segregated passenger motor vehicle stacking
must be provided for the single service lane. Where multiple service lanes are
provided, the minimum passenger motor vehicle stacking may be reduced to 60
feet per lane.
         2.   The stacking lane and its access must be designed to control
traffic in a manner to protect the buildings and will not interfere with on-
site traffic circulation or access to the required parking space.
         3.   No part of the public street or boulevard may be used for
stacking of passenger motor vehicles or motorcycles.
         4.   The stacking lane, order board intercom, and window placement
shall be designed and located in such a manner as to minimize glare to adjacent
premises, particularly residential premises, and to maximize maneuverability of
vehicles on the site.
         5.   The drive-through window and its stacking lanes shall be screened
from view of adjoining residential zoning districts and public street rights-
of-way.
         6.   A lighting and photometric plan will be required that illustrates
the drive-through service lane lighting and shall comply with §
1007.046.
      (b)   Commercial day care facilities provided that:
         1.   All requirements of the Minnesota Department of Health and Human
Services, as may be amended, are satisfactorily met and the structure and
operation is licensed accordingly.
         2.   Screening is provided in compliance with §
1007.049.
         3.   Adequate off-street parking is provided in a location separated
from any outdoor play area(s).
         4.   Adequate off-street loading spaces in compliance with §
1007.053.
      (c)   Motor fuel stations provided that:
         1.   All conditions in §
1007.072 are met.
      (d)   Private lodges and clubs provided that:
         1.   Screening and landscaping from land guided residential per the
comprehensive plan is provided in compliance with requirements for business or
industrial uses in §
1007.049.
         2.   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site or
on lots directly abutting directly across a public street or alley to the
principal use in compliance with §
1007.052.
         3.   Parking is screened and landscaped in compliance with §
1007.049.
      (e)   Public, educational, and religious buildings provided that:
         1.   Screening from residential uses and landscaping is provided in
compliance with §
1007.049.
         2.   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site or
on lots directly abutting directly across a public street or alley to the
principal use in compliance with §
1007.052.
         3.   Parking is screened and landscaped in compliance with
requirements for business or industrial uses in §
1007.049.
         4.   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are provided
and regulated where applicable by §
1007.053.
      (f)   Specialty schools such as music, dance or business schools provided
that:
         1.   Provisions are made to buffer and screen any adjoining
residential uses.
         2.   The site is served by an arterial or collector street of
sufficient capacity to accommodate traffic which will be generated.
      (g)   Residential apartments accessory to permitted or conditional uses
in the LB District provided that:
         1.   The apartment is located in the same building as the principal
use.
         2.   Residential and non-residential use are not contained on the same
floor.
         3.   The residential and non-residential uses do not conflict in any
manner.
      (h)   Veterinary hospitals provided that:
         1.   All areas in which animals are confined are located indoors and
are properly soundproofed from adjacent properties.
         2.   Animal carcasses are properly disposed of in a manner not
utilizing on-site garbage facilities or incineration and the carcasses are
properly refrigerated during periods prior to disposal.
         3.   An indoor animal kennel is permitted as a use accessory to the
veterinary hospital provided that:
            a.   The number of animals boarded shall not exceed 20.
            b.   An indoor exercise area shall be provided to accommodate the
periodic exercising of animals boarded at the kennel. No outdoor exercising of
animals shall be permitted.
            c.   A ventilation system shall be designed so that no odors or
organisms will spread between wards or to the outside air and will be capable
of completely exchanging internal air at a rate of at least twice per hour. Air
temperature must be maintained between 60ºF. and 75ºF.
            d.   A room separate from the kennel area shall be provided of
sufficient size to adequately separate animals that are sick or injured from
healthy animals.
            e.   Indoor animal kennel floors and walls shall be made of non-
porous materials or sealed concrete to make it non-porous.
            f.   Animal wastes shall be flushed down an existing sanitary sewer
system or enclosed in a container of sufficient construction to eliminate odors
and organisms and shall be properly disposed of at least once a day.
         4.   The appropriate license is obtained from the city and the
conditions of City Code
Chapter 503 relating to the keeping of animals are met.
         5.   All State Health Department and Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency requirements for such facilities are met.
      (i)   Sacred communities and micro-unit dwellings accessory to religious
uses in compliance with M.S. § 327.30.
   (9)   Uses by administrative permit. The following uses require an
administrative permit in compliance with §
1007.019:
      (a)   Personal wireless service antennas as secondary uses in compliance
with §
1007.062.
      (b)   Home Occupation Level B in compliance with §
1007.056.
      (c)   Essential services.
      (d)   Accessory outdoor dining areas intended for consumption of food or
beverages purchased on site in compliance with §
1007.063. This administrative permit may be incorporated into another approval
such as but not limited to a site plan, planned unit development, or building
permit.
      (e)   Temporary structures in compliance with §
1007.071.
      (f)   Transient merchants.
   (10)   Interim uses. The following uses require an interim use permit in
compliance with §
1007.017:
      (a)   Earth moving and land reclamation in compliance with §
1007.059.
(Am. Ord. 13-23, passed 9-11-2023; Am. Ord. 04-24, passed 5-28-2024)
§ 1007.132 GB, GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 02-25, adopted 3-10-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the GB, General Business District is to
provide for the establishment of a wide variety of business uses including
retail, service, and semi-industrial uses. The district may contain businesses
which tend to serve other business and industry as well as those catering to
shoppers' needs. Land to be zoned GB shall be served with public sanitary sewer
and water and shall be in a commercial land use category according to the
comprehensive plan.
   (2)   Lot and yard requirements.
      (a)   Minimum lot size.
         1.   Sewered lot. 20,000 square feet.
         2.   Unsewered lot. 10 acres in compliance with applicable provisions
of §
1007.042(2)(b).
      (b)   Minimum lot width. 100 feet.
      (c)   Setbacks.
         1.   From street right-of-way.
            a.   Local or minor collector street. 30 feet.
            b.   Major collector or arterial street. 40 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 15 feet.
         2.   Rear lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 30 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 5 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 10 feet.
         3.   Side lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 10 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 10 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 10 feet.
         4.   From property guided by the comprehensive plan for residential
use. 35 feet.
         5.   Between principal buildings. Not less than one-half the sum of
the building heights of the two buildings.
   (3)   Maximum building height. 45 feet except as allowed by §
1007.043(3).
   (4)   Maximum impervious surface coverage. 75% of the lot area.
   (5)   Building requirements. All newly constructed buildings shall meet the
exterior building standards of §
1007.043(2)(d).
   (6)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the GB District:
      (a)   Adult use - principal and accessory.
      (b)   Commercial greenhouses and nurseries.
      (c)   Hospitality business.
      (d)   Liquor sales, on and off sale.
      (e)   Office business - clinical.
      (f)   Office business - general.
      (g)   Personal services (subject to any licensing requirements of city
code, county or state).
      (h)   Recreational business contained entirely within the principal
building.
      (i)   Restaurants and brew pubs.
      (j)   Microdistilleries.
      (k)   Small brewer.
      (l)   Winery.
      (m)   Retail business.
      (n)   Service business - off-site.
      (o)   Service business - on-site.
      (p)   Specialty schools such as music, dance, gymnastics, or business/
trade schools.
      (q)   Theaters.
      (r)   Community gardens operated by the city.
   (7)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the GB
District:
      (a)   Accessory buildings and structures in compliance with §
1007.044(10).
      (b)   Brewer taproom accessory to a small brewer.
      (c)   Drive-through service facilities:
         1.   At least 120 feet of segregated passenger motor vehicle stacking
must be provided for the single service lane. Where multiple service lanes are
provided, the minimum passenger motor vehicle stacking may be reduced to 60
feet per lane.
         2.   The stacking lane and its access must be designed to control
traffic in a manner to protect the buildings and will not interfere with on-
site traffic circulation or access to the required parking space.
         3.   No part of the public street or boulevard may be used for
stacking of passenger motor vehicles or motorcycles.
         4.   The stacking lane, order board intercom, and window placement
shall be designed and located in such a manner as to minimize glare to adjacent
premises, particularly residential premises, and to maximize maneuverability of
vehicles on the site.
         5.   The drive-through window and its stacking lanes shall be screened
from view of adjoining residential zoning districts and public street rights-
of-way.
         6.   A lighting and photometric plan will be required that illustrates
the drive-through service lane lighting and shall comply with §
1007.046.
      (d)   Fences in compliance with §
1007.050.
      (e)   Off-street loading in compliance with §
1007.053.
      (f)   Off-street parking in compliance with §
1007.052.
      (g)   Outside services, sales, and equipment rental accessory to the
principal use and limited in area to 25% of the gross floor area of the
principal building.
      (h)   Radio and television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs
three meters or less in diameter, short-wave dispatching antennas, or those
necessary for the operation of electronic equipment including radio receivers,
ham radio transmitters and television receivers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (i)   Signs in compliance with City Code
Chapter 1010.
      (j)   Tasting room accessory to a distillery.
      (k)   Tasting room accessory to a winery.
      (l)   Home Occupation Level A in compliance with §
1007.056.
   (8)   Conditional uses. The following uses require a conditional use permit
in compliance with §
1007.016:
      (a)   Automobile repair-major and minor provided that:
         1.   The architectural appearance and functional plan of the building
and site shall not be so dissimilar to the existing buildings or area as to
cause impairment in property values or constitute a blighting influence.
         2.   All repair work shall be conducted within the principal building.
         3.   All painting must be conducted in an approved paint booth. All
paint booths and all other activities of the operation shall thoroughly control
the emission of fumes, dust, or other particulate matter so that the use shall
be in compliance with the State of Minnesota Pollution Control Standards,
Minnesota Regulation APC 1-15, as amended.
         4.   The emission of odor by a use shall be in compliance with and
regulated by the State of Minnesota Pollution Control Standards, Minnesota
regulations APC, as amended.
         5.   All flammable materials, including liquids and rags, shall
conform with the applicable provisions of the Minnesota Uniform Fire Code.
         6.   All outdoor storage shall be prohibited except the storage of
customer vehicles waiting for repair.
      (b)   Commercial car washes (drive-through, mechanical, and self-service)
provided that:
         1.   The site is serviced by municipal sanitary sewer.
         2.   The architectural appearance and functional plan of the building
and site shall not be so dissimilar to the existing buildings or areas as to
cause impairment in property values or constitute a blighting influence.
         3.   Stacking space is provided in compliance with §
1007.0552(6).
         4.   At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of at least
five feet shall be landscaped and screened in compliance with §
1007.049.
         5.   Parking or car magazine storage space shall be screened from view
of abutting residential districts in compliance with §
1007.049.
         6.   The entire area other than occupied by the building or plantings
shall be surfaced with material which will control dust and drainage which is
subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
         7.   The entire area shall have a drainage system which is subject to
the approval of the city.
         8.   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light
source is not visible from the public right-of-way or from an abutting
residence and shall be in compliance with §
1007.046.
         9.   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create a minimum
of conflict with through traffic movement and shall be subject to the approval
of the City Engineer.
         10.   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise.
      (c)   Commercial day care facilities provided that:
         1.   All requirements of the Minnesota Department of Health and Human
Services, as may be amended, are satisfactorily met and the structure and
operation are licensed accordingly.
         2.   Screening is provided in compliance with §
1007.049.
         3.   Adequate off-street parking is provided in a location separated
from any outdoor play area(s).
         4.   Adequate off-street loading spaces in compliance with §
1007.053.
      (d)   Contractor shops and offices provided that:
         1.   All outdoor storage is prohibited. The storage of contractor
equipment and materials must be completely inside.
         2.   When abutting a residential land use, a buffer area with
screening and landscaping in compliance with §
1007.049 is provided.
      (e)   Hospitals provided that:
         1.   Side yards are double the minimum requirements established for
this district and are screened in compliance with §
1007.049.
         2.   The site shall be served by an arterial or collector street of
sufficient capacity to accommodate traffic which will be generated.
         3.   All state statutes and regulations governing such use are
strictly adhered to and all required operating permits are secured.
         4.   Adequate off-street loading space is provided in compliance with
§
1007.053.
      (f)   Motor fuel stations provided that:
         1.   All conditions in §
1007.072 are met.
      (g)   Outdoor recreation facilities provided that:
         1.   The facilities are an accessory use to a principal use allowed
within the GB District.
         2.   The facilities meet the principal building setbacks.
         3.   The facilities shall maintain a 50 foot setback from residential
districts.
         4.   The facilities shall be screened from adjoining properties or
public rights-of-way.
         5.   The city may set limits on the hours of operation to avoid
nuisance issues.
      (h)   Motor vehicle sales lot provided that:
         1.   Outside sales areas are fenced or screened from view of
neighboring residential uses or an abutting residential district in compliance
with §
1007.049.
         2.   Outside services and sales are associated with a principal
building of at least 1,000 square feet of floor area.
         3.   The entire sales lot and off-street parking area is paved.
         4.   Parking for customers and employees must be provided in
compliance with §
1007.052(6).
         5.   For passenger motor vehicle sales activities, a minimum of 380
square feet of sales area per vehicle is provided exclusive of required parking
areas. Minimum sales area for all other motor vehicles will be determined by
the City Council during the review of the conditional use permit.
         6.   A perimeter curb is provided around the sales/parking lot.
         7.   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light
source is not visible from the public right-of-way or from an abutting
residence and shall be in compliance with §
1007.046.
         8.   Vehicles for sale shall be displayed in an orderly manner.
      (i)   Private lodges and clubs provided that:
         1.   Screening from residential uses and landscaping is provided in
compliance with §
1007.049.
         2.   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site or
on lots directly abutting directly across a public street or alley to the
principal use in compliance with §
1007.052.
         3.   Parking is screened and landscaped in compliance with §
1007.049.
         4.   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are provided
and regulated where applicable by §
1007.053.
      (j)   Public, educational, and religious buildings provided that:
         1.   Screening from residential uses and landscaping is provided in
compliance with requirements for business or industrial uses in §
1007.049.
         2.   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site or
on lots directly abutting directly across a public street or alley to the
principal use in compliance with §
1007.052.
         3.   Parking is screened and landscaped in compliance with
requirements for business or industrial uses in §
1007.049.
         4.   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are provided
and regulated where applicable by §
1007.053.
      (k)   Small engine and boat repair provided that:
         1.   The lighting shall be accomplished in such a way as to have no
direct source of light visible from adjacent land in residential use or from
the public right-of-way and shall be in compliance with §
1007.046.
         2.   At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of at least
five feet shall be landscaped and screened in compliance with §
1007.049.
         3.   Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict with
through traffic movement and shall comply with §
1007.052 and shall be subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
         4.   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise.
         5.   No outdoor storage, repair or sales except in compliance with §
1007.112(7)(f) or §
1007.112(8)(h) shall be allowed.
         6.   All conditions pertaining to a specific site are subject to
change when the Council, upon investigation in relation to a formal request,
finds that the general welfare and public betterment can be served as well or
better by modifying the conditions.
      (l)   Veterinary hospitals provided that:
         1.   All areas in which animals are confined are located indoors and
are properly soundproofed from adjacent properties.
         2.   Animal carcasses are properly disposed of in a manner not
utilizing on-site garbage facilities or incineration and the carcasses are
properly refrigerated during periods prior to disposal.
         3.   An indoor animal kennel is permitted as a use accessory to the
veterinary hospital provided that:
            a.   The number of animals boarded shall not exceed 20.
            b.   An indoor exercise area shall be provided to accommodate the
periodic exercising of animals boarded at the kennel. No outdoor exercising of
animals shall be permitted.
            c.   A ventilation system shall be designed so that no odors or
organisms will spread between wards or to the outside air and will be capable
of completely exchanging internal air at a rate of at least twice per hour. Air
temperature must be maintained between 60ºF. and 75ºF.
            d.   A room separate from the kennel area shall be provided of
sufficient size to adequately separate animals that are sick or injured from
healthy animals.
            e.   Indoor animal kennel floors and walls shall be made of non-
porous materials or sealed concrete to make it non-porous.
            f.   Animal wastes shall be flushed down an existing sanitary sewer
system or enclosed in a container of sufficient construction to eliminate odors
and organisms and shall be properly disposed of at least once a day.
         4.   The appropriate license is obtained from the city and the
conditions of City Code
Chapter 503 relating to the keeping of animals are met.
         5.   All State Health Department and Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency requirements for such facilities are met.
      (m)   Two or more buildings on same lot provided such buildings relate to
a permitted or conditional use that is operated as a single business or
enterprise.
      (n)   Sacred communities and micro-unit dwellings accessory to religious
uses in compliance with M.S. § 327.30.
   (9)   Uses by administrative permit. The following uses require an
administrative permit in compliance with §
1007.019:
      (a)   Personal wireless service antennas as secondary uses in compliance
with §
1007.062.
      (b)   Home Occupation Level B in compliance with §
1007.056.
      (c)   Essential services.
      (d)   Accessory outdoor dining areas intended for consumption of food or
beverages purchased on site in compliance with §
1007.063. This administrative permit may be incorporated into another approval
such as but not limited to a site plan, planned unit development, or building
permit.
      (e)   Open air markets.
      (f)   Temporary structures in compliance with §
1007.071.
      (g)   Transient merchants.
   (10)   Interim uses. The following uses require an interim use permit in
compliance with §
1007.017:
      (a)   Earth moving and land reclamation in compliance with §
1007.059.
(Am. Ord. 13-23, passed 9-11-2023; Am. Ord. 04-24, passed 5-28-2024)
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
§ 1007.140 LI, LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 02-25, adopted 3-10-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the LI, Light Industrial district is to
provide for the establishment of light industrial, high-tech business and
professional services. These areas have the prerequisites for industrial
development, but because of proximity to residential areas, the visibility from
the Interstate, and the need to protect certain areas or uses from adverse
influences, high development standards will be necessary. LI uses include
service industries and industries which manufacture, fabricate, assemble or
store, where the process is not likely to create offensive noise, vibrations,
dust, heat, smoke, odor, glare, or other objectionable influences. Generally,
these include wholesale, service and light industries which are dependent upon
raw materials refined elsewhere. Land to be zoned LI shall be served with
public sanitary sewer and water and shall be in an Industrial land use category
according to the comprehensive plan.
   (2)   Lot and setback requirements.
      (a)   Minimum lot size.
         1.   Sewered lot. One acre.
         2.   Unsewered lot. 10 acres in compliance with applicable provisions
of §
1007.042(2)(b).
      (b)   Minimum lot width. 100 feet.
      (c)   Setbacks.
         1.   From street right-of-way.
            a.   Local or minor collector street. 30 feet.
            b.   Major collector or arterial street. 50 feet.
            c.   I-35W or I-35E. 15 feet.
            d.   Parking lot. 15 feet.
         2.   Rear lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 15 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 10 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 5 feet.
         3.   Side lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 10 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 10 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 5 feet.
         4.   From property guided by the comprehensive plan for residential
use. 75 feet.
   (3)   Buffer. Where a side or rear lot line in an LI District abuts property
guided by the comprehensive plan for residential or commercial development, a
landscape buffer area shall be provided along such side or rear lot line not
less than 40 feet wide and shall contain landscaping, planting, berming, or
other effective screening suitable to provide an effective screen in compliance
with §
1007.049(6).
   (4)   Maximum building height. 45 feet except as allowed by §
1007.043(3).
   (5)   Maximum impervious surface coverage. 75% of the lot area.
   (6)   Building requirements. All newly constructed industrial buildings
shall meet the exterior building standards of §
1007.043(2)(d).
   (7)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the LI District:
      (a)   Beverage production and bottling, including public tours of the
facilities and gift shops containing merchandise directly related to the
facility.
      (b)   Building material sales.
      (c)   Carpet and rug cleaning.
      (d)   Community gardens operated by the city.
      (e)   Construction-related businesses, including contractor storage of
equipment and building materials if enclosed within a building, but not storage
yards.
      (f)   Data centers.
      (g)   Feed and seed sales.
      (h)   Greenhouses, nurseries.
      (i)   Indoor self-storage.
      (j)   Laundry, dry cleaning, or dying plant.
      (k)   Manufacturing or assembly of a wide variety of products that
produces no exterior noise, glare, fumes, noxious products, by-products, or
wastes, or creates other objectionable impact on the environment, including the
generation of large volumes of traffic.
      (l)   Mass transit terminals.
      (m)   Office business-clinic and general.
      (n)   Radio and television stations.
      (o)   Recreational business contained entirely within the principal
building.
      (p)   Research laboratories
      (q)   Trade or business schools.
      (r)   Warehousing and distribution facilities, but not including trucking
terminal or mini self-storage facilities per § 1007.001(2).
      (s)   Wholesale businesses/showrooms.
   (8)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the LI
District:
      (a)   Accessory buildings and structures in compliance with §
1007.044(11).
      (b)   Accessory indoor retail, rental, or service activities other than
that allowed as a permitted or conditional use within the Light Industrial
zoning district, provided such use is related and accessory to a principal use
allowed within the Light Industrial zoning district.
      (c)   Fences in compliance with §
1007.050.
      (d)   Off-street loading in compliance with §
1007.053.
      (e)   Off-street parking in compliance with §
1007.052.
      (f)   Radio and television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs
three meters or less in diameter, short-wave dispatching antennas, or those
necessary for the operation of electronic equipment including radio receivers,
ham radio transmitters and television receivers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (g)   Signs in compliance with City Code
Chapter 1010.
      (h)   Brewer taprooms accessory to a malt liquor beverage production and
bottling facility.
      (i)   Tasting room accessory to a distilled spirits beverage production
and bottling facility.
      (j)   Tasting room accessory to a wine beverage production and bottling
facility.
      (k)   Liquor sales, on sale through brewer taprooms and off sale pursuant
to M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 10, all accessory to a malt liquor beverage
production and bottling facility.
   (9)   Conditional uses. The following uses require a conditional use permit
in compliance with §
1007.016:
      (a)   Automobile repair-major and minor provided that:
         1.   All painting must be conducted in an approved paint booth per §
1007.047(2).
         2.   All flammable materials, including liquids and rags, shall
conform with the applicable provisions of the Minnesota Uniform Fire Code.
         3.   All outdoor storage shall be prohibited except the storage of
customer vehicles waiting for repair.
      (b)   Bus garage provided that:
         1.   When abutting a residential use or residential district, the
property shall be screened and landscaped in compliance with §
1007.049.
         2.   The architectural appearance and functional plan of the building
and site shall not be so dissimilar to the existing buildings or areas as to
cause impairment in property values or constitute a blighting influence.
         3.   The entire area other than occupied by the building or planting
shall be surfaced with blacktop or concrete which will control dust and
drainage which is subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
         4.   The entire area shall have a drainage system which is subject to
the approval of the City Engineer.
         5.   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create a minimum
of conflict with through traffic movement and shall be subject to the approval
of the City Engineer.
         6.   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise.
         7.   An internal site pedestrian circulation system shall be defined
and appropriate provisions made to protect such areas from encroachments by
parked motor vehicles or moving vehicles.
         8.   Motor fuel activities associated with the bus service shall be
installed in compliance with state and city standards. Additionally, adequate
space shall be provided to access gas pumps and allow maneuverability around
the pumps. Underground fuel storage tanks are to be positioned to allow
adequate access by motor fuel transports and unloading operations do not
conflict with circulation, access and other activities on the site. Fuel pumps
shall be installed on pump islands.
      (c)   Commercial and public radio and television transmitting antennas,
and public utility microwave antennas greater than 45 feet in height and less
than 200 feet in height in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (d)   Commercial kennels, provided that:
         1.   The applicable provisions of City Code Chapter 503 are determined
to be satisfied.
         2.   Cages, enclosures, and housing facilities shall be at least 500
feet from any residential lot line.
         3.   An enclosed indoor or exterior exercise area shall be provided to
accommodate the periodic exercising of animals boarded at the kennel. Exterior
exercise areas shall be enclosed by an eight-foot high solid fence.
         4.   All animals shall be housed indoors for overnight boarding.
      (e)   Outdoor storage (not outdoor sales lots) as an accessory use
provided that:
         1.   The designated storage area shall comply with all building
setback requirements for the district. Outdoor storage is prohibited between
the principal structure and any public right-of-way.
         2.   The storage area is landscaped and screened from view of adjacent
uses and public rights-of-way via a fence and greenbelt planting strip, in
compliance with §
1007.049(6).
         3.   The entire storage area is fenced and secured in an appropriate
manner.
         4.   The storage area is blacktopped or concrete surfaced.
         5.   The storage area does not take up parking space or loading space
as required for conformity to this chapter and is not located in the front
yard.
         6.   The property shall not abut I-35W or I-35E.
         7.   The ratio of storage area to building footprint shall not exceed
1:1.
         8.   All parking, loading and truck staging activities shall occur on
site. On-street parking and loading associated with the use is prohibited.
         9.   Storage shall not include material considered hazardous under
federal or state environmental law.
         10.   The outdoor storage items or materials shall be directly related
to the principal industrial user. No off-site user storage shall be allowed.
      (f)   Veterinary hospitals provided that:
         1.   All areas in which animals are confined are located indoors and
are properly soundproofed from adjacent properties.
         2.   Animal carcasses are properly disposed of in a manner not
utilizing on-site garbage facilities or incineration and the carcasses are
properly refrigerated during periods prior to disposal.
         3.   An indoor animal kennel is permitted as a use accessory to the
veterinary hospital provided that:
            a.   The number of animals boarded shall not exceed 40.
            b.   An enclosed indoor or exterior exercise area shall be provided
to accommodate the periodic exercising of animals boarded at the kennel.
Exterior exercise areas shall be limited to a maximum of 25% of the gross floor
area of the principal use.
            c.   A ventilation system shall be designed so that no odors or
organisms will spread between wards or to the outside air and will be capable
of completely exchanging internal air at a rate of at least twice per hour. Air
temperature must be maintained between 60ºF. and 75ºF.
            d.   A room separate from the kennel area shall be provided of
sufficient size to adequately separate animals that are sick or injured from
healthy animals.
            e.   Indoor animal kennel floors and walls shall be made of non-
porous materials or sealed concrete to make it non-porous.
            f.   Animal wastes shall be flushed down an existing sanitary sewer
system or enclosed in a container of sufficient construction to eliminate odors
and organisms and shall be properly disposed of at least once a day.
         4.   The appropriate license is obtained from the city and the
conditions of City Code
Chapter 503 relating to the keeping of animals are met.
         5.   All State Health Department and Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency requirements for such facilities are met.
      (g)   Two or more principal buildings on same lot provided such buildings
relate to a permitted or conditional use that is operated as a single business
or enterprise.
   (10)   Uses by administrative permit. The following uses require an
administrative permit in compliance with §
1007.019:
      (a)   Personal wireless service antennas as secondary uses in compliance
with §
1007.062.
      (b)   Telecommunication towers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (c)   Temporary mobile towers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (d)   Essential services.
      (e)   Open air markets.
      (f)   Temporary structures in compliance with §
1007.071.
      (g)   Transient merchants.
      (h)   Accessory outdoor dining areas intended for consumption of food or
beverages purchased on site in compliance with §
1007.063.
   (11)   Interim uses. The following uses require an interim use permit in
compliance with §
1007.017:
      (a)   Earth moving and land reclamation in compliance with §
1007.059.
      (b)   Batch plants.
(Am. Ord. 13-23, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 1007.141 GI, GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 02-25, adopted 3-10-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the GI, General Industrial District is to
provide for the establishment of general industrial uses and services. These
are areas which, because of access to thoroughfares, suitable topography, and
isolation, are appropriate for industrial uses of a more intense nature and
ones which may have certain nuisance characteristics. Land to be zoned GI shall
be served with public sanitary sewer and water and shall be in an Industrial
land use category according to the comprehensive plan.
   (2)   Lot and setback requirements.
      (a)   Minimum lot size.
         1.   Sewered lot. One acre.
         2.   Unsewered lot. 10 acres in compliance with applicable provisions
of §
1007.042(2)(b).
      (b)   Minimum lot width. 100 feet.
      (c)   Setbacks.
         1.   From street right-of-way.
            a.   Local or minor collector street. 50 feet.
            b.   Major collector or arterial street. 50 feet.
            c.   I-35W or I-35 E. 15 feet.
            d.   Parking lot. 15 feet.
         2.   Rear lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 15 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 10 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 5 feet.
         3.   Side lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 10 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 10 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 10 feet.
         4.   From property guided by the comprehensive plan for residential
use. 100 feet.
   (3)   Buffer. Where a side or rear lot line in a GI District abuts property
guided by the comprehensive plan for residential or commercial development, a
landscape buffer area shall be provided along such side or rear lot line not
less than 40 feet wide and shall contain landscaping, planting, berming, or
other effective screening suitable to provide an effective visual screen in
compliance with §
1007.049(6).
   (4)   Maximum building height. 45 feet except as allowed by §
1007.043(3).
   (5)   Maximum impervious surface coverage. 75% of the lot area.
   (6)   Building requirements. All newly constructed industrial buildings
shall meet the exterior building standards of §
1007.043(2)(d).
   (7)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the GI District:
      (a)   Beverage production and bottling, including public tours of the
facilities and gift shops containing merchandise directly related to the
facility.
      (b)   Building material sales.
      (c)   Commercial (production) bakery.
      (d)   Community gardens operated by the city.
      (e)   Construction-related businesses, including contractor storage of
equipment and building materials if enclosed within a building, but not storage
yards.
      (f)   Data centers.
      (g)   Feed and seed sales.
      (h)   Greenhouses, nurseries.
      (i)   Indoor self-storage.
      (j)   Laundry, dry cleaning or dying plant.
      (k)   Manufacturing or assembly of a wide variety of products that
produces no exterior noise, glare, fumes, noxious products, by-products, or
wastes, or creates other objectionable impact on the environment, including the
generation of large volumes of traffic.
      (l)   Mass transit terminals.
      (m)   Office business-clinic and general.
      (n)   Radio and television stations.
      (o)   Recreational business contained entirely within the principal
building.
      (p)   Warehousing and distribution facilities, but not including trucking
terminal or mini self-storage facilities.
      (q)   Wholesale businesses/showrooms.
   (8)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the GI
District:
      (a)   Accessory buildings and structures in compliance with §
1007.044(1).
      (b)   Accessory indoor retail, rental, or service activities other than
that allowed as a permitted or conditional use within the General Industrial
zoning district, provided such use is related and accessory to an allowed
principal use in the district.
      (c)   Crude oil, gasoline or other liquid storage tanks (not including
bulk propane at motor fuel stations for providing service to the general
public) where related and accessory to an allowed principal use in the
district.
      (d)   Fences in compliance with §
1007.050.
      (e)   Off-street loading in compliance with §
1007.053.
      (f)   Off-street parking in compliance with §
1007.052.
      (g)   Radio and television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs
three meters or less in diameter, short-wave dispatching antennas, or those
necessary for the operation of electronic equipment including radio receivers,
ham radio transmitters and television receivers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (h)   Signs in compliance with City Code
Chapter 1010.
      (i)   Brewer taprooms accessory to a malt liquor beverage production and
bottling facility.
      (j)   Tasting room accessory to a distilled spirits beverage production
and bottling facility.
      (k)   Tasting room accessory to a wine beverage production and bottling
facility.
      (l)   Liquor sales, on sale through brewer taprooms and off sale pursuant
to M.S. § 340A.301, subdivision 10, all accessory to a malt liquor beverage
production and bottling facility.
   (9)   Conditional uses. The following uses require a conditional use permit
in compliance with §
1007.016:
      (a)   Automobile repair-major and minor provided that:
         1.   All painting must be conducted in an approved paint booth per §
1007.047(2).
         2.   All flammable materials, including liquids and rags, shall
conform to the applicable provisions of the Minnesota Uniform Fire Code.
         3.   All outdoor storage shall be prohibited except the storage of
customer vehicles waiting for repair.
      (b)   Bus garage provided that:
         1.   When abutting a residential use or residential district, the
property shall be screened and landscaped in compliance with §
1007.049.
         2.   The architectural appearance and functional plan of the building
and site shall not be so dissimilar to the existing buildings or areas as to
cause impairment in property values or constitute a blighting influence.
         3.   The entire area other than occupied by the building or planting
shall be surfaced with blacktop or concrete which will control dust and
drainage which is subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
         4.   The entire area shall have a drainage system which is subject to
the approval of the City Engineer.
         5.   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create a minimum
of conflict with through traffic movement and shall be subject to the approval
of the City Engineer.
         6.   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise.
         7.   An internal site pedestrian circulation system shall be defined
and appropriate provisions made to protect such areas from encroachments by
parked motor vehicles or moving vehicles.
         8.   Motor fuel activities associated with the bus service shall be
installed in compliance with state and city standards. Additionally, adequate
space shall be provided to access gas pumps and allow maneuverability around
the pumps. Underground fuel storage tanks are to be positioned to allow
adequate access by motor fuel transports and unloading operations do not
conflict with circulation, access and other activities on the site. Fuel pumps
shall be installed on pump islands.
      (c)   Commercial and public radio and television transmitting antennas,
and public utility microwave antennas greater than 45 feet in height and less
than 200 feet in height in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (d)   Concrete product plants, building materials production and similar
uses provided that:
         1.   Storage areas are landscaped, fenced and screened from view of
neighboring uses, properties guided by the comprehensive plan for residential
or commercial development, and public rights-of-way in compliance with §
1007.049(6).
      (e)   Commercial kennels, provided that:
         1.   The applicable provisions of City Code
Chapter 503 are determined to be satisfied.
         2.   Cages, enclosures, and housing facilities shall be at least 500
feet from any residential lot line.
         3.   An enclosed indoor or exterior exercise area shall be provided to
accommodate the periodic exercising of animals boarded at the kennel. Exterior
exercise areas shall be enclosed by an eight-foot high solid fence.
         4.   All animals shall be housed indoors for overnight boarding.
      (f)   Manufacture of materials, including but not limited to, rubber,
corrosive acids, petroleum and chemical products, which pose potential health
and safety risks and which when produced give off potentially noxious odors.
      (g)   Mini self-storage facilities provided that:
         1.   No single building shall be greater than 150 feet in length.
         2.   No retailing, wholesaling, manufacturing, repair, or other such
activity other than storage is to occur within the mini self-storage facility.
         3.   No occupancy of the storage units is permitted.
         4.   The overhead doors are not allowed on building elevations facing
a public street or residential property.
      (h)   Outdoor storage (not outdoor sales lots) as an accessory use
provided that:
         1.   The designated storage area shall comply with all building
setback requirements for the district. Outdoor storage is prohibited between
the principal structure and any public right-of-way.
         2.   The storage area is landscaped and screened from view of adjacent
uses and public rights-of-way via a fence and greenbelt planting strip, in
compliance with §
1007.049(6).
         3.   The entire storage area is fenced and secured in an appropriate
manner.
         4.   The storage area is blacktopped, concrete surfaced, or class 5
gravel unless an alternative wear-resistant material is determined by the City
Engineer to be suitable to control dust and drainage and is specifically
approved by the City Council.
         5.   The storage area does not take up parking space or loading space
as required for conformity to this chapter and is not located in the front
yard.
         6.   The property shall not abut I-35W or I-35E.
         7.   All parking, loading and truck staging activities shall occur on
site. On-street parking and loading associated with the use is prohibited.
         8.   Storage shall not include material considered hazardous under
federal or state environmental law.
         9.   The outdoor storage items or materials shall be directly related
to the principal industrial user. No off-site user storage shall be allowed.
      (i)   Trucking terminals provided that:
         1.   Vehicular access points shall be located along arterial streets
and shall be limited and designed and constructed to create a minimum of
conflict with through traffic movement.
      (j)   Two or more buildings on same lot provided such buildings relate to
a permitted or conditional use that is operated as a single business or
enterprise.
   (10)   Uses by administrative permit. The following uses require an
administrative permit in compliance with §
1007.019:
      (a)   Personal wireless service antennas as secondary uses in compliance
with §
1007.062.
      (b)   Telecommunication towers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (c)   Temporary mobile towers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (d)   Essential services.
      (e)   Open air markets.
      (f)   Temporary structures in compliance with §
1007.071.
      (g)   Transient merchants.
      (h)   Accessory outdoor dining areas intended for consumption of food or
beverages purchased on site in compliance with §
1007.063.
   (11)   Interim uses. The following uses require an interim use permit in
compliance with §
1007.017:
      (a)   Earth moving and land reclamation in compliance with §
1007.059.
      (b)   Batch plants.
(Am. Ord. 13-23, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 1007.142 BC, BUSINESS CAMPUS DISTRICT.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 02-25, adopted 3-10-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of BC, Business Campus District is to provide for
the establishment of multi-use buildings, business offices, wholesale
showrooms, and related uses in an environment which provides a high level of
amenities, including landscaping, preservation of natural features,
architectural controls, pedestrian trails, and other features. Land to be zoned
BC shall be served with public sanitary sewer and water and shall be in a
Business Campus, Commercial, or Industrial land use category according to the
comprehensive plan.
   (2)   Lot and setback requirements.
      (a)   Minimum lot size. One acre.
      (b)   Minimum lot width. 100 feet.
      (c)   Setbacks.
         1.   From street right-of-way.
            a.   Local or minor collector street. 30 feet.
            b.   Major collector or arterial street. 50 feet.
            c.   I-35W or I-35E. 15 feet.
            d.   Parking lot. 15 feet.
         2.   Rear lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 15 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 10 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 5 feet.
         3.   Side lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 10 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 10 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 10 feet.
         4.   From property guided by the comprehensive plan for residential
use. 100 feet.
   (3)   Buffer. Where a side or rear lot line in a BC District abuts property
guided by the comprehensive plan for residential or commercial development, a
landscape buffer area shall be provided along such side or rear lot line not
less than 40 feet wide and shall contain landscaping, planting, berming, or
other effective screening suitable to provide an effective visual screen in
compliance with §
1007.049(6).
   (4)   Maximum building height. 45 feet except as allowed by §
1007.043(3).
   (5)   Maximum impervious surface coverage. 75% of the lot area.
   (6)   Building requirements. All newly constructed industrial buildings
shall meet the exterior building standards of §
1007.043(2)(d).
   (7)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the BC District:
      (a)   Banks, credit unions and other financial institutions.
      (b)   Conference centers.
      (c)   Copy/printing services (excluding printing presses and publishing
facilities).
      (d)   Data centers.
      (e)   Manufacturing, compounding, assembly, packaging, warehousing
(excluding explosives and hazardous waste), or treatment of merchandise or
commodities.
      (f)   Offices, administrative/commercial.
      (g)   Offices/clinics for medical, dental, or chiropractic services.
      (h)   Radio and television stations.
      (i)   Reception halls/event centers, with or without catering services.
      (j)   Sports and fitness clubs.
      (k)   Research laboratories.
      (l)   Trade or business schools.
      (m)   Tutoring/learning centers.
      (n)   Wholesale businesses/showrooms.
   (8)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the BC
District:
      (a)   Accessory buildings and structures in compliance with §
1007.043(4)(l).
      (b)   Accessory indoor retail, rental or service activities other than
that allowed as a permitted or conditional use within the Business Campus
zoning district, provided such use is related and accessory to a principal use
allowed within the Business Campus zoning district.
      (c)   Entertainment, live; in association with a restaurant.
      (d)   Fences in compliance with §
1007.050.
      (e)   Off-street loading in compliance with §
1007.053.
      (f)   Off-street parking in compliance with §
1007.052.
      (g)   Radio and television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs
three meters or less in diameter, short-wave dispatching antennas, or those
necessary for the operation of electronic equipment including radio receivers,
ham radio transmitters and television receivers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (h)   Signs in compliance with City Code
Chapter 1010.
   (9)   Conditional uses. The following uses require a conditional use permit
in compliance with §
1007.016:
      (a)   Commercial and public radio and television transmitting antennas,
and public utility microwave antennas greater than 45 feet in height and less
than 200 feet in height in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (b)   Two or more principal buildings on same lot provided such buildings
relate to a permitted or conditional use that is operated as a single business
or enterprise.
      (c)   Dining restaurants not exceeding 15%% of the gross floor area of
the building in which it is located, provided that no drive-through window
service shall be included.
      (d)   Extended stay hotels provided that more than 50% of the rooms shall
have cooking facilities.
      (e)   Hotels with optional restaurant, food service and on-sale liquor.
      (f)   Retail commercial activities, personal services, and food service
(cafeteria, delicatessen, coffee house) as an accessory use provided that:
         1.   Personal services are limited to those uses and activities which
are allowed as a permitted or permitted accessory use within the BC Zoning
District.
         2.   The activity is located within a structure whose principal use is
not commercial sales.
         3.   All such activities are conducted in a clearly defined area of
the principal building reserved exclusively for such use. Said area must be
physically segregated from other principal activities in the building.
         4.   The area devoted to such activity shall not occupy more than 15%
of the gross floor area of the building.
         5.   Hours of operation are limited to 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. unless
specifically modified by the City Council.
         6.   No directly or indirectly illuminated sign or sign in excess of
ten square feet identifying the name of the business shall be visible from the
outside of the building.
         7.   No signs or posters of any type advertising products for sale or
services shall be visible from the outside of the building.
   (10)   Uses by administrative permit. The following uses require an
administrative permit in compliance with §
1007.019:
      (a)   Personal wireless service antennas as secondary uses in compliance
with §
1007.062.
      (b)   Telecommunication towers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (c)   Temporary mobile towers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (d)   Essential services.
      (e)   Open air markets.
      (f)   Temporary structures in compliance with §
1007.071.
      (g)   Transient merchants.
      (h)   Accessory outdoor dining areas intended for consumption of food or
beverages purchased on site in compliance with §
1007.063.
   (11)   Interim uses. The following uses require an interim use permit in
compliance with §
1007.017:
      (a)   Earth moving and land reclamation in compliance with §
1007.059.
      (b)   Batch plants.
(Am. Ord. 13-23, passed 9-11-2023)
SPECIAL DISTRICTS
§ 1007.150 PSP, PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC DISTRICT.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the PSP, Public and Semi-Public District is to
provide for the establishment of a district designed and intended to aid in
guiding development towards fulfillment of the comprehensive plan and to serve
the following functions:
      (a)   To provide the community with properly located schools, colleges,
and health institutions.
      (b)   To provide the community with properly located public services,
public utilities, and public or private communication antennas.
      (c)   To provide the community with properly located open green space,
parks, playgrounds, and recreational facilities.
      (d)   To relate public and semi-public locations with thoroughfare
system.
   (2)   Lot and setback requirements.
      (a)   Minimum lot size.
         1.   Sewered lot. One acre.
         2.   Unsewered lot. 10 acres in compliance with §
1007.042(2)(b).
      (b)   Minimum lot width. 100 feet.
      (c)   Setbacks.
         1.   From street right-of-way.
            a.   Local or minor collector street. 50 feet.
            b.   Major collector or arterial street. 50 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 15 feet.
            d.   Recreation facilities/athletic fields. 15 feet.
         2.   Rear lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 30 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 10 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 10 feet.
         3.   Side lot line.
            a.   Principal building. 10 feet.
            b.   Accessory building. 10 feet.
            c.   Parking lot. 5 feet.
   (3)   Maximum building height. 45 feet except as allowed by §
1007.043(3).
   (4)   Maximum impervious surface coverage. 65% of the lot area.
   (5)   Building requirements. All newly constructed industrial buildings
shall meet the exterior building standards of §
1007.043(2)(d).
   (6)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the PSP District:
      (a)   All public buildings for county and state government.
      (b)   All public buildings for municipal government, such as City Hall,
water works, sewage plant, police, fire, etc.
      (c)   Public parks, recreation facilities, and golf courses.
      (d)   Community gardens operated by the city.
   (7)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the PSP
District:
      (a)   Accessory buildings and structures in compliance with §
1007.044(10).
      (b)   Fences in compliance with §
1007.050.
      (c)   Off-street parking in compliance with §
1007.052.
      (d)   Off-street loading in compliance with §
1007.053.
      (e)   Outdoor storage accessory to the principal use screened from all
lot lines in compliance with §
1007.049.
      (f)   Radio and television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs
three meters or less in diameter, short-wave dispatching antennas, or those
necessary for the operation of electronic equipment including radio receivers,
ham radio transmitters and television receivers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (g)   Signs in compliance with City Code
Chapter 1010.
      (h)   Parks, playgrounds, or athletic fields accessory to an allowed
principal use.
   (8)   Conditional uses. The following uses require a conditional use permit
in compliance with §
1007.016:
      (a)   All schools (public and private) provided that:
         1.   Side yards shall be double that required for the district.
         2.   Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and landscaping
is provided in compliance with §
1007.049 of this chapter.
         3.   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site or
on lots directly abutting or directly across a public street or alley to the
principal use in compliance with §
1007.052 and that such parking is adequately screened and landscaped from
surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with §
1007.049 of chapter.
         4.   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are provided
and regulated where applicable by §
1007.053.
         5.   The provisions of §
1007.016 are considered and determined to be satisfied.
      (b)   Hospitals provided that:
         1.   Side yards are double the minimum requirements established for
this district and are screened in compliance with §
1007.043(17).
         2.   Only the rear yard shall be used for play or recreational areas.
Said area shall be fenced and controlled in compliance with §
1007.049.
         3.   The site shall be served by an arterial or collector street of
sufficient capacity to accommodate traffic which will be generated.
         4.   All state statutes and regulations governing such use are
strictly adhered to and all required operating permits are secured.
         5.   The provisions of §
1007.016 are considered and determined to be satisfied.
      (c)   Two or more buildings on same lot provided such buildings relate to
a permitted or conditional use that is operated as a single business or
enterprise.
   (9)   Uses by administrative permit. The following uses require an
administrative permit in compliance with §
1007.019:
      (a)   Personal wireless service antennas as secondary uses in compliance
with §
1007.062.
      (b)   Telecommunication towers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (c)   Temporary mobile towers in compliance with §
1007.062.
      (d)   Essential services.
      (e)   Open air markets.
      (f)   Temporary structures in compliance with §
1007.071.
      (g)   Transient merchants.
   (10)   Interim uses. The following uses require an interim use permit in
compliance with §
1007.017:
      (a)   Earth moving and land reclamation in compliance with §
1007.059.
      (b)   Farms, farm dwellings, horticulture, and agriculture.
(Am. Ord. 13-23, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 1007.151 PUD, PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the PUD, Planned Unit Development District is
to provide for the integration and coordination of land parcels, as well as the
combination or mixture of varying types of residential, commercial, and/or
industrial land uses.
   (2)   Application. All permitted, permitted accessory or conditional uses
contained in all zoning districts identified in §
1007.090 through
1007.151 shall be directed as potentially permitted uses within the PUD
District.
   (3)   Procedure. Whether requested as a rezoning or initially established by
city action alone, a PUD, Planned Unit Development District, shall be
established and governed subject to the amendment and procedure requirements as
outlined in §
1007.015, plus the procedures, conditions, and standards imposed by §
1007.024.
   (4)   Reference to pre-existing PDO, Planned Development Overlays that pre-
date the adoption of this chapter have been rezoned to PUD, Planned Unit
Development.
   (5)   List of PUD, Planned Unit Developments. The following is a list of
PUD, Planned Unit Developments:
   (a)   Rice Lake Estates.
      1.   Ord. No. 09-88, Adopted August 8, 1988.
   (b)   Pineridge Addition.
      1.   Ord. No. 08-90, Adopted September 10, 1990.
   (c)   Wenzel Farms.
      1.   Ord. No. 04-91, Adopted April 8, 1991.
      2.   Ord. No. 06-91, Adopted April 8, 1991.
   (d)   Park Grove.
      1.   Ord. No. 15-92, Adopted August 10, 1992.
   (e)   Quail Ridge.
      1.   Ord. No. 15-92, Adopted August 10, 1992.
   (f)   Willow Ponds.
      1.   Ord. No. 17-92, Adopted September 14, 1992.
      2.   Ord. No. 11-95, Adopted July 10, 1995.
   (g)   Country Lake Estates.
      1.   Ord. No. 93-10, Adopted July 26, 1993.
   (h)   Trappers Crossing.
      1.   Ord. No. 14-94, Adopted August 22, 1994.
   (i)   Behms Century Farm.
      1.   Ord. No. 08-95, Adopted May 8, 1995.
   (j)   Apollo Meadows Townhomes (CIC 34).
      1.   Adopted December 16, 1996.
   (k)   Surfside Addition.
      1.   Ord. No. 22-97, Adopted September 8, 1997.
      2.   Res. No. 99-47, Adopted June 28, 1999.
   (l)   Highland Meadows West.
      1.   Ord. No. 32-97, Adopted November 10, 1997.
      2.   Ord. No. 03-00, Adopted February 14, 2000.
   (m)   Clearwater Creek 3rd-5th Addition.
      1.   Ord. No. 08-99, Adopted April 26, 1999.
   (n)   Apollo Business Park (CIC 224 Lino Lakes Condo).
      1. Ord. No. 09-99, Adopted April 26, 1999.
   (o)   Lino Lakes Commercial Development/JADT Addition.
      1.   Ord. No. 12-99, Adopted May 10, 1999.
   (p)   Peregrine Pass.
      1.   Res. No. 99-25, Adopted May 24, 1999.
      2.   Ord. No. 14-99, Adopted June 14, 1999.
   (q)   Spirit Hills Center.
      1.   Ord. No. 08-02, Adopted December 9, 2002.
   (r)   Keefe Estates.
      1.   Ord. No. 05-03, Adopted March 10, 2003.
   (s)   Millers Crossroads.
      1.   Ord. No. 20-03, Adopted October 13, 2003.
   (t)   Lino Lakes Market Place.
      1.   Ord. No. 16-01, Adopted August 27, 2001.
      2.   Ord. No. 03-05, Adopted July 11, 2005.
      3.   Ord. No. 04-05, Adopted June 27, 2005.
   (u)   Century Farm North.
      1.   Ord. No. 03-12, Adopted April 28, 2003.
   (v)   Raven's Hollow.
      1.   Ord. No. 03-17, Adopted August 25, 2003.
   (w)   Miller's Crossroads.
      1.   Ord. No. 03-20, Adopted October 13, 2003.
   (x)   Legacy at Woods Edge.
      1.   Ord. No. 04-02, Adopted February 9, 2004.
      2.   Ord. No. 08-14, Adopted December 8, 2008.
      3.   Ord. No. 09-11, Adopted November 23, 2009.
   (y)   Rich Creek Covenant Church.
      1.   Ord. No. 04-04, Adopted March 22, 2004.
   (z)   Pheasant Hills Preserve Twelfth Addition.
      2.   Ord. No. 04-22, Adopted October 12, 2004.
   (aa)   Fox Den Acres.
      3.   Ord. No. 04-26, Adopted January 24, 2005.
   (bb)   The Preserve.
      4.   Ord. No. 06-08, Adopted September 11, 2006.
   (cc)   Vaughn's First Addition.
      1. Ord. No. 08-02, Adopted February 25, 2008.
   (dd)   Southwest Quarter of Section 28, Township 31, Range 22.
      1. Ord. No. 14-01, Adopted February 24, 2014.
   (ee)   Century Farm North.
      1. Ord. No. 14-06, Adopted August 11, 2014.
   (ff)   Watermark.
      1. Ord. No. 16-04, Adopted June 27, 2016.
   (gg)   Clearwater Creek Business Park.
      1. Ord. No. 16-07, Adopted August 8, 2016.
   (hh)   Nature's Refuge.
      1. Ord. No. 18-05, Adopted June 25, 2018.
   (ii)   Saddle Club Fourth Addition.
      1. Ord. No. 18-06, Adopted June 25, 2018.
   (jj)   Lyngblomsten.
      1. Ord. No. 19-07, Adopted April 22, 2019.
(Am. Ord. 13-23, passed 9-11-2023)
APPENDIX A: LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
   Editor’s Note: The zoning code codified in Chapter 1007 is based on Ord. 08-
22, passed November 28, 2022. Prior zoning legislation is set forth in the
table below. Any legislation passed subsequent to Ord. 08-22 will be captured
in derivation histories at the end of affected sections of the zoning chapter
and are not part of the following table.
Ordinance Number Passage Date
Ordinance Number Passage Date
01-03            1-27-2003
08-03            - -2003
21-03            - -2003
24-04            12-13-2004
09-06            10-9-2006
19-07            12-10-2007
01-08            1-28-2008
11-08            8-11-2008
01-09            2-9-2009
04-09            8-10-2009
05-09            8-10-2009
01-10            2-22-2010
02-10            2-22-2010
04-10            3-8-2010
05-10            4-12-2010
08-10            6-28-2010
11-10            10-11-2010
02-11            1-24-2011
03-11            1-24-2011
04-11            1-24-2011
07-11            3-28-2011
13-11            6-27-2011
15-11            7-25-2011
21-11            11-28-2011
1-12             1-23-2012
3-12             3-12-2012
7-12             7-23-2012
8-12             7-23-2012
07-13            8-26-2013
10-14            11-24-2014
08-15            10-12-2015
09-16            9-12-2016
07-18            6-25-2018
09-18            7-23-2018
10-18            7-23-2018
01-19            11-25-2019
05-19            4-8-2019
06-19            4-8-2019
01-20            2-10-2020
 
APPENDIX B: ZONING MAP OF LINO LAKES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2596.png]
 
CHAPTER 1008: SHADE TREES
Section
   
1008.01   Purpose
   
1008.02   Short title
   
1008.03   Definitions
   
1008.04   Creation and establishment of City Tree Board
   
1008.05   Duties and responsibilities
   
1008.06   Operation
   
1008.07   Appointment and qualifications of city forester
   
1008.08   Authority of city forester
   
1008.09   Permits required
   
1008.10   Public tree care
   
1008.11   Abuse or mutilation of public trees
   
1008.12   Protection of trees
   
1008.13   Violation and penalty
   
1008.14   Legality of chapter and parts thereof
§ 1008.01 PURPOSE.
   A chapter regulating the planting, maintenance and removal of trees and
shrubs in the public streets and other municipal owned property:
   (1)   Establishing a Shade Tree Board and establishing the office of
forestry as the agencies prescribing regulations relating to the planting
maintenance and removal of trees and shrubs in public places;
   (2)   Providing for the issuing of permits for the planting, maintenance and
removal of trees and shrubs in public places; and
   (3)   Providing for the pruning and removal of trees on private property
which endanger public safety, providing for standards and specifications of all
policy concerning shade trees on public property, providing for standards and
specifications of care protection policy concerning shade trees in subdivision
properties, providing for standards and specification for care protection
policy concerning shade trees in land disturbance areas.
(Prior Code, § 1007.01) (Ord. 15-90, passed 3-25-1991)
§ 1008.02 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Shade Tree Chapter of
the City of Lino Lakes, County of Anoka, State of Minnesota.
(Prior Code, § 1007.02) (Ord. 15-90, passed 3-25-1991)
§ 1008.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of the chapter the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural include singular and words in the singular include the plural.
   CITY. The City of Lino Lakes, County of Anoka, State of Minnesota.
   CITY FORESTER. Municipal arborist, forester, tree warden or other qualified
designated official of the City of Lino Lakes, County of Anoka, State of
Minnesota. The CITY FORESTER will be assigned to carry out the enforcement of
this chapter.
   FORESTRY DEPARTMENT. The Department of Parks, Recreation and Forestry.
   LARGE TREES. Designated as those attaining a height of 45 feet or more.
   MEDIUM TREES. Designated as those attaining a height of 30 to 45 feet.
   PARK. Shall include all city parks having individual names.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRINCIPAL THOROUGHFARE. Any street upon which trucks are not prohibited.
   PROPERTY LINE. The outer edge of a street or highway right-of-way. This area
includes the area between the curb and the platted lot line.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person owning the property as shown by the County
Auditor's plat of Anoka County, State of Minnesota.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Include all other grounds owned by the City of Lino Lakes.
   PUBLIC TREES. All shade and ornamental trees now or hereafter growing on any
street or any public areas where otherwise indicated.
   SMALL TREES. Designated as those attaining a height of 20 to 30 feet.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width of every public way or right-of-way when
any part thereof is open to the use of public, as a matter of right, for
purposes of vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   TREELAWN. Part of a street or highway, not covered by a sidewalk or other
paving, lying between the property line right-of-way and that portion of the
street or highway usually used for vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 1007.03) (Ord. 15-90, passed 3-25-1991)
§ 1008.04 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF CITY TREE BOARD.
   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board for the City of
Lino Lakes, State of Minnesota, which shall consist of the Park Board.
(Prior Code, § 1007.04) (Ord. 15-90, passed 3-25-1991)
§ 1008.05 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The duties of the City Tree Board shall be as follows.
   (1)   To study the problems and determine the needs of the City of Lino
Lakes, County of Anoka, State of Minnesota, in connection with its tree planing
program. To recommend to the City Council, the type and kind of trees to be
planted upon the municipal streets or parts of municipal streets or in parks as
is designated.
   (2)   To assist the City Council of the city and the citizens of the city in
the dissemination of news and information regarding the selection, planting,
preservation and maintenance of trees, whether the same be on private or public
property, and to make recommendations from time to time to the City Council as
to desirable legislation concerning the tree program and activities for the
municipality.
   (3)   To provide regular and special meetings at which the subject of trees
insofar as it relates to the municipality may be discussed by the members of
the City Tree Board officers and personnel of the municipality and its several
divisions, and all others interested in the City Tree Program.
(Prior Code, § 1007.05) (Ord. 15-90, passed 3-25-1991)
§ 1008.06 OPERATION.
   The Board shall operate within the rules set forth by the Park Board
Chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1007.06) (Ord. 15-90, passed 3-25-1991)
§ 1008.07 APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS OF CITY FORESTER.
   The city forester shall be appointed by the City Council. This person shall
be skilled and trained in the arts and sciences of municipal arboriculture, and
shall hold a college degree or its equivalent in arboriculture, ornamental or
landscape horticulture, urban forestry or other closely related field as
described in the job description in the city personnel files.
(Prior Code, § 1007.07) (Ord. 15-90, passed 3-25-1991)
§ 1008.08 AUTHORITY OF CITY FORESTER.
   The authority of the city forester shall be in accordance with the city
forester job description.
(Prior Code, § 1007.08) (Ord. 15-90, passed 3-25-1991)
§ 1008.09 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (1)   Planting maintenance or removal.
      (a)   No person shall plant, spray, fertilize, preserve, prune, remove,
cut above ground or otherwise disturb any tree on any street or municipal-owned
property without first obtaining a permit from the city forester or otherwise
specified municipal authority.
      (b)   The person receiving the permit shall abide by the arboricultural
specifications and standards of practice adopted by the city forester.
   (2)   Planting.
      (a)   Application data. The application required herein shall state the
number of trees to be set out; the location, grade, cultivar or variety of each
tree; the method of planting; and any other information as the city forester
shall find reasonably necessary to a fair determination of whether a permit
should be issued.
      (b)   Improper planting. Whenever any tree shall be planted or set out in
conflict with the provisions of this section, it shall be lawful for the city
forester to remove or cause removal of the same, and the exact cost thereof
shall be assessed to the owner as provided by law in the case of assessments.
   (3)   Maintenance; application data. The application required herein shall
state the number and kinds of trees to be sprayed, fertilized, pruned,
protected, or otherwise preserved; the kind of treatment to be administered;
the composition of the material to be applied; and any other information as the
city forester shall find reasonably necessary to a fair determination of
whether a permit should be issued.
   (4)   Removal, replanting and replacement.
      (a)   No person or property owner shall remove a tree from the treelawn
for the purpose of construction, or for any other reason without first filing
an application and obtaining a permit from the city forester, and without
replacing the removed tree or trees in accordance with the adopted
arboricultural specifications, the replacement as provided for in a permit
issued by the city forester.
      (b)   The person or property owner shall bear the cost of removal and
replacement of all trees removed.
(Prior Code, § 1007.09) (Ord. 15-90, passed 3-25-1991)
§ 1008.10 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (1)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, remove or
perform any other arboricultural practices as decided necessary within the
lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as
may be necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry
and beauty of public grounds. No other planting may be done without consent of
the city forester.
   (2)   The City Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any
tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its
nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or
other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or
other pest. The Tree Board shall notify affected property owners of removal or
trimming to be done and give the property owner the option to complete the work
by contract with the city approved tree contractor. Under certain conditions,
e.g.; emergency situations, the city may complete the work without prior
notification to the property owner.
   (3)   Every tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the city
shall be pruned so that the branches shall not obstruct the light from any
street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and so that there
shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the street or
sidewalk. Dead, diseased or dangerous trees, broken or decayed limbs which
constitute a menace to the safety of the public shall be removed. The city
shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it
interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a street light
or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device or sign.
   (4)   The minimum clearance of any overhanging portion is 12 feet over all
streets except trunk thoroughfares which shall have a clearance of 16 feet.
(Prior Code, § 1007.10) (Ord. 15-90, passed 3-25-1991)
§ 1008.11 ABUSE OR MUTILATION OF PUBLIC TREES.
   (1)   Unless specifically authorized by the city forester, no person shall
intentionally damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree; attach any
rope, wire nails, advertising posters, or other contrivance to any tree, allow
any gaseous liquid or solid substance which is harmful to trees to come in
contact with them; or set fire or permit any fire to burn when the fire or the
heat thereof will injure any portion of any tree.
   (2)   It shall be an unlawful practice for any person, firm or city
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property
without authorization from the city forester.
   (3)   Topping can be defined as severe cutting back of a branch to a stub.
(Prior Code, § 1007.11) (Ord. 15-90, passed 3-25-1991)
§ 1008.12 PROTECTION OF TREES.
   A tree preservation plan is to be submitted by all developers, builders and
soil disturbance project area facilitates in accordance with the City of Lino
Lakes Tree Preservation Administrative Guidelines Policy.
(Prior Code, § 1007.12) (Ord. 15-90, passed 3-25-1991)
§ 1008.13 VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 1007.13) (Ord. 15-90, passed 3-25-1991)
§ 1008.14 LEGALITY OF CHAPTER AND PARTS THEREOF.
   Should any section, clause or provisions of this chapter be declared by the
courts to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of the chapter as
a whole, or parts thereof, other than the part to be declared to be invalid.
(Prior Code, § 1007.14) (Ord. 15-90, passed 3-25-1991)
CHAPTER 1009: HOUSING MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
1009.01   Scope of chapter
   
1009.02   Assurance of rental housing
   
1009.03   Pre-existing dwellings and multiple dwellings
   
1009.04   Definitions
   
1009.05   Enforcement officer
   
1009.06   Inspection of dwellings
   
1009.07   Annual inspection of multiple dwellings
   
1009.08    Access by owner of multiple dwellings
   
1009.09    Notice of violation
Minimum Standards
   
1009.20   Exterior property areas
   
1009.21   Exterior of structures
   
1009.22   Interior structures
   
1009.23   Basic facilities
   
1009.24   Installation and maintenance
   
1009.25   Light and ventilation
   
1009.26   Fire safety
   
1009.27   Occupant responsibilities
   
1009.28   Rooming houses
Licenses
   
1009.40   Required
   
1009.41   Application
   
1009.42   License fees
   
1009.43   License issuance
   
1009.44   Posting of license
   
1009.45   Renewal of license
   
1009.46   Transfer of license
   
1009.47   Provisional license
   
1009.48   Manager certification
   
1009.49   Conduct on licensed premises
   
1009.50   Suspension, revocation, denial and non-renewal of a license
   
1009.51   No retaliation
   
1009.52   Recycling services required
Security Devices
   
1009.60   Key boxes
Effective Date
   
1009.70   Effective date and enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1009.01 SCOPE OF CHAPTER.
   Every portion of a building or premises used or intended to be used for
residential purposes shall comply with the provisions of this chapter
irrespective of when the building was constructed, altered or repaired. Any
alterations or changes of use which may be caused directly or indirectly by the
enforcement of this code shall be done in accordance with applicable sections
of the Building Code and Zoning Code. Rest homes, convalescent homes, nursing
homes, hotels and motels shall be exempted from compliance with this chapter.
§ 1009.02 ASSURANCE OF RENTAL HOUSING.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to assure that rental housing in the city
is decent, safe and sanitary and is so operated and maintained as not to become
a nuisance to the neighborhood or to become an influence that fosters blight
and deterioration or creates a disincentive to reinvestment in the community.
The operation of rental residential properties is a business enterprise that
entails certain responsibilities. Operators are responsible to take reasonable
steps as are necessary to assure that the citizens who occupy the units may
pursue the quiet enjoyment of the normal activities of life in surroundings
that are: safe, secure and sanitary; free from crimes and criminal activity,
noise, nuisances or annoyances; free from unreasonable fears about safety of
persons and security of property; and suitable for raising children.
§ 1009.03 PRE-EXISTING DWELLINGS AND MULTIPLE DWELLINGS.
   This chapter establishes minimum standards for the initial and continued
occupancy of all buildings and does not replace or modify standards otherwise
established for the construction, repair, alteration or use of building
equipment or facilities.
§ 1009.04 DEFINITIONS.
   Terms not defined in this section shall be as defined in the Building Code
or Zoning Code. Further, terms not defined in this section nor in the Building
Code or Zoning Code shall have the ordinary and accepted meanings as the
context shall require. The definitions in this section shall apply when these
words and phrases are used in this chapter.
   APPROVED. As applied to a material, device or method of construction as
approved by the enforcement officer under the provisions of this chapter or
approved by another authority designated by law to give approval in the matter
in question.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building that is partly or completely below
grade.
   BUILDING CODE. The State Building Code in its entirety as adopted by the
city, including any future amendments.
   DWELLING. Any building that contains dwelling units used, intended or
designed to be built, used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied or
that are occupied for living purposes.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A representative of the city responsible for the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS. Open space on the premises under the control of the
owners or operators of the premises.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by:
      (a)   Eliminating their harborage places;
      (b)   Removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve as their
feed; and
      (c)   Poison spraying, fumigating, trapping or another recognized and
legal pest elimination method.
   FAMILY. A group of one or more persons occupying a premises and living as a
single housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a
boardinghouse, lodging house, hotel or motel.
   GRADE. The surface of the ground or surface ground after completion of any
change in contour.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The sum of the horizontal areas of the several floors of
all buildings on a lot as measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls or
from the center line of walls separating two buildings.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room occupied by one or more persons used or intended for
living, cooking, eating or sleeping purposes. This definition does not include
bathrooms, closets, water closet compartments, laundries, serving and storage
pantries, corridors, cellars and spaces that are not used frequently or during
extended periods.
   INFESTATION. The presence of insects, rodents, vermin or other pests within
or contiguous to a multiple dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, rooming
unit or premises.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. A building or portion thereof containing two or more
dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age living and sleeping in a dwelling
unit or having actual possession of the dwelling or rooming unit.
   OPENABLE AREA. That part of a window or door which is available for
unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a multiple residence
or rooming house in which dwelling units or rooming units are let or offered
for occupancy.
   OWNER.
      (a)   Owner or owners of the freehold of the premises or lessor estate
therein;
      (b)   A mortgagor or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, receiver,
executor, trustee, lessee; or
      (c)   Other person in control of a building, including their managers and
agents.
   PLUMBING or PLUMBING FIXTURES. Water heating facilities, water pipes, gas
pipes, garbage disposal units, water closets, waste pipes, sinks, installed
dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing
machine or other similar equipment, catch basins, drains, vents or other
similarly supplied fixtures, together with all connections to water, gas, sewer
or vent lines.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land including the building or structures
thereon.
   RESIDENCE BUILDING. A building in which sleeping accommodations or sleeping
accommodations and cooking facilities as a unit are provided.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A residence building or any part thereof containing one or
more rooming units in which space is let by the owner or operator to persons
who are not the husband, wife, son, daughter, mother, father, sister or brother
of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
which is used or intended to be used for living and sleeping but not for
cooking or eating purposes.
   SUPPLIED. Installed, furnished or provided by the owner or operator.
   WORKMANLIKE STATE OF MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR. Maintenance and repair shall be
made in a reasonably skillful manner.
   YARD. All ground, lawn, court, walk, driveway or other open space
constituting part of the same premises as a residence building.
   VENTILATION. The process of supplying and removing air by natural or
mechanical means to or from any space.
   ZONING CODE. Zoning ordinances as adopted by the city including any future
amendments.
§ 1009.05 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   City personnel or their designees shall be responsible for enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter. Authorized representatives include but are not
limited to the Building Official, Fire Chief or designee and Police Chief or
designee.
§ 1009.06 INSPECTION OF DWELLINGS.
   (1)   The enforcement officer shall be authorized to make inspections to
determine the condition of dwellings, multiple dwellings, dwelling units,
rooming houses, rooming units and premises in order to safeguard the health,
safety, morals and welfare of the public.
   (2)   The enforcement officer, or the officer's designated representative,
shall be authorized to enter any dwelling, dwelling unit, multiple dwelling,
rooming house or premises at any reasonable time to perform the duties
prescribed under this chapter. The owner, operator or occupant shall give the
enforcement officer free access to the entire area for the purpose of
completing an inspection, examination or survey. The license shall be revoked
if the enforcement officer is not permitted access.
   (3)   A search warrant may be obtained when the occupant refuses to consent
to the inspection where:
      (a)   There is probable cause to believe a violation exists within the
particular structure; or
      (b)    A determination has been made to conduct periodic inspections of
certain areas of the city.
   (4)   No warrant is needed for entry where an emergency condition exists
which endangers persons or property and insufficient time is available to
obtain a warrant and protect endangered persons or property.
   (5)   Entry under this section is subject to M.S. § 504B.211, as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 1009.07 ANNUAL INSPECTION OF MULTIPLE DWELLINGS.
   The enforcement officer shall inspect the premises of all multiple dwelling
buildings at least once a year to insure compliance with this chapter.
§ 1009.08 ACCESS BY OWNER OF MULTIPLE DWELLINGS.
   Every occupant of a dwelling unit or rooming unit shall give the owner or
operator access to any part of the dwelling unit, rooming unit or its premises
at reasonable times for inspections, maintenance and making repairs or
alterations as may be necessary to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
§ 1009.09 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (1)   Written notice.
      (a)   When any violation of this chapter shall come to the attention of
the enforcement officer, written notice shall be provided to the licensee or if
no license has been issued, notice shall be provided to the owner, operator or
occupant of the premises.
      (b)   Notice shall be by United States mail at the last known address of
the person and notice shall also be posted in at least one conspicuous place
upon the premises where the violation exists.
   (2)   Time to correct.
      (a)   The notice shall give the alleged violator a specified number of
days, not exceeding 30 days, to correct the violation.
      (b)   The enforcement officer shall have the authority to extend the time
to correct the violation upon good cause being shown.
   (3)   Prosecution. Prosecution for any violation of this chapter shall not
be commenced unless the notice as provided in this section has been provided
and the cited violation has not been remedied within the time specified.
Failure to receive the notice shall not be a defense in any prosecution.
   (4)   Re-inspection fee. A fee shall be charged for all re-inspections
required because of a violation that is not corrected by the time specified in
the written notice. The fee shall be established in the annually adopted city
fee schedule.
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 1009.20 EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   (1)   Compliance. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another
for occupancy any dwelling unit, multiple dwelling, rooming house, rooming unit
or portion thereof for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or eating
therein which does not comply with the provisions of this division.
   (2)   Sanitation. All exterior property areas shall be maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition free from any accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
   (3)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained to
prevent the accumulation of stagnant water on the premises or within any
building or structure located thereon.
   (4)   Noxious weeds. All exterior property areas shall be kept free from
species of weeds or plant growth that are noxious or detrimental to the public
health.
   (5)    Insect and rodent harborage.
      (a)   Every owner and occupant of a structure containing two or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for the extermination of insects, rodents,
vermin or other pests in all exterior areas of the premises. The owner shall be
responsible for extermination when infestation exists in the shared or public
parts of the premises.
      (b)   In the case of a single-family structure, the occupant shall be
responsible for the extermination of insects, rodents and vermin in all
exterior property areas.
   (6)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures including detached
garages shall be maintained, structurally sound and in good repair.
   (7)   Unoccupied structure. The owner of every unoccupied dwelling or
multiple dwelling shall be responsible for the maintenance of exterior property
areas required under this division.
§ 1009.21 EXTERIOR OF STRUCTURES.
   (1)   Compliance. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another
for occupancy any dwelling unit, multiple dwelling, rooming house, rooming unit
or portion thereof for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or eating
therein that does not comply with the provisions of this division.
   (2)   Foundations, walls and roofs. Every foundation, exterior wall, roof
and all other exterior surfaces shall be maintained in a workmanlike state of
maintenance and repair.
      (a)   The foundation elements shall adequately support the building at
all points.
      (b)   Every exterior wall shall be free of holes, breaks, loose or
rotting boards or timbers, falling or loose stucco or brick and any other
conditions that might admit rain or dampness to the interior portions of the
walls or to the exterior spaces of the multiple dwelling.
      (c)   The roof shall be tight and have no defects that admit rain. Roof
drainage shall be adequate to prevent rain water from causing dampness in the
walls.
   (3)   Stairs, porches and railings.
      (a)   Every outside stair, porch and appurtenance attached thereto shall
be constructed so as to be safe for use and capable of supporting a load as
determined in the Building Code. These areas shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair.
      (b)   Every flight of stairs shall have hand rails that are located as
provided by the Building Code.
      (c)   Every porch which is more than 30 inches above grade shall have
rails so located and capable of restraining a horizontal pressure as determined
by the Building Code.
      (d)   Every rail and balustrade shall be firmly fastened and maintained
in good condition.
   (4)   Windows, doors and hatchways. Every window, exterior door and basement
hatchway shall be substantially tight and shall be kept in sound condition and
repair.
      (a)   Every window shall be fully supplied with window panes that are
without open cracks or holes.
      (b)   Every window sash shall be in good condition and fit reasonably
tightly within its frame.
      (c)   Every window, other than a fixed window, shall be capable of being
easily opened and shall be held in an open or closed position by window
hardware.
      (d)   Every exterior door, door hinge and door latch shall be in good
condition.
      (e)   When closed, every exterior door shall fit reasonably well within
its frame.
      (f)   Every window, door and frame shall be constructed and maintained in
relation to the adjacent wall construction as to completely exclude rain and
substantially exclude wind from entering the dwelling or multiple dwelling.
      (g)   Every basement hatchway shall be constructed and maintained so as
to prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water into the
dwelling or multiple dwelling.
      (h)   Every door available as an exit shall be capable of being opened
easily and without the use of a key from the inside.
§ 1009.22 INTERIOR STRUCTURES.
   (1)   Compliance. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another
for occupancy any dwelling, multiple dwelling, rooming house, rooming unit or
portion thereof for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or eating therein
which does not comply with the provisions of this division.
   (2)   Free from dampness. All cellars, basements and crawl spaces shall be
maintained reasonably free from dampness to prevent conditions conducive to
decay or deterioration of the structure.
   (3)   Structural members. The supporting structural members shall be
maintained structurally sound and show no evidence of deterioration. The load
bearing capability shall be as required by the Building Code.
   (4)   Interior stairs and railings.
      (a)   All interior stairs shall be maintained in sound condition and good
repair by replacing treads and risers that evidence excessive wear or are
broken, warped or loose. Every inside stair shall be so constructed and
maintained as to be safe to use and capable of supporting a load as determined
by the Building Code.
      (b)   Every stairwell and every flight of stairs shall have hand rails or
railings as required by the Building Code.
      (c)   Every hand rail or railing must be firmly fastened and must be
maintained in good condition. Properly balustraded railings capable of bearing
normally imposed loads as determined by the Building Code shall be placed in
the open portions of the stairs, balconies, landings and stairwells.
   (5)   Bathroom floors. Every toilet room floor surface and bathroom floor
surface shall be constructed and maintained to be impervious to water and to
permit the floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (6)   Sanitation. The interior shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition and free from accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
   (7)   Insect and rodent harborage.
      (a)   Every owner of a structure containing two or more dwelling units
shall be responsible for the extermination of insects, rodents, vermin or other
pests wherever infestation exists in two or more dwelling units or in the
shared or public parts of the structure.
      (b)   The occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling or multiple dwelling
shall be responsible for extermination within that unit when it is the only one
infested.
      (c)   Whenever infestation of rodents is caused or permitted by failure
of the owner to maintain the dwelling or multiple dwelling in a rodent proof
condition, extermination of the rodents shall be the responsibility of the
owner.
   (8)   Interior walls, floors, ceiling and woodwork. All interior walls,
floors, ceilings and associated woodwork or trim must be maintained in a sound
condition and workmanlike repair.
§ 1009.23 BASIC FACILITIES.
   (1)   Compliance. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another
for occupancy any dwelling unit, multiple dwelling, rooming house, rooming unit
or portion thereof for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or eating that
which does not comply with the provisions of this division.
   (2)   Water closet. Every dwelling unit shall contain within its walls a
room that affords privacy and is equipped with a water closet and is separate
from the habitable rooms.
   (3)   Lavatory. Every dwelling unit shall contain a lavatory that, when a
water closet is required, shall be in the same room with the water closet.
   (4)   Bathtub or shower. Every dwelling unit shall contain a room that
affords privacy to a person in the room and that is equipped with a bathtub or
shower.
   (5)   Kitchen sink. Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink apart
from the lavatory requirement in division (3) above.
   (6)   Connection to water and sewer system. Every required kitchen sink,
lavatory basin, bathtub, shower and water closet shall be properly connected to
either a public water and sewer system or to an approved private water and
sewer system and shall be supplied with hot and cold running water.
   (7)   Water heating facilities. Every dwelling or unit shall be supplied
with water heating facilities which shall be:
      (a)   Installed in an approved manner, properly maintained and properly
connected with hot water lines; and
      (b)   Capable of heating and delivering water to a temperature as to
permit an adequate amount of water to be drawn at every required kitchen sink,
lavatory basin, bathtub, shower and laundry facilities or other similar units
at a temperature of not less than 130°F (54°C) at any time needed.
   (8)   Heating facilities.
      (a)   Every dwelling and multiple dwelling unit shall have heating
facilities.
      (b)   The owner shall be required to see that the heating facilities are
properly installed, safely maintained and in good working condition.
      (c)   The owner shall ensure that the facilities are capable of safely
and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms to a
minimum room temperature of 68°F (20°C) at three feet above the floor and two
feet from exterior walls. The use of portable space heaters shall not be
permitted to achieve this requirement.
   (9)   Operation of heating facility and incinerator. Every heating or water
heating facility must be installed and operated in accordance with the
requirements of the Building Code.
§ 1009.24 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (1)   Compliance. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another
for occupancy any dwelling, multiple dwelling, rooming house or rooming unit or
portion thereof for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or eating therein
that does not comply with the provisions of this division.
   (2)   Plumbing fixtures. Every water line, plumbing fixture and drain shall
be:
      (a)   Properly installed, connected and maintained in working order;
      (b)   Kept free from obstructions, leaks, defects;
      (c)   Capable of performing the function for which it was designed; and
      (d)   Repairs and installations shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of the Building Code.
   (3)   Plumbing systems. Every stack, waste and sewer line shall be installed
and maintained so as to function properly and be kept free from obstructions,
leaks and defects to prevent structural deterioration or a health hazard. All
repairs and installations shall be made in accordance with provisions of the
Building Code.
   (4)   Heating equipment. Every space heating, cooking and water heating
device located in a dwelling or multiple dwelling shall be properly installed,
connected, maintained, and capable of performing the function for which it was
designed in accordance with the provisions of the Building Code.
   (5)    Electrical service, outlets and fixtures.
      (a)   All residential structures and dwelling units shall be supplied
with electrical service that is adequate to safely meet the electrical needs of
the structure and dwelling units in accordance with the provisions of the
Building Code.
      (b)   Every electrical outlet and fixture shall be installed, maintained
and connected to the source of electrical power in accordance with the
provisions of the Building Code.
   (6)   Maintenance of facilities and equipment.
      (a)   All required equipment and all building space and parts in all
dwelling units shall be constructed and maintained to properly and safely
perform their intended function in accordance with the provisions of the
Building Code.
      (b)   All housing facilities shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition so as to not breed insects and rodents or produce dangerous or
offensive gases or odors.
§ 1009.25 LIGHT AND VENTILATION.
   (1)   Light and ventilation. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let
to another for occupancy any dwelling, multiple dwelling, rooming house or
rooming unit, or portion thereof for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking
and eating therein that does not comply with the provisions of this division.
   (2)   Natural light in habitable rooms.
      (a)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window of approved
size facing directly to the outdoors or to a court. If the room is connected to
a room or area used seasonally, such as a porch, then adequate daylight must be
possible through this inter-connection.
      (b)   The minimum total window area measured between stops for every
habitable room shall be 8% of the floor area of the room.
      (c)   Whenever walls or other portions of like obstructions are located
less than three feet from the window and extend to a level above that of the
ceiling of the room, the window shall not be deemed to face directly to the
outdoors and shall not be included as contributing to the minimum total window
area.
   (3)   Natural light in non-habitable rooms. Every room, other than a
habitable room, used or occupied by persons shall comply with the provisions of
this section. This section shall not apply to a room with infrequent occupancy.
      (a)   The room shall be provided with at least one window opening
directly onto a street, court or be equipped with ventilating skylights which
comply with the requirements of this section; or
      (b)   The room shall be provided with an approved means of mechanical
ventilation.
   (4)   Light in non-habitable work space. Every laundry, furnace room and
similar non-habitable work space shall have at least one functioning electric
light fixture available at all times.
   (5)   Light in public halls and stairways. Every public hall and inside
stairway shall be adequately lighted at all times with an illumination of at
least one foot candle per square foot in the darkest portion of the normally
traveled stairs and passageways.
   (6) Electric outlets required. Every habitable room, kitchen, public hall,
water closet compartment, bathroom, laundry room and furnace room shall have
the minimum number of electrical outlets and electrical lighting fixtures as
provided for in the Building Code.
   (7) Adequate ventilation. Every habitable room shall have at least one
window which can be easily opened or other device as will adequately ventilate
the room. A total openable window area in every habitable room shall be equal
to at least 50% of the minimum window area size required in this section except
where mechanical ventilation is provided in accordance with the provisions of
the Building Code.
   (8)   Bathrooms and water closets. Every bathroom and water closet
compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for
habitable rooms contained in divisions (3) and (7) above except that no window
shall be required in bathrooms or water closet compartments equipped with an
approved ventilation system.
§ 1009.26 FIRE SAFETY.
   (1)   Compliance. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or shall let to
another for occupancy any dwelling, multiple dwelling, rooming house, rooming
unit or portion thereof for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or eating
therein that does not comply with the applicable provisions of the city's Fire
Prevention Code and the following additional standards for safety.
   (2)   Flammable liquid prohibited. No residence building or rooming unit
shall be located within a building containing a business that handles,
dispenses or stores flammable liquids with a flash point of 110°F (43°C) as
defined by the National Board of Fire Underwriters.
   (3)   Exits. Compliance with the exit provisions of the Building Code is
required.
   (4)   Cooking and heating equipment. All cooking and heating equipment,
components, accessories and devices shall be maintained free from leaks and
obstructions and kept functioning properly to be free from fire, health and
accident hazards. All installations and repairs shall be made in accordance
with the regulations of the Building Code.
§ 1009.27 OCCUPANT RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (1)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep that part of
the dwelling unit and premises which the occupant occupies, controls or uses in
a clean and sanitary condition.
   (2)   Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall dispose
of all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner.
   (3)   Use and operation of supplied plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a
dwelling unit shall keep the supplied plumbing fixtures clean and sanitary and
shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and
operation of the fixtures.
   (4)   Plumbing fixtures furnished by occupant. Every plumbing fixture
furnished by the occupant shall be properly installed and maintained in good
working condition. The fixtures shall be clean, sanitary and free from defects,
leaks or obstructions.
§ 1009.28 ROOMING HOUSES.
   (1)   Compliance. No person shall operate a rooming house or shall occupy or
let to another for occupancy a rooming unit in a rooming house except in
compliance with the provisions of this division.
   (2)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities.
      (a)   At least one water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
shall be supplied for each four rooms within a rooming house wherever these
facilities are shared.
      (b)   The facilities shall be properly connected to an approved water and
sewer system and shall be maintained in good working condition.
      (c)   Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with
hot and cold water at all times.
      (d)   All shared facilities shall be located within the residence
building being served and shall be directly accessible by all persons sharing
the facilities from a common hallway or passageway.
   (3)    Bathroom enclosures. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin
and bathtub or shower required by §
1009.23 shall be located within the rooming house in a room or area that:
      (a)   Affords privacy and is separate from the habitable rooms; and
      (b)   Is accessible from a common hall without going outside the rooming
house.
   (4)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one person shall contain at least 70 square feet of floor
area. Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by two or more persons shall
contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant.
   (5)   Bed linens and towels. The operator of a rooming house shall change
the supplied bed linens and towels at least once a week and prior to the
letting of any room to another occupant. The operator shall be responsible for
the maintenance of all supplied bedding in a clean and sanitary manner.
   (6)   Window coverings. The window of each rooming unit shall be supplied
with shades, drawn drapes or other devices or materials that will afford
privacy to the occupant of the rooming unit when properly used.
   (7)   Responsibilities of operator. The operator of a rooming house shall be
responsible for:
      (a)   The sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings and
every other part of the rooming house; and
      (b)   The sanitary maintenance of the entire premises when the entire
structure or building is leased or occupied by the operator.
LICENSES
§ 1009.40 REQUIRED.
   No person shall allow to be occupied or let to another for occupancy units
in a multiple dwelling for which a license has not been granted by the city.
There shall be two types of licenses: regular and provisional.
§ 1009.41 APPLICATION.
   (1)   Before any license shall be issued or renewed, the owner shall
complete an application. The following persons shall be authorized to sign and
submit the application:
      (a)   If the owner is a natural person, by the owner thereof;
      (b)   If the owner is a corporation, by an officer thereof; and
      (c)   If the owner is a partnership, by a partner thereof.
   (2)   Application shall be made on forms prescribed by the city and shall
include:
      (a)   The name and address of the owner of the multiple dwellings;
      (b)   The name and address of any operator or agent actively managing the
multiple dwelling;
      (c)   If the operator or agent is a business entity, the application
shall include the names, telephone numbers and addresses of individuals who
will be involved in the management, together with a description of the scope of
services and manner of delivering these services by the manager;
      (d)   If the registrant is a partnership, the name and address of all
partners;
      (e)   If the registrant is corporation, the name and address of all
officers;
      (f)   If the multiple dwelling is being sold on a contract for deed, the
name and address of the vendees;
      (g)   The legal address of the multiple dwelling;
      (h)   The number of toilet and bath facilities shared by the occupants of
two or more units;
      (i)   The number and kinds of units within the multiple dwelling;
      (j)   The height of the multiple dwelling in stories;
      (k)   The construction of the exterior of the building;
      (l)   The total floor area of the building;
      (m)   The total area provided on premises for off-street parking; and
      (n)   An application for a provisional license shall include information
as required by §
1009.47.
§ 1009.42 LICENSE FEES.
   The license fees shall be as provided in the fee schedule ordinance. The
license fees shall be established by resolution.
   (1)   A license fee shall be collected for each unit in a multiple dwelling.
   (2)   If an application is made less than 45 days before the beginning date
of the license period applied for then the fee shall be accompanied by an
additional amount equal to 100% of the license fee. The additional amount shall
be a penalty for a late application.
   (3)   The license fee will be reduced for participation in the Safer Tenants
and Rentals Program at the following rates:
 
Certification           Rate
Level "C" certification 25%
Level "B" certification 50%
Level "A" certification 75%
 
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1009.43 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   The city shall issue a license if the building and the application are found
to be in compliance with the provisions of this chapter provided that all real
estate taxes and municipal utility bills for the premises have been paid. Real
estate taxes will not be considered to be due and unpaid for purposes of this
section while a proper and timely appeal of taxes is pending and is diligently
pursued to completion by the landowner.
§ 1009.44 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   The licensee shall post the receipted copy of the license in a conspicuous
public corridor or hallway or lobby of the licensed multiple dwelling. The
license shall be displayed in a frame with a glass covering.
§ 1009.45 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   The license period shall commence either on March 1 or September 1. A
regular license will be issued for a period of one year. A provisional license
shall be issued for a period of six months.
§ 1009.46 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A license is transferable for a fee to any person who has actually acquired
legal ownership of licensed premises. The transfer shall be effective for the
unexpired portion of the license period provided that the transfer application
is filed with the city prior to the actual change of legal ownership and the
transferee is not disqualified from holding the license due to prior revocation
or suspension of a license. The license shall terminate upon failure to apply
for a transfer prior to change of legal ownership. The fee for the transfer
shall be established by resolution.
§ 1009.47 PROVISIONAL LICENSE.
   (1)   Police or fire calls. Licensed multiple dwellings that have generated
an average of over 0.5 police or fire calls per dwelling unit in a preceding
six month period as specified in this section shall be eligible only for a
provisional license.
      (a)   Police and fire calls that are counted in determining whether a
provisional license is required include the following types of calls or events:
         1.   Calls or events listed in division (1)(a)2. and (1)(a)3. below
and §
1009.49(1);
         2.   Calls or events categorized as part one crimes in the Uniform
Crime Reporting System, including homicide, rape, robbery, aggravated assault,
burglary, theft, auto theft and arson;
         3.   Calls or events categorized by the Public Safety Department:
miscellaneous juvenile status crimes, liquor offenses or curfew violations;
disturbing the peace or harassing communications; property damage; criminal
damage to property or trespass; domestic incidents; fire alarms; public
disturbance or disorderly conduct; loud party or noise complaints; disorderly
juveniles; assault in the fifth degree or non-domestic related assaults. The
Director of Public Safety shall maintain for public inspection a description of
the coding system and a list of the codes and crimes included within each of
these categories of calls or events; and
         4.   The Director of Public Safety may determine that multiple
incidents shall be counted as a single call in appropriate cases.
      (b)   Calls will not be counted for purposes of determining whether a
provisional license is required where the victim and suspect are "family or
household members" as defined in the Domestic Abuse Act, M.S. § 518B.01, Subd.
2(b), as it may be amended from time to time and where there is a report of
"domestic abuse" as defined in the Domestic Abuse Act, M.S. § 518B.01, Subd. 2
(a), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (c)   The period of time used to determine whether a provisional license
is required is the six- month period ending two months before the commencement
of the license term, either December 31 or June 30.
      (d)   The City will provide by mail to each licensee a monthly report of
calls described in division (1)(a)2. and (1)(a)3. above and §
1009.49(1).
   (2)   Resident manager. Provisional licenses shall only be issued for
facilities that have a manager or managers certified in accordance with §
1009.48. Managers must be resident managers or on site managers who are on site
or available 24 hours a day.
   (3)   Mitigation plan. The applicant for a provisional license must submit a
mitigation plan for the license period for review to the City Council. The
mitigation plan shall describe steps proposed by the applicant to reduce the
number of police and fire calls described in division (1) above to a level that
qualifies for a regular license. The mitigation plan may include steps such as:
      (a)   Changes in tenant screening procedures; and
      (b)   Changes in lease terms, security measures, rules and regulations
for tenant conduct and security personnel.
   (4)   Decision of City Council. The application and a proposed mitigation
plan will be presented to the City Council together with a disposition
recommendation by the City Administrator. After giving the applicant an
opportunity to be heard and present evidence, the City Council shall approve,
disapprove or approve with conditions the application and the mitigation plan.
If the City Council disapproves an application and mitigation plan or approves
it with conditions, it shall state its reasons for so doing in writing.
   (5)   Monthly reports. The licensee shall comply with the approved
mitigation plan. No later than the tenth day after each calendar month, the
licensee shall mail or deliver to the city a written report describing all
steps taken in furtherance of the mitigation plan during the preceding month.
§ 1009.48 MANAGER CERTIFICATION.
   (1)   To qualify for a provisional license, the applicant must provide and
maintain at least one resident manager or on site managers who are on site or
available 24 hours a day and who are certified by this section.
   (2)   A person may be certified as a resident or on site manager after
successfully completing the training program provided or specified by the city.
   (3)   A license may be granted to an applicant who does not currently have a
certified resident or on site manager, and a license may continue in effect on
the departure of a certified resident manager, on the condition that a resident
manager or on site manager shall register for and complete the training program
as promptly as is reasonably possible.
§ 1009.49 CONDUCT ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   (1)   Disorderly premises. The licensee shall be responsible for ensuring
that persons occupying the licensed premises conduct themselves in a manner as
not to cause the premises to be disorderly. For purposes of this section, a
premises is disorderly at which any of the following activities occur:
      (a)   Violation of laws relating to the possession of controlled
substances as defined in M.S. § 152.01, Subd. 4., as it may be amended from
time to time;
      (b)   Violation of M.S. § 609.72 (Disorderly Conduct), as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (c)   The unlawful sale of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor;
      (d)   Violation of laws relating to gambling;
      (e)   Violation of laws relating to prostitution as defined in M.S. §
609.321, Subd. 9, as it may be amended from time to time, or acts relating to
prostitution;
      (f)   Unlawful use or possession of a firearm or weapon in violation of
M.S. §§ 609.66, Subd. la, 609.67 or 624.713, as they may be amended from time
to time;
      (g)   Violation of M.S. § 609.506 (False Info to Police Officer), as it
may be amended from time to time;
      (h)   Violation of M.S. § 609.705 (Unlawful Assembly), as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (i)   Violation of M.S. § 609.71 (Riot), as it may be amended from time
to time;
      (j)   Violation of M.S. § 609.713 (Terrorist Threat), as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (k)   Violation of M.S. § 609.715 (Presence at Unlawful Assembly), as it
may be amended from time to time; and
      (l)   Violation of M.S. § 609.487 (Fleeing, Other Than Vehicle), as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (2)   Enforcement authority. The City Administrator shall be responsible for
enforcement and administration of this chapter. Authority to take any action
authorized by this chapter may be delegated to the City Administrator's
authorized designee.
   (3)   Notice of violation. Upon determination by the city that a licensed
premises was used in a disorderly manner notice of the violation shall be given
to the licensee. The notice shall include a directive for the licensee to take
steps to prevent further violations. The disorderly manner shall be as defined
in division (9) below.
   (4)   Second instance. If a second instance of disorderly use of the
licensed premises occurs within three months of an incident for which a notice
was provided as specified in division (3) above, the city shall notify the
licensee of the violation and shall also require the licensee to submit a
written report of the actions taken and proposed to be taken by the licensee to
prevent further disorderly use of the premises. This written report shall be
submitted to the city within five days of receipt of the notice of disorderly
use of the premises and shall detail all actions taken by the licensee in
response to all notices of disorderly use of the premises within the preceding
three months.
   (5)   Third instance. If a third instance of disorderly use of the licensed
premises occurs within three months after any two previous instances of
disorderly use for which notices were provided as specified in divisions (3)
and (4) above, the rental dwelling license for the premises may be denied,
revoked, suspended or not renewed. An action to deny, revoke, suspend or not
renew a license under this division shall be initiated by the city by giving
written notice to the licensee of a hearing before the City Council to consider
the denial, revocation, suspension or non-renewal. The written notice shall
specify all violations and shall state the date, time, place and purpose of the
hearing. The hearing shall be held no less than ten days and no more than 30
days after giving the notice.
   (6)   Action of the City Council. Following the hearing, the City Council
may deny, revoke, suspend or decline to renew the license for all or any part
or parts of the licensed premises or may grant a license upon terms and
conditions as it deems necessary to accomplish the purposes of this section.
   (7)   Instances defined. For purposes of this section, second and third
instances of disorderly use shall be those which:
      (a)   Occur at the same rental unit;
      (b)   Involve tenants at the same rental unit;
      (c)   Involve guests or invitees at the same rental unit;
      (d)   Involve guests or invitees of the same tenant; or
      (e)   Involve the same tenant.
   (8)   Eviction proceedings. No adverse license action shall be imposed where
the instance of disorderly use of the licensed premises occurred during the
pendency of eviction proceedings (unlawful detainer) or within 30 days of
notice given by the licensee to a tenant to vacate the premises where the
disorderly use was related to conduct by that tenant or by other occupants or
guests of the tenant's unit. Eviction proceedings shall not be a bar to adverse
license action, however, unless they are diligently pursued by the licensee.
Further, an action to deny, revoke, suspend or not renew a license based upon
violations of this section may be postponed or discontinued at any time if it
appears that the licensee has taken appropriate measures which will prevent
further instances of disorderly use.
   (9)   Evidence of disorderly manner. A determination that the licensed
premises have been used in a disorderly manner as described in division (1)
above shall be made upon substantial evidence to support this determination. It
shall not be necessary that criminal charges be brought in order to support a
determination of disorderly use nor shall the fact or dismissal or acquittal of
a criminal charge operate as a bar to adverse license action under this
section.
   (10)   Serving of notice. All notices given by the city under this section
shall be personally served on the licensee, sent by registered mail to the
licensee's last known address, or, if neither method of service effects notice,
by posting the notice in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
    (11)   Council action not exclusive. Enforcement actions provided in this
section shall not be exclusive. The City Council may take any action with
respect to a licensee, a tenant or the licensed premises as is authorized by
the city code or state law.
§ 1009.50 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, DENIAL AND NON-RENEWAL OF A LICENSE.
   (1)   Reason for action. The Council may revoke, suspend, deny or decline to
renew any license issued under this chapter upon any of the following grounds:
      (a)   False statements on any application or other information or report
required by this chapter to be given by the applicant or licensee;
      (b)   Failure to pay any application, penalty, re-inspection or
reinstatement fee required by this chapter and resolution;
      (c)   Failure to correct deficiencies noted in notices of violation in
the time specified in the notice;
      (d)   Failure to comply with the provisions of an approved mitigation
plan in the case of provisional licenses; and
      (e)   Any other violation of this chapter.
   (2)   Applicable sections. Revocation, suspension and non-renewal may be
brought under either this section or §
1009.49(6), or both.
   (3)   Regular license. A regular license shall be revoked, if at midterm, or
not renewed, if at the end of a term, upon a finding that the premises are only
eligible for a provisional license as provided in §
1009.47.
   (4)   Written notice. A decision to revoke, suspend, deny or not renew a
license shall be preceded by written notice to the applicant or licensee of the
alleged grounds therefore and the applicant or licensee will be given an
opportunity for a hearing before the City Council before final action to
revoke, suspend, deny or not renew a license.
   (5)   Action of City Council. The City Council shall give due regard to the
frequency and seriousness of violations, the ease with which the violations
could have been cured or avoided and good faith efforts to comply and shall
issue a decision to deny, not renew, suspend or revoke a license only upon
written findings. The City Council may suspend or revoke a license or not renew
a license for part or all of a facility.
   (6)   Reinstatement of license. Upon a decision to revoke, deny or not renew
a license, no new application for the same facility will be accepted for a
period of time specified in the written decision of the City Council, not
exceeding one year. The new applications must be accompanied by a reinstatement
fee, as specified by ordinance, in addition to all other fees required by this
chapter.
   (7)   No new rentals. A written decision to revoke, suspend, deny or not
renew a license or application shall specify the part or parts of the facility
to which it applies. Thereafter, and until a license is reissued or reinstated,
no rental units becoming vacant in such part or parts of the facility may be
re-let or occupied. Revocation, suspension or non-renewal of a license shall
not excuse the owner from compliance with all terms of this chapter for as long
as any units in the facility are occupied.
   (8)   Failure to comply. Failure to comply with all terms of this chapter
during the term of revocation, suspension or non-renewal is a misdemeanor and
grounds for extension of the term of the revocation or suspension or
continuation of non-renewal, or for a decision not to reinstate the license,
notwithstanding any limitations on the period of suspension, revocation or non-
renewal specified in the City Council's written decision or in division (6)
above.
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1009.51 NO RETALIATION.
   No licensee shall evict, threaten to evict or take any other punitive action
against any tenant by reason of good faith calls made by the tenant to law
enforcement agencies relating to criminal activity, suspected criminal
activity, suspicious occurrences or public safety concerns. This section shall
not prohibit the eviction of tenants from a dwelling unit for unlawful conduct
of a tenant or invitee or violation of any rules, regulations or lease terms
other than a prohibition against contacting law enforcement agencies.
§ 1009.52 RECYCLING SERVICES REQUIRED.
   Owners of multiple dwellings licensed under this article must provide
recycling collection services to all residents of the dwelling. The collection
services must include acceptance of all materials designated as recyclable.
Licensees must ensure that all recyclables are delivered to a recycling
facility for the purpose of recycling. Licensees must provide information
regarding recycling collection services as required by the city.
SECURITY DEVICES
§ 1009.60 KEY BOXES.
   (1)   Purpose. In cases of fire, medical or public safety emergencies, it is
vital that police officers be able to gain access to locked areas of multiple
dwelling buildings whether or not a caretaker is present. In an emergency
response situation there is insufficient time to locate a person serving as a
key holder. Use of key boxes will minimize the damage to doors and windows and
provide a more efficient means of emergency access to locked buildings by
public safety personnel, thereby enhancing the safety and security of the
building's occupants.
   (2)   Requirements. Where access to a multiple dwelling building is
restricted because of secured entrances, the Department of Public Safety is
authorized to require a key box to be properly installed and maintained in an
accessible location as close as possible to the main entrance door. The key box
must not be located at a height over six feet above the finished grade but high
enough to prevent water and snow from entering or blocking it. The key box
installation must be approved by the Department of Public Safety. The key box
shall be of an approved type and shall contain keys to gain access as required
by the Director of Public Safety.
EFFECTIVE DATE
§ 1009.70 EFFECTIVE DATE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be effective 30 days after publication
for all new construction. All existing buildings within the city to which this
chapter applies must be in compliance with its terms within six months of its
effective date.
CHAPTER 1010: SIGNS
Section
   
1010.001   Purpose, intent and findings
   
1010.002   Definitions
   
1010.003   Administration and enforcement
   
1010.004   Non-conforming signs
   
1010.005   Prohibited signs
   
1010.006   General regulations applicable to all zoning districts
   
1010.007   Temporary signs
   
1010.008   Zoning district regulations
   
1010.009   Substitution clause
   
1010.010   Severability
§ 1010.001 PURPOSE, INTENT AND FINDINGS.
   (1)   Purpose and intent. It is not the purpose or intent of this sign
chapter to regulate the message displayed on any sign; nor is it the purpose or
intent to regulate any building design or any display not defined as a sign, or
any sign with a message that cannot reasonably be viewed from off the property
on which the sign is displayed. Rather, the sign chapter is intended to
establish a comprehensive and balanced system of sign control that accommodates
the need for a well-maintained, safe and attractive community, and the need for
effective communications. It is the intent of this chapter to promote the
health, safety, general welfare, aesthetics, and image of the community by
regulating signs that are intended to communicate to the public and to use
signs that meet the city’s goals by authorizing:
      (a)   Permanent signs which establish a high standard of aesthetics;
      (b)   Signs which are compatible with their surroundings;
      (c)   Signs which are designed, constructed, installed and maintained in
a manner that does not adversely impact public safety or unduly distract
motorists;
      (d)   Signs which are large enough to convey the intended message and to
help citizens find their way to intended destinations;
      (e)   Signs that are proportioned to the scale of, and are
architecturally compatible with, principal structures;
      (f)   Permanent signs which give preference to the on-premise owner or
occupant; and
      (g)   Temporary commercial speech signs and off-premise signs that
provide an opportunity for special events while restricting signs which create
continuous visual clutter and hazards at public right-of-way intersections.
   (2)   Findings. The City of Lino Lakes finds it is necessary for the
promotion and preservation of the public health, safety, welfare and aesthetics
of the community that the construction, location, size and maintenance of signs
be controlled. Further, the city finds:
      (a)   Permanent and temporary signs have a direct impact on and
relationship to the image of the community;
      (b)   The manner of installation, location and maintenance of signs
affects the public health, safety, welfare and aesthetics of the community;
      (c)   An opportunity for viable identification of community businesses
and institutions must be established;
      (d)   The safety of motorists, cyclists, pedestrians and other users of
public streets and property is affected by the number, size, location and
appearance of signs that unduly divert the attention of drivers;
      (e)   Installation of signs suspended from, projecting over or placed on
the tops of buildings, walks or other structures may constitute a hazard during
periods of high winds and an obstacle to effective firefighting and other
emergency service;
      (f)   Uncontrolled and unlimited signs adversely impact the image and
aesthetic attractiveness of the community and thereby undermine economic value
and growth;
      (g)   Uncontrolled and unlimited signs, particularly temporary signs
which are commonly located within or adjacent to public right-of-way or are
located at driveway/street intersections, result in roadside clutter and
obstruction of views of oncoming traffic. This creates a hazard to drivers and
pedestrians and also adversely impacts a logical flow of information;
      (h)   Commercial speech signs are generally incompatible with residential
uses and should be strictly limited in residential zoning districts;
      (i)   The right to express noncommercial opinions in any zoning district
must be protected, subject to reasonable restrictions on size, height, location
and number; and
      (j)   Light pollution creates negative impacts on the community,
particularly in residential and rural areas.
(Am. Ord. 09-14, passed 11-10-2014; Am. Ord. 01-23, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 1010.002 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms, when used in this sign chapter, shall have
the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   BANNER. A temporary sign made of cloth, flexible plastic or other fabric,
except that flags shall not be considered BANNERS.
   COMMERCIAL SPEECH. Speech advertising a business, profession, commodity,
service or entertainment.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGNS. A sign providing directional information about the use or
uses on the property where the sign is located.
   DYNAMIC DISPLAY. Any characteristics of a sign that appear to have movement
or that appear to change, however frequently, caused by any method other than
physically removing and replacing the sign or its components, whether the
apparent movement or change is in the display, the sign structure itself or any
other component of the sign. This includes, but is not limited to, a sign
display that incorporates a technology or method allowing the image on the sign
face to change without having to physically or mechanically replace the sign
face or its components. This also includes, but is not limited to, any
rotating, revolving, moving, flashing, blinking or animated display, and any
display that incorporates rotating panels, LED lights manipulated through
digital input, “digital ink,” or any other method or technology that allows the
sign face to present a series of images or displays. This does not include
digital signs with fixed content that changes less than once per hour, provided
that none of the content displayed appears to have movement or to otherwise
change during the minimum one-hour display period.
   FACADE. That portion of any exterior elevation on a building from grade to
top of the parapet, wall, or eaves and the entire width of the building
elevation.
   FLAG. Any cloth, flexible plastic or fabric containing distinctive colors,
patterns or symbols that is attached along one side to one pole or attached to
a rope on one pole that allows for raising and lowering the flag.
   FLASHING SIGN. An illuminated sign on which the illumination is not kept
constant in intensity or color at all times, when the sign is in use.
   GROUND SIGN. Any freestanding sign supported by or upon standards, poles,
beams or other supports or foundation directly affixed to the ground.
   IDENTIFICATION OR NAMEPLATE SIGN. A sign that bears the name or address or
both of the business or the occupant of the building on which it is located.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign which has artificial light source directed upon it
or that has an interior light source.
   MARQUEE AND CANOPY SIGNS. Any message or identification which is permanently
affixed to a projection or extension of a building or structure, erected in a
manner as to provide shelter or cover over the approach to any entrance of a
store, building or place of public assembly.
   NONCOMMERCIAL SPEECH. Dissemination of messages not classified as commercial
speech which include, but are not limited to, messages concerning political,
religious, social, ideological, public service and informational topics.
   OFF-PREMISE SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a business, profession,
commodity, service or entertainment not exclusively related to the premises
where a sign is located or to which it is affixed.
   ON-PREMISE SIGN. A sign that directs attention to a business or profession
or to a commodity, service, or entertainment sold or offered upon the premises
where such a sign is located.
   PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire or string,
usually in series, designed to move in the wind. Sometimes called STRINGER.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A temporary sign that is designed or intended to be moved or
transported that is parked or placed for the primary purpose of displaying the
sign to a public right-of-way. Examples of portable signs include:
      (1)   Signs on trailers or on wheels, with or without text and/or
graphics;
      (2)   Commercial signs mounted on a vehicle when the vehicle is parked
and visible from a public right-of-way, except signs that are one square foot
in area or less.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A permanent sign affixed to an exterior wall or roof of a
building and which is perpendicular to the building wall.
   PYLON SIGN. A permanent, free standing ground sign erected upon a post or
posts.
   SANDWICH BOARD. A temporary on-premise sign constructed to form an “A” or a
tent-like shape, placed in front of a business.
   SIGN. Any writing, pictorial presentation, number, illustration or
decoration, or other communication device, whether painted, posted, printed,
affixed or constructed, including associated brackets, braces, supports, wires
and structures, that is used to announce, direct attention to, identify,
inform, communicate, or otherwise make anything known and that is visible from
off the property on which the sign is located.
   SIGN AREA. The entire area of a temporary or permanent sign within a single
continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of the actual sign surface,
but excluding any structural or supporting elements such as uprights, aprons,
poles, beams or standards. For double-faced signs, the sign area shall be
computed on the basis of one face of the sign.
   SIGN HEIGHT. Height shall be measured from grade to the uppermost points or
level of sign structure.
   TEMPORARY SIGNS. A sign which is designed or intended to be displayed for a
short period of time and is not permanently installed. This includes items such
as banners, beacons, sandwich signs, balloons, or other air or gas filled
figures.
   WALL SIGN. A permanent sign attached to or erected against the wall of a
building or structure with the exposed face to the sign in a plane
approximately parallel to the face of the wall and extending not more than 15
inches from the building wall face.
(Am. Ord. 09-14, passed 11-10-2014; Am. Ord. 01-23, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 1010.003 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (1)   Permit required. No temporary or permanent sign shall be erected,
altered, reconstructed, or moved in the city without first securing a permit
from the city, unless this chapter specifically states otherwise. The permit
holder shall be responsible for all of the requirements of this chapter,
including the liability for expense of removal and maintenance incurred by the
city.
   (2)   Sign permit fees shall be as specified in the city fee schedule.
Double permit fees shall be assessed if the permit is pulled after the sign is
placed.
   (3)   Repairs.
      (a)   All signs shall be maintained in good condition and the areas
around them kept free from debris, bushes, high weeds and from anything else
which would be an eyesore or nuisance. All signs must be maintained to prevent
the sign from becoming unkempt in appearance. When any ground sign is removed,
the entire surrounding area shall be cleared of all debris and unsightly
projections and protrusions.
      (b)   Any sign located in the city which may now be or hereafter become
out of order, rotten or unsafe and every sign which shall hereafter be erected,
altered, resurfaced, reconstructed or moved contrary to the provisions of this
sign chapter, shall be removed or otherwise properly secured in accordance with
the terms of this sign chapter by the owners of the sign or by the owners of
the property on which the sign is located, upon receipt of notice from the city
to do so. No rotten or other unsafe sign shall be repaired or rebuilt except in
accordance with the provisions of this sign chapter and upon proper permit
issued by the issuing authority.
   (4)   Removal. In the event of the failure of the owner or person or entity
having control of any sign or the owner of the property on which the sign is
located to remove or repair the sign within 60 days after the use is
terminated, a notice shall be given and the sign may be removed by the city at
the expense of the owner or manager of the sign or the owner of the property
upon which the sign stands.
   (5)   Violations. Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Each day of the violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Am. Ord. 09-14, passed 11-10-2014; Am. Ord. 01-23, passed 3-27-2023)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1010.004 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (1)   Nonconforming signs. It is recognized that signs exist within the
zoning districts that were lawful before this sign chapter was enacted, which
would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this chapter or
future amendments. It is the intention of this sign chapter that nonconforming
signs shall be allowed to continue to exist, but they shall not be enlarged
upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as the grounds for adding other signs
or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district. It is further the intent of
this sign chapter to permit legal nonconforming signs existing on the effective
date of this sign chapter, or amendments thereto, to continue as legal
nonconforming signs provided the signs are safe, are maintained so as not to be
unsightly, and have not been abandoned or removed subject to the following
provisions:
      (a)   No sign shall be enlarged or altered in a way which increases its
nonconformity;
      (b)   Should the sign or sign structure be destroyed by any means to an
extent greater than 50% of its replacement cost and no building permit has been
applied for within 180 days of when the property was damaged, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter;
      (c)   Should the sign or sign structure be moved for any reason for any
distance whatsoever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the
zoning district in which it is located after it is moved;
      (d)   No existing sign devoted to a use not permitted by the zoning code
in the zoning district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended or
moved except in changing the sign to a sign permitted in the zoning district in
which is it located; and
      (e)   When a structure loses its nonconforming status, all signs devoted
to the structure shall be removed and all signs painted directly on the
structure shall be repainted in a neutral color or a color which will harmonize
with the structure.
(Am. Ord. 09-14, passed 11-10-2014; Am. Ord. 01-23, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 1010.005 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following types of signs are prohibited in all districts:
   (1)   Off-premise signs as defined in this chapter, except as otherwise
permitted in §§
1010.006 or
1010.007.
   (2)   Signs within public right-of-way, affixed to public structures or
public utility poles or boxes or other public equipment, or on other public
property except signs erected or placed by a government entity with proper
authority or control. A special exception may be granted by the City Council if
road improvements or other public projects include the elimination of an access
to a private property. In these cases, a sign giving directions to the new
access may be allowed in the right-of-way.
   (3)   Signs painted on, attached to or affixed to any trees, rocks or other
similar organic or inorganic natural matter.
   (4)   Any sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles any official traffic control device or railroad sign
or signal, or emergency vehicle signal, or which attempts to direct the
movement of traffic or which hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official traffic-control device or railroad sign or
signal. Further, no sign shall be installed, which by reason of position, shape
or color would conflict with proper function or interpretation of any traffic
sign or signal.
   (5)   Signs with revolving beacons, flashing signs, zip flashers or similar
lighted devices.
   (6)   Signs that obstruct any door, fire escape, stairway or other access of
any building or structure.
   (7)   Portable signs, except as otherwise permitted in §
1010.007.
   (8)   Projecting signs that extend over public property, except with an
encroachment agreement, which the city may agree to at the city’s discretion.
   (9)   Roof signs including signs mounted on a roof surface or projecting
above the roof line of a structure if either attached to the structure or
cantilevered over the structure.
   (10)   Abandoned signs or signs, other than temporary off-premise signs,
that advertise an activity, business, product or service no longer available on
the premises on which the sign is located.
   (11)   Pennants or stringers.
   (12)   Any sign displaying obscene, indecent, immoral, or offensive content.
   (13)   Any signs not specifically allowed by this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 09-14, passed 11-10-2014; Am. Ord. 01-23, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 1010.006 GENERAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (1)   Signs erected or placed by a government entity with proper authority
or control within a public right-of-way, affixed to public structures or public
utility poles or boxes or other public equipment, or on other public property
are allowed in all zoning districts without a permit and are not subject to the
limits or restrictions stated in this sign chapter.
   (2)   All permanent signs shall be constructed in conformance with the
provisions of the Minnesota State Building Code, as amended, and
Chapter 1003 of City Code.
   (3)   Signs in windows in the interior of buildings are exempt from this
chapter, except that no more than 75% of any window may be covered by signage
and no dynamic display signs shall be allowed to be displayed in windows. No
signs may be attached to the exterior of windows.
   (4)   "No hunting” and "No trespassing" signs are allowed as regulated by
M.S. § 97B.001, as it may be amended from time to time. No permit is required.
   (5)   Illuminated signs are allowed in all zoning districts. The source of
light for any illuminated sign must be controlled so as not to shine directly
upon or light adjacent property or public right-of-way. Signs that are not
internally illuminated shall have light fixtures and sources screened from
view.
   (6)   Dynamic display signs. No more than 32 square feet of the allowable
sign area provided for in §
1010.008 shall be used for dynamic display signs, except that in Rural and
Residential zoning districts dynamic display signs shall only be allowed for
non-residential uses. The minimum display period for any message shall be eight
seconds. No dynamic display signs may be placed in windows.
   (7)   Signs, including individual letters and symbols, must be detachable
from the building and attached to the exterior building surface by adhesive or
mechanical fasteners. Signs shall not be painted directly on any exterior
building surface.
   (8)   Signs in election years. In state general election years, the
provisions of M.S. § 211B.045, as amended, shall apply. Notwithstanding other
provisions of this chapter regulating the allowed size or number of signs, in
city election years all temporary noncommercial signs of any size may be posted
in any number without a permit from 30 days before the city election until ten
days following the city election. Other requirements of this chapter, including
those regarding the location of signs, shall continue to apply.
   (9)   Directional signs up to four square feet are allowed up to six feet
above grade without a permit.
   (10)   The exposed uprights, superstructure or back side of all signs must
be a neutral color such as light blues, grays, greens or browns, unless the
part of the sign is integral to the overall design of the sign.
   (11)   Multi-occupancy business and industrial buildings. When a single
principle building is devoted to three or more businesses or industrial
tenants, a comprehensive sign plan for the entire structure shall be submitted
and shall be of sufficient scope and detail to permit a determination as to
whether or not the plan is consistent with the following regulations. The plan
shall be subject to the approval of the City Council. No permit shall be issued
for an individual tenant except upon a determination that it is consistent with
the approved comprehensive sign plan.
      (a)   The maximum individual tenant sign sizes shall not exceed the
maximum provisions for single occupancy structures in the same zoning district.
      (b)   Multiple occupancy structures may display a unified ground sign
consistent with the applicable district provisions. At least 25% of the ground
sign must identify the entire site to assist with navigation to the site.
Individual tenants shall not display ground signs.
      (c)   Except as provided in this chapter, individual tenants of multiple
occupancy structures shall not display separate wall signs unless the tenants'
business has an exclusive exterior entrance. The number of signs shall be
limited to one per building facade that the tenant occupies, and each sign
shall be limited to the maximum wall size sign permitted per building facade
for single occupancy structures in the same zoning district.
      (d)   In any multiple occupancy structure qualifying as a mall type
shopping center, one sign not exceeding 50 square feet shall be permitted for
each common public entrance and shall be located within 50 feet of the common
public entrance being served.
   (12)   Street addresses required to comply with address ordinances or
building codes do not require a sign permit.
   (13)   Flags.
      (a)   Non-commercial flags are not regulated by this sign chapter.
      (b)   One commercial flag is allowed per property without a permit.
Additional commercial flags shall be regulated as permanent signage, subject to
the permitting requirements and sign area limits set by this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 09-14, passed 11-10-2014; Am. Ord. 01-23, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 1010.007 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (1)   Temporary signs for residential uses. Except as set forth in this
chapter, all residential uses in Rural and Residential zoning districts shall
be allowed one temporary on-premise or noncommercial sign up to six square feet
placed at least ten feet from the lot line. This sign shall be in the form of a
ground sign. Such sign may be placed without a permit and there is no time
limit for the display of such sign. Only one ground sign, whether temporary or
permanent, is permitted per residential use.
   (2)   Temporary signs for non-residential uses. All uses other than those
addressed in §
1010.007(1) shall be allowed temporary on-premise or noncommercial signs in
accordance with the following regulations:
      (a)   Except as specifically authorized by this sign chapter, one
temporary sign is allowed per property. The maximum number of temporary signs
for properties with multi-occupancy buildings shall be one per tenant, with no
more than three per property displayed at one time.
      (b)   Except as specifically authorized by this chapter, temporary signs
may not be displayed for more than a cumulative total of 90 days per calendar
year per property. Properties with multi-occupancy buildings shall be allowed
to display temporary signs for 90 days per calendar year per tenant.
      (c)   Except as specifically authorized by this chapter, temporary signs
may not be displayed without a permit and a single permit shall not exceed 30
consecutive days. Each permit must indicate the number of days and the dates
the sign is be displayed. Permits shall be signed by the property owner and/or
property manager and are not transferrable if the property comes under new
ownership, occupancy, or management. A fee and deposit at a level established
by ordinance adopted by the City Council is required. The deposit shall be
forfeited if the sign remains displayed past the date of removal indicated on
the permit. The city has the right to remove the temporary sign at the end of
the permit period and collect the cost of removal from the permit holder and/or
property owner.
      (d)   When a property is under construction or for sale, one temporary
sign is allowed to be displayed on each of the property's street frontages
without a permit, subject to the following restrictions:
         1.   Each such sign must be set back at least ten feet from the lot
line.
         2.   For properties that are under ten acres, the maximum size of each
such sign shall be 32 square feet. For properties that are ten acres or more,
the maximum size of each such sign shall be 100 square feet.
         3.   If construction or sale is of a single structure or parcel, any
signs displayed under this provision must be removed within 30 days after the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for or sale of the structure or parcel.
If it is of more than one structure or parcel, any sign displayed under this
provision must be removed 30 days after a certificate of occupancy is issued
for the last building or when all of the units or parcels are sold.
      (e)   No temporary sign shall have lighting or illumination of any sort.
      (f)   All temporary signs shall be subject to the requirements in Table
1:
Table 1. Temporary Sign Requirements
Sign Type Permit Required Size (square feet) Location Special Provisions
Table 1. Temporary Sign Requirements
Sign Type       Permit Required Size (square    Location        Special
                                feet)                           Provisions
                                                                Temporary
                                                                ground signs
                                                                shall be
                                                                allowed
                                                                consistent with
                                                                the sizes,
                                                                number, and
                                                                location limits
                                                                set forth in
                                                                Table 2 based
                                                                on the zoning
                                                                district and in
                                                                lieu of
                                                                permanent
                                                                ground signs
                                                                allowed
Ground signs    Required        See Table 2.    See Table 2.    thereunder. The
                                                                total number
                                                                and size of
                                                                temporary and/
                                                                or permanent
                                                                ground signs
                                                                shall not
                                                                exceed the
                                                                limits set in
                                                                Table 2. The
                                                                maximum height
                                                                of a temporary
                                                                ground sign
                                                                shall not
                                                                exceed ten feet
                                                                in height as
                                                                measured from
                                                                the ground.
                                                All 4 corners
                                32 square feet  must be
Banner          Required        maximum sign    attached to the N/A
                                area.           principal
                                                building on the
                                                site.
                                32 square feet  Must be set
Portable signs  Required        maximum sign    back a minimum  N/A
                                area.           of five feet
                                                from lot line.
                                                                Sign permit is
                                                Must be in      valid as long
                                                front of space  as the permit
                                                occupied by the holder is in
                                                permit holder.  operation at
                                                                the location.
                                                                Can only be
                                                No further than displayed
                                                ten feet from   during business
                                                door of the     hours; must be
                                                building        brought inside
                                                occupied by the when business
                                                permit holder.  closes each
                                                                day.
                                                Must maintain
                                                four feet clear
                                                area for
                                                pedestrian
                                                passage,
                                Six square feet including       Sandwich board
Sandwich boards Required        maximum sign    distance from   signs must be
                                area.           tables, opening of solid
                                                doors, planters construction,
                                                and the like.   of material
                                                                resistant to
                                                                weather,
                                                                resistant to
                                                                being knocked
                                                                over by wind.
                                                                Signs must
                                                                always be
                                                Must not be in  maintained in
                                                parking area.   good condition
                                                                and avoid a
                                                                shabby, unkempt
                                                                appearance.





Balloons or                     24 inches
inflatable      Not required    diameter        N/A             N/A
signs                           maximum sign
                                area.
 
   (3)   Temporary off-premise signs are allowed, without a permit, on any
property as follows:
      (a)   The sign must be set back at least five feet from a lot line;
      (b)   Only one temporary off-premise sign shall be allowed per property
and may be displayed only if the property is not displaying any other temporary
sign allowed under this section;
      (c)   Placement of the sign shall require permission from the underlying
property owner;
      (d)   The sign shall only be displayed between 6:00 a.m. on a Friday and
6:00 a.m. the following Monday; and
      (e)   The sign area shall be no larger than three (3) square feet in area
and no higher than four feet above the ground to which it is attached.
   (4)   In PUD, Planned Unit Development Districts, temporary signs are
regulated according to the standards for the corresponding land use and zoning
category as stated in this section, except that a sign plan with differing
requirements may be approved by the city.
(Ord. 01-23, passed 3-27-2023)
Cross-reference:
   City fee schedule, see §
218.01
§ 1010.008 ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (1)   Permanent signs in each zoning district must comply with the
requirements of Table 2 of this section:
   Table 2: Permanent Sign Requirements. All permanent signs shall be subject to the following
requirements:
   (a)   Rural and Residential Zoning Districts
               R Rural
Sign Type      R-X Rural Executive
               R-1, R-1X, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5 and R-6 Residential Districts Requirements    
Identification One per residence to assist with navigation.
or Nameplate   Maximum sign area of two square feet.
Signs          No sign permit is required.
               Each property with a residence may have one ground sign, temporary or permanent,
               without a permit. The maximum size is six square feet. This sign may be an on-
               premise sign or a sign containing only non-commercial speech. There is no time
Ground Signs   limit for such a sign.
               In addition, non-residential uses and licensed residential care facilities that
               are allowed by the Zoning Ordinance, and manufactured home parks in R-6 zones,
               may have one ground sign with a maximum sign area of 50 square feet. The maximum
               height of the sign shall be eight feet.
 
   Table 2: Permanent Sign Requirements (Cont’d).
   (a)   Rural and Residential Zoning Districts
Building Non-residential uses and licensed residential care facilities that are allowed by the
Wall     Zoning Ordinance, and manufactured home parks in R-6 zones, may have one wall sign on one
Signs    building, maximum 80 square feet.
Property No sign shall be closer than ten feet to any lot line.
Setback
   (b)   NB, Neighborhood Business Zoning District
         Single and
Sign     Double
Type     Occupancy    Multi-Occupancy Building Requirements
         Building
         Requirements
         One ground   If a single building has three or more businesses, it must comply with §
         sign of any  1010.006(11) and shall be limited to one ground sign.
         type:
         Maximum sign
         area of 50
Ground   square feet.
Signs    Maximum sign
         height of 30 Maximum sign area of 100 square feet.
         feet.
         No closer
         than 50 feet
         to another
         ground sign.
         Total wall sign area shall not exceed: 100 square feet or 10% of the building facade area,
         whichever is greater.   
         Wall signs
         are
         permitted on
         any facade
         that is not
         directly
         adjacent to  Sign for individual business only if business has separate entrance. Maximum
         a            sign size applies to that tenant’s wall area and signs are permitted only on a
Building residential  facade that is not directly adjacent to a residential zone. For purposes of
Wall     zone. For    this section a road shall constitute a separation of zones.
Signs    the purposes
         of this
         section a
         road shall
         constitute a
         separation
         of zones.
         No illuminated sign may face land zoned residential or guided residential by the
         comprehensive plan. For the purposes of this section a road shall constitute a separation
         of zones.
         No wall sign higher than parapet wall.
Property No sign may be closer than five feet to any lot line.
setback
 
   Table 2: Permanent Sign Requirements (Cont’d).
   (c)   LB, Limited Business Zoning District
         Single and
Sign     Double
Type     Occupancy    Multi- Occupancy Building Requirements                                         Motor Fuel Station Requirements
         Building
         Requirements
                                                                                                     One ground sign per frontage, which
         One ground   If single building has three or more businesses, it must comply with §        could be a pylon sign, meeting the
         sign of any  1010.006(11) and shall be limited to one ground sign of any type.              following requirements:
         type.                                                                                          Maximum sign area of 80 square
Ground                                                                                               feet.
Signs    Maximum sign
         area of 50   Maximum sign area of 100 square feet.                                             Maximum sign height of 45 feet
         square feet.                                                                                height.
         Maximum sign height of 30 feet      
         Shall not be located closer than 50 feet to another ground sign      
         Total wall sign area shall not exceed: 100 square feet or 10% of the building facade area, whichever is greater.
         Wall signs
         are
         permitted on
         any facade
         that is not
         directly
         adjacent to  Sign for individual business only if business has separate entrance. Maximum   Canopy signs must comply with
Building a            sign size applies to that tenant’s wall area and signs are permitted only on conditional use permit requirements
Wall     residential  facade that is not directly adjacent to a residential zone. For purposes of    in Zoning Ordinance.
Signs    zone. For    this section a road shall constitute a separation of zones.                     
        the purposes
         of this
         section a
         road shall
         constitute a
         separation
         of zones.
         No illuminated sign may face land zoned residential or guided residential by the comprehensive plan. For the purposes of this
         section a road shall constitute a separation of zones.       
         No wall sign higher than parapet wall.
Property No sign may be closer than five feet to any property line.
setback
 
 
   Table 2: Permanent Sign Requirements (Cont’d).
   (d)   GB, General Business, PSP, Public Semi-Public Zoning Districts
       Single and
Sign   Double
Type   Occupancy    Multi-Occupancy Building Requirements                                    Motor Fuel Station Requirements
       Building
       Requirements
       One ground                                                                            One ground sign per frontage, which could be a pylon sign, meeting the
       sign of any  If single building has three or more businesses, it must comply with §  following requirements:
       type per     1010.006(11).                                                               Maximum sign area 80 square feet.
       parcel.
                                                                                                Maximum sign height of 45 feet.
                                                                                             If between Town Center Parkway and Apollo Drive near the interchange of
       Ground signs may total two square feet per frontage foot up to a maximum sign area of Interstate 35W and Lake Drive or between 21st Avenue North and Otter Lake
Ground 200 square feet.                                                                      Road near the interchange of Interstate 35E and Main Street, one additional
Signs                                                                                        sign is allowed consistent with the following standards:
                                                                                             1. For a pylon sign:
                                                                                                a. Maximum sign area of 100 square feet.
       Maximum sign height of 40 feet.                                                    b. Maximum sign height of 65 feet.
                                                                                             2. For a ground sign:
                                                                                                a. Maximum sign area of 32 square feet. Maximum sign area of 32 square
       Shall not be located closer than 50 feet to another ground sign.                feet.
                                                                                                b. Maximum sign height of 30 feet.   
 
   Table 2: Permanent Sign Requirements (Cont’d).
   (d)   GB, General Business, PSP, Public Semi-Public Zoning Districts (Cont’d)
         Single and
Sign     Double                                                                                      Motor Fuel
Type     Occupancy    Multi-Occupancy Building Requirements                                          Station
         Building                                                                                    Requirements
         Requirements
         Total wall sign area shall not exceed: 100 square feet or 10% of the building facade area, whichever is
         greater.
         Wall signs                                                                                  Wall signs
         are                                                                                         are
         permitted on                                                                                permitted on
         any facade                                                                                  any facade
         that is not                                                                                 that is not
         directly                                                                                    directly
         adjacent to  Sign for individual business only if business has separate entrance. Maximum   adjacent to
Building a            sign size applies to that tenant’s wall area and signs are permitted only on a
Wall     residential  facade that is not directly adjacent to a residential zone. For purposes of    residential
Signs    zone. For    this section a road shall constitute a separation of zones.                    zone. For
         the purposes                                                                                the purposes
         of this                                                                                     of this
         section a                                                                                   section a
         road shall                                                                                  road shall
         constitute a                                                                                constitute a
         separation                                                                                  separation
         of zones.                                                                                   of zones.
         No illuminated sign may face land zoned residential or guided residential by the comprehensive plan. For
         the purposes of this section a road shall constitute a separation of zones.
         No wall sign higher than parapet wall.
Property    No sign may be closer than five feet to any lot line.
setback
 
   Table 2: Permanent Sign Requirements (Cont’d).
   (e)   LI, Light Industrial, GI, General Industrial, and BC, Business Campus Zoning Districts
Sign     Single and Double Occupancy Buildings                                           Multi-Occupancy Building Requirements
Type
         Individual sign allowed only if business is not part of integrated retail       If single building has three or more businesses,it must comply with §
Ground   complex.                                                                        1010.006(11).
Signs    Ground signs of any type totaling two square feet per frontage foot up to a maximum sign area of 200 square feet.
         Maximum sign height of 40 feet.   
         Shall not be closer than 50 feet to another ground sign.
         Total wall sign area shall not exceed:
            100 square feet; or 10% of the building facade area whichever is greater.
            Wall signs are permitted on any facade that is not directly adjacent to a    Sign for individual business only if business has separate entrance.
Building residential zone. For the purposes of this section a road shall constitute a    Maximum sign size applies to that tenant’s wall area and signs are permitted
Wall     separation of zones.                                                            only on a facade that is not directly adjacent to a residential zone. For
Sign                                                                                     purposes of this section a road shall constitute a separation of zones.
         No illuminated sign may face land zoned residential or guided residential by the comprehensive plan. For the purpose of this section a road shall constitute a
         separation of zones.   
         No wall sign higher than parapet wall.
Property    No sign may be closer than five feet to any lot line.
Setback
 
   (2)   In a PUD, Planned Unit Development Districts, permanent signs are
regulated according to the standards for the corresponding land use and zoning
category as stated in this section, except that a sign plan with differing
requirements may be approved by the city.
(Am. Ord. 09-14, passed 11-10-2014; Am. Ord. 01-23, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 1010.009 SUBSTITUTION CLAUSE.
   The owner of any sign, which is otherwise allowed by this sign chapter, may
substitute a noncommercial speech in lieu of any other commercial or
noncommercial copy. This substitution of sign content may be made without any
additional approval or permitting. The purpose of this provision is to prevent
any inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over noncommercial speech, or
favoring of any particular noncommercial message over any other noncommercial
message. This provision prevails over any more specific provision to the
contrary.
(Am. Ord. 09-14, passed 11-10-2014; Am. Ord. 01-23, passed 3-27-2023)   
§ 1010.010 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this sign chapter is
for any reason held to be invalid, the decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this sign chapter. The City Council hereby
declares that it would adopt the sign chapter in each section, division,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.
(Am. Ord. 09-14, passed 11-10-2014; Am. Ord. 01-23, passed 3-27-2023)
CHAPTER 1011: STORMWATER, EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
Section
   
1011.001   Title
   
1011.002   Findings
   
1011.003   Jurisdiction
   
1011.004   Statutory authority
   
1011.005   Adoption by reference
   
1011.006   Definitions
   
1011.007   Applicability
   
1011.008   Exemptions
   
1011.009   Reserved
   
1011.010   Grading, erosion and sediment control requirements
   
1011.011   Stormwater management requirements
   
1011.012   Inspections and maintenance
   
1011.013   Plan review procedure
   
1011.014   Financial securities
   
1011.015   Enforcement
   
1011.016   Abrogation and greater restrictions
§ 1011.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Lino Lakes Stormwater, Erosion and
Sediment Control Chapter and will be referred to herein as this chapter.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 10-26-2015; Am. Ord. 10-22, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 1011.002 FINDINGS.
   The city finds that uncontrolled stormwater runoff and construction site
erosion from land development and land-disturbing activity can have significant
adverse impacts upon local and regional water resources, diminishing the
quality of public health, safety, public and private property, and natural
resources of the city. Specifically, uncontrolled construction site erosion and
stormwater runoff can:
   (1)   Threaten public health, safety, property, and general welfare by
increasing runoff volumes, peak flood flows, and overburdening storm sewers,
drainage ways, and other storm drainage systems;
   (2)   Diminish the capacity of lakes and streams to support fish, aquatic
life, recreational uses and water supply uses by increasing pollutant loadings
of total sediment, suspended solids, nutrients, heavy metals, bacteria,
pathogens, and other urban pollutants;
   (3)   Degrade physical stream habitat by increasing stream bank erosion,
increasing stream bed scour, diminishing groundwater recharge, diminishing
stream base flows, and increasing stream temperatures;
   (4)   Undermine floodplain management efforts by increasing the incidence
and levels of flooding;
   (5)   Alter wetland communities by changing wetland hydrology and increasing
pollutant loading; and
   (6)   Generate airborne particulate concentrations that are health-
threatening or may cause other damage to property or the environment.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 10-26-2015; Am. Ord. 10-22, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 1011.003 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands within the
incorporated boundaries of Lino Lakes.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 10-26-2015; Am. Ord. 10-22, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 1011.004 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization and policies contained
in M.S. Chs. 103B, 103F, and 462 and Minn. Rules Chs. 7050, 7090, and 8410.
This chapter is intended to meet the current construction site erosion and
sediment control and post-construction stormwater management regulatory
requirements for construction activity and small construction activity as
defined in the standards of the NPDES construction general permit, as amended.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 10-26-2015; Am. Ord. 10-22, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 1011.005 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Certain Rules of the Rice Creek Watershed District (the “Rules”) and
Standards of Vadnais Lake Area Water Management Organization (the “Standards”)
and any amendments or revisions thereto referenced herein are adopted as
ordinances of the city. Where the Rules refer to the “District” they shall be
deemed as referring to the city. Where the Standards refer to the “VLAWMO” they
shall be deemed as referring to the city. Where conflicts exist between this
chapter and the Rules or Standards, the greater requirement shall apply.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 10-26-2015; Am. Ord. 10-22, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 1011.006 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have in common
usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable application. For the purpose
of this chapter, the words MUST and SHALL are mandatory and not permissive. All
distances, unless otherwise specified, shall be measured horizontally. As used
in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section.
   100-YEAR FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation of water resulting from the Critical
Duration Flood Event. See definition of Critical Duration Flood event.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP’s). Measures taken to minimize negative
effects on water resources and systems as documented in the Minnesota
Construction Site Erosion and Sediment Control Planning Handbook (MBWSR, 1988),
Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas (MPCA, 2000) and the Minnesota
Stormwater Manual (MPCA, 2014) as amended.
   BETTER SITE DESIGN (BSD). An approach to managing runoff that seeks to
attain post development hydrology which mimics the undeveloped condition in
terms of volume, rate and timing of runoff. The goals of BETTER SITE DESIGN
include reducing the amount of impervious cover, increasing the amount of
natural lands set aside for conservation, using pervious areas for more
effective stormwater treatment, innovative grading and drainage techniques and
through the review of every aspect of the project site planning process. BETTER
SITE DESIGN involves techniques applied early in the design process to reduce
impervious cover, conserve natural areas and use pervious areas to more
effectively treat stormwater runoff and promote a treatment train approach to
runoff management.
   BIOFILTRATION. A bioretention practice in which an underdrain is used.
Typically, most of the water entering the biofiltration practice enters the
underdrain and is returned to the stormwater system, but some water infiltrates
(unless the BMP has an impermeable liner) or evapotranspires. The underdrain
may be at or elevated above the bottom of the practice (i.e. at the media-soil
interface).
   BIORETENTION. A soil and plant-based stormwater management best management
practice (BMP) used to filter runoff.
   BRIDGE. A road, path, railroad or utility crossing over a waterbody,
wetland, ditch, ravine, road, railroad or other obstacle.
   BRIDGE SPAN. The clear span between the inside surfaces of a bridge's
terminal supports.
   CHANNEL. A perceptible natural or artificial depression, with a defined bed
and banks that confine and conduct water flowing either continuously or
periodically.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities including clearing, grading, and
excavating, that result in land disturbance of equal to or greater than one
acre, including the disturbance of less than one acre of total land area that
is part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger common
plan will ultimately disturb equal to or greater than one acre. This includes a
disturbance to the land that results in a change in the topography, existing
soil cover (both vegetative and nonvegetative), or the existing soil topography
that may result in accelerated stormwater runoff that may lead to soil erosion
and movement of sediment. Construction activity does not include a disturbance
to the land of less than five acres for the purpose of routine maintenance
performed to maintain the original line and grade, hydraulic capacity, and
original purpose of the facility. Routine maintenance does not include
activities such as repairs, replacement and other types of non-routine
maintenance. Pavement rehabilitation that does not disturb the underlying soils
(e.g., mill and overlay projects) is not construction activity.
   CONVEYANCE SYSTEM. Open channel, pipe or tile that is not a public drainage
system. A portion of a conveyance system is defined as “regional” if it carries
flows from a drainage area of greater than 200 acres.
   CRITICAL DURATION FLOOD EVENT. The 100-year precipitation or snow melt event
with a duration resulting in the maximum 100-year return period water surface
elevation. The CRITICAL DURATION FLOOD EVENT is generally either the 100-year,
24 hour rainfall event as found in NOAA Atlas 14 or the ten-day snow melt event
assumed to be 7.2 inches of runoff occurring on frozen ground (CN=100);
however, other durations (e.g., 6-hour) may result in the maximum 100-year
return period water surface elevation.
   DETENTION BASIN. Any natural or man-made depression that stores stormwater
runoff temporarily.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any land-disturbing activity resulting in creation or
reconstruction of impervious surface including, but not limited to, municipal
road construction. Normal farming practices part of an ongoing farming
operation shall not be considered a DEVELOPMENT.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM. A system of open channel, pipe or tile, to drain property,
including laterals, improvements, and improvements of outlets, which may or may
not be a public system under the jurisdiction of a watershed district under
M.S. Chs. 103B, 103D, or 103E.
   EMERGENCY OVERFLOW (EOF). A primary overflow to pass flows above the design
capacity around the principal outlet safely downstream without causing
flooding.
   EXCAVATION. The displacement or removal of soil, sediment or other material.
   FILTRATION. A stormwater quality BMP that uses either natural media such as
soil or vegetation or manufactured media to trap pollutants such as nutrients
and particles in surface water.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway. Flood
fringe is synonymous with the term FLOODWAY FRINGE used in the Flood Insurance
study for Anoka County.
   FLOODPLAIN. The beds proper and areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   FREEBOARD. Vertical distance between the 100-year flood elevation or
emergency overflow elevation of a water basin or watercourse and the elevation
of the regulatory elevation of a structure.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A compacted surface or a surface covered with material
(i.e., gravel, asphalt, concrete, Class 5, etc.) that increases the depth of
runoff compared to natural soils and land cover. Including but not limited to
roads, driveways, parking areas, sidewalks and trails, patios, tennis courts,
basketball courts, swimming pools, building roofs, covered decks, and other
structures.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the ground through the soil.
   LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any disturbance to the ground surface that,
through the action of wind or water, may result in soil erosion or the movement
of sediment into waters, wetlands or storm sewers or onto adjacent property.
LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY includes but is not limited to the demolition of a
structure or surface, soil stripping, clearing, grubbing, grading, excavating,
filling and the storage of soil or earth materials. The term does not include
normal farming practices as part of an ongoing farming operation.
   LANDLOCKED BASIN. A water basin lacking an outlet at an elevation at or
below the water level produced by the critical duration flood event, generally
the ten-day snowmelt event.
   LOW ENTRY ELEVATION. The elevation of the lowest opening in a structure.
   LOW FLOOR ELEVATION. The elevation of the lowest floor of a habitable or
uninhabitable structure, which is often the elevation of the basement floor or
walk-out level.
   MILL, RECLAMATION AND OVERLAY. Removal of the top layer(s) of an impervious
surface (e.g. roadway, parking lot, sport court) by mechanical means, followed
by the placement of a new layer of impervious surface, without exposure of the
underlying native soil.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency that
authorizes the discharge of pollutants to the waters of the state.
   NATIONWIDE URBAN RUNOFF PROGRAM (NURP). Urban Runoff Program developed by
the Environmental Protection Agency to study stormwater runoff from urban
development.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL (OHW). The highest water level elevation that has
been maintained for a sufficiently long period of time to leave evidence upon
the landscape. The OHW is commonly that point where the natural vegetation
changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. If an OHW has
been established for a waterbody by the Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources, it will constitute the OHW under this definition.
   OWNER. The person or party possessing the title of the land on which the
construction activities will occur; or if the construction activity is for a
lease, easement, or mineral rights license holder, the party or individual
identified as the lease, easement, or mineral rights license holder; or the
contracting government agency responsible for the construction activity.
   POLLUTANT. A substance that pollutes something, especially water or the
atmosphere.
   PUBLIC LINEAR PROJECT. A project involving a roadway, sidewalk, trail or
utility not part of an industrial, commercial, institutional or residential
development.
   RECONSTRUCTION. Removal of an impervious surface such that the underlying
structural aggregate base is effectively removed and the underlying native soil
exposed.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 1% chance
or 100-year recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term
BASE FLOOD used in the Flood Insurance Study.
   SEASONAL HIGH WATER TABLE. The highest known seasonal elevation of
groundwater as indicated by redoximorphic features such as mottling within the
soil.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. Methods employed to prevent sediment from leaving the
site. SEDIMENT CONTROL practices include silt fences, sediment traps, earth
dikes, drainage swales, check dams, subsurface drains, pipe slope drains, storm
drain inlet protection, and temporary or permanent sedimentation basins.
   SHORELAND. Land located within the following distances from the ordinary
high water elevation of public waters:
      (a)   Land within 1,000 feet from the normal high watermark of a lake,
pond or flowage; and
      (b)   Land within 300 feet of a river or stream or the landward size of a
floodplain delineated by ordinance on the river or stream, whichever is
greater.
   STABILIZED. The exposed ground surface has been covered by appropriate
materials such as mulch, staked sod, riprap, erosion control blanket, mats or
other material that prevents erosion from occurring. Applying mulch,
hydromulch, tackifier, polyacrylamide, or similar erosion prevention practices
is not acceptable stabilization in temporary or permanent drainage ditches or
areas where concentrated overland flow occurs. Grass seeding is not
stabilization.
   STORM SEWER. A pipe system for stormwater conveyance.
   STORMWATER. Defined under Minn. Rules 7077.0105, Subd. 41(b), meaning
precipitation runoff, stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff, and any other surface
runoff and drainage.
   STORMWATER FACILITY, PRIVATE. Any BMP that is maintained by a private
property owner, or other private entity and not maintained by a public agency.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. A plan for the permanent management and control
of runoff prepared and implemented in accordance with the standards set forth
in this chapter.
   STORMWATER POND. Constructed basins placed in the landscape to capture
stormwater runoff.
   SUBDIVISION. The legal separation of an area, parcel, or tract of land under
single ownership into two or more parcels, tracts, lots.
   SURFACE WATERS. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, wetlands, reservoirs,
springs, rivers, drainage systems, waterways, watercourses, and irrigation
systems whether natural or artificial, public or private.
   UNDERGROUND WATERS. Water contained below the surface of the earth in the
saturated zone including, without limitation, all waters whether under
confined, unconfined, or perched conditions, in near surface unconsolidated
sediment or regolith, or in rock formations deeper underground. The term GROUND
WATER shall be synonymous with underground water.
   WATER QUANTITY BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE. The use of on-site runoff
management practices such as biofiltration, infiltration, buffers/conservation
areas, impervious disconnection, and greenway connections to satisfy stormwater
management requirements.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. As defined in M.S. § 103G.005, Subd. 17 means surface
or underground waters, except surface waters that are not confined but are
spread and diffused over the land. Waters of the state includes boundary and
inland waters.
   WETLAND. Land transitional between terrestrial and aquatic systems, as
defined in M.S. § 103G.005, Subd. 19.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 10-26-2015; Am. Ord. 10-22, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 1011.007 APPLICABILITY.
   All land-disturbing activity may be subject to standard erosion and sediment
control BMP’s. A permit shall be required for projects that meet or exceed the
thresholds established in §§
1011.010 and
1011.011.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 10-26-2015; Am. Ord. 10-22, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 1011.008 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following land-disturbing activities will be exempt from the permit
requirements of this chapter:
   (1)   Cemetery graves;
   (2)   Routine agricultural activity such as tilling, planting, or harvesting
of agricultural, horticultural, or silvicultural (forestry) crops; and
   (3)   Emergency work necessary to protect life, limb, or property.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 10-26-2015; Am. Ord. 10-22, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 1011.009 RESERVED.
§ 1011.010 GRADING, EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
   (1)   Grading, erosion and sediment control (ESC). A permit shall be
required for all proposed land-disturbing activity unless otherwise exempted in
this chapter that meets any or all of the following:
      (a)   Includes excavation, filing, or stockpiling of erodible material in
excess of 50 cubic yards per acre;
      (b)   Disturbs more than one acre of land or 10,000 square feet if any
part of the disturbed area is within 300 feet of a lake, stream or wetland and
drains towards it; and/or
      (c)   A land-disturbing activity, regardless of size, that the city
determines is likely to cause an adverse impact to an environmentally sensitive
area or other property.
   (2)   Grading, erosion and sediment control plan design standards. Grading,
erosion and sediment control plans must comply with the following criteria:
      (a)   All site erosion and sediment control practices shall be consistent
with Minnesota Pollution Control Agency document “Protecting water Quality in
Urban Areas (1994)” as amended and City of Lino Lakes General Specifications
and Standard Detail Plates for Street and Utility Construction, as amended.
      (b)   Natural site topography and soil conditions must be specifically
addressed to reduce erosion and sedimentation during construction and after
project completion.
      (c)   The project must be phased as best as possible to minimize
disturbed areas and removal of existing vegetation until necessary for project
progress.
      (d)   The city may require additional erosion and sediment control
measures on areas with a continuous slope leading to a sensitive, impaired or
special water body, stream, ditch or wetland to assure retention of sediment on
site.
      (e)   The plan must include conditions adequate to protect facilities to
be used for post-construction stormwater infiltration.
      (f)   Protection shall be provided to minimize disturbance to surrounding
soils, root systems and trunks of trees adjacent to site activity that are
intended to be left standing.
      (g)   Compaction of site soils shall be minimized.
      (h)   All imported materials shall be approved by the City Engineer prior
to placement on the site.
      (i)   Appropriate on-site containment must be provided for all trash,
solid waste, construction debris, floating debris, and hazardous materials.
Disposal of collected sediment shall be deposited only in approved locations.
   (3)   Grading, erosion and sediment control (ESC) required exhibits. The
plan shall be prepared and signed by a duly licensed professional engineer in
the State of Minnesota. The following exhibits must accompany the permit
application: two plan sets, full size (22 inches by 34 inches); and one
electronic copy in a .pdf format. All plan sets shall also be submitted
electronically in a .dwg format or as otherwise determined by the City
Engineer. The minimum requirements of the grading, erosion, and sediment
control plan shall be consistent with the most recent version of the NPDES
permit requirements and include the following information:
      (a)   Project name and location;
      (b)   Address, county parcel identification number and legal description
of the property;
      (c)   Names and addresses of the record owner, developer, land surveyor,
engineer, designer of the plat, and any agents, contractors, and subcontractors
who will be responsible for project implementation, including the name, address
and phone number of the party responsible for maintenance of all erosion and
sediment control measures;
      (d)   Tabulation of construction implementation schedule, including:
estimated start date, time frames, and schedules for each construction phase,
and completion date;
      (e)   Copies of permits or permit applications required by any other
government entity or agencies including mitigation measures required as a
result of any review for the project (e.g., wetland mitigation, EAW, EIS,
archaeology survey);
      (f)   Existing conditions map. An existing topographic site map, drawn to
a legible scale and clearly labeled with a north arrow and date of preparation.
The plan, based on a certificate of survey, shall include the following
information:
         1.   Property lines and lot dimensions;
         2.   Existing zoning classifications for land within and abutting the
development, including shoreland, floodway, floodway fringe, or general
floodplain, and other natural resource overlay districts;
         3.   All buildings and outdoor uses including all dimensions and
setbacks;
         4.   All public and private roads, interior roads, driveways and
parking lots;
         5.   Show ordinary high water levels of all navigable waters, 100-year
critical flood duration event elevations, and delineated wetland boundaries, if
any. If not available, appropriate flood zone determination or wetland
delineation, or both, may be required at the applicant's expense;
         6.   Identify all special waters and impaired waters, as identified in
the most recent listing by the MPCA, within one mile of the project that
receive runoff from the project;
         7.   Location of drainage areas, existing storm sewer facilities,
including pipes, manholes, catch basins, ponds, swales and drainage channels
within 100 feet of the subject property. Existing pipe sizes, grades, rim and
invert elevations, and normal and high water elevations must be included;
         8.   Existing contours at one foot intervals, shown as dashed lines
for the subject property and extending 100 feet beyond the outside boundary of
the proposed plat;
         9.   Location of any steep slopes where areas have an average slope of
more than 12% over a distance of at least 50 feet, or bluff areas as defined in
the Shoreland ordinance, whichever is applicable; and
         10.   Location of wooded areas, high quality native plant communities,
or other officially designated natural resource areas.
      (g)   Proposed conditions map.
         1.   Maps identifying areas discussed in (3)(f)1. through (f)10. of
this section.
         2.   Location, size, and approximate grade of proposed public sewer
and water mains.
         3.   Elevations, sections, profiles, and details as needed to describe
all natural and artificial features of the project.
         4.   Proposed grade contours at one-foot intervals shown as solid
lines.
         5.   An estimate of the total volume (cubic yards) of materials
proposed to be imported to or exported from the site.
         6.   Provisions for groundwater management (dewatering), including
subsurface drains, disposals, ponding and flood controls.
         7.   Spot elevations at drainage break points and directional arrows
indicating site swale and lot drainage.
         8.   Proposed lot lines, lot and block numbers, building style,
building pad location and elevations at the lowest floor and garage slab, if
applicable, for each lot.
         9.   Locations, sizes, grades, rim and invert elevations of all
proposed stormwater facilities, including ponds, proposed to serve the subject
property.
         10.   The location of all oversize, non-typical easements including
conservation easements, if applicable.
         11.   Show the boundary of the 100-year flood elevations of all
waterbodies.
         12.   Locations of all stormwater management practices, infiltration
areas, and areas not to be disturbed during construction.
         13.   Normal water level, high water level, and emergency overflow
elevations for the site and all associated ponding systems.
         14.   Location of areas where construction will be phased to minimize
duration of exposed soil areas. Include map and calculations as necessary of
areas of grubbing, clearing, tree removal, grading, excavation, fill, and other
disturbance; areas of soil or earth material storage; quantities of soil or
earth material to be removed, placed, stored, or otherwise moved on site, and
delineated limits of disturbance.
         15.   Location and type of all temporary and permanent erosion
prevention, sediment control, stormwater runoff, and soil stabilization BMP’s,
along with procedures to be used to establish additional temporary BMP’s as
necessary for the site conditions during construction. Standard plates and/or
specifications for the BMP’s used on the project must be included in the final
plans and specifications for the project. Location and design of temporary
sediment basins where ten acres or more (five acres or more for special or
impaired waters) are disturbed and drained to a single point. When site
restrictions do not allow for a temporary sediment basin or less than the
required acreage is being developed, temporary sediment basins where
appropriate are encouraged, but not required in areas with steep slopes or
highly erodible soils or to take equivalent measures such as smaller basins,
check dams, and vegetated buffer strips.
         16.   Methods to be used for final stabilization of all exposed soil
areas.
         17.   Documentation that the project applicant has applied for the
NPDES permit from the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA), when
applicable.
         18.   A stormwater pollution prevention plan for projects that require
an NPDES permit.
   (4)   Construction activity requirements. Any activity subject to a permit
under this chapter must conform to the standards of the NPDES general permit
regarding construction-site erosion and sediment control.
   (5)   Inspections. (See also § 1101.011.)
      (a)   The applicant shall be responsible for inspection, maintenance and
effectiveness of all erosion and sediment control measures until final soil
stabilization is achieved.
      (b)   The city may inspect the project site and require the applicant to
provide additional erosion control measures as it determined conditions
warrant.
   (6)   Final stabilization.
      (a)   Erosion and sediment control measures must be maintained until
final vegetation and ground cover is established to a density of 70% over the
entire pervious surface area.
      (b)   All temporary erosion and sediment control BMP’s will be removed,
by owner, after all disturbed areas have been permanently stabilized.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 10-26-2015; Am. Ord. 10-22, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 1011.011 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (1)   Stormwater management. A permit incorporating an approved stormwater
management plan shall be required for all proposed land development activity
including public linear projects, unless otherwise exempted in this chapter,
which meets any or all of the following:
      (a)   A development, redevelopment or reconstruction, except public
linear projects, that creates or reconstructs 10,000 square feet or more of
impervious surface, including smaller individual sites that are part of a
common plan of development that may be constructed at different times.
      (b)   A subdivision of an area exceeding one acre. This includes
subdivision for single-family residential, multi-unit residential, commercial,
industrial, or institutional development.
      (c)   For public linear projects, a permit is required when one or more
acres of impervious surface will be created or reconstructed through multiple
phases or connected actions of a single project, as defined by the city.
      (d)   Any land-disturbing activity, regardless of size, that the city
determines would otherwise cause an adverse impact to an environmentally
sensitive area or other property including areas within floodplain and
shoreland districts.
   (2)   Exceptions.
      (a)   A permit is not required for single-family residential construction
on an individual lot of record, if the proposed impervious surface of the lot
is less than 10,000 square feet, excluding the driveway. Stormwater management
requirements do not apply to development of an individual lot within a
residential subdivision if it conforms to an approved development plan.
      (b)   Stormwater management requirements do not apply to sidewalks and
trails ten feet wide or less that are bordered down-gradient by vegetated open
space or vegetated filter strip with a minimum width of five feet.
      (c)   Stormwater management requirements do not apply to bridge spans,
mill, reclamation and overlay projects.
      (d)   Stormwater Management Requirements do not apply to single-family
residential subdivisions creating seven or fewer lots that:
         1.   Establish no new public roadway; and
         2.   Includes no private roadway/driveway serving three or more lots.
   (3)   Stormwater management performance standards. A stormwater management
plan shall be submitted with the permit application for a project equaling or
exceeding the threshold of §
1011.011(1). The plan shall be designed to reduce the impacts of development by
maintaining predevelopment hydrological conditions in the following ways:
      (a)   Use of natural topography. The applicant shall incorporate the use
of natural topography and land cover such as natural swales and depressions as
they exist before development to the degree that they can accommodate the
additional flow of water without compromising the integrity or quality of the
receiving waterbody.
      (b)   Minimize impact to natural features. The development shall minimize
impact to significant natural features. Applicant shall review the site for
natural features protected under city, state or federal requirements, including
steep slopes, wetlands, wooded areas, endangered or threatened species or
species of concern habitat, areas designated by the county biological survey,
greenways, parks and open space, groundwater recharge areas, wellhead or
surface water protection areas or regional stormwater pond locations.
      (c)   Conveyance system. Wherever possible untreated and treated
stormwater runoff shall be conveyed in facilities open to the atmosphere (e.g.
swales, vegetated buffer strips, energy-dissipating structures, and the like)
rather than through enclosed pipes, so as to decrease runoff velocity, allow
for natural infiltration, allow suspended sediment particles to settle, and to
remove pollutants.
      (d)   Proposed development design shall:
         1.   Maintain or decrease runoff volume, where practicable as
determined by the City Engineer;
         2.   Decrease erosion and sedimentation;
         3.   Maintain or decrease flow frequency, duration, and peak runoff
rates;
         4.   Increase infiltration (groundwater recharge) or filtration;
         5.   Maintain existing flow patterns;
         6.   Reduce time to peak flows by increasing the time of concentration
to and through storm sewers;
         7.   Provide storage of stormwater runoff on site;
         8.   Avoid channel erosion;
         9.   The proposed project must not adversely affect water level off
the site during or after construction;
         10.   The proposed activity may not reduce hydraulic efficiency of the
drainage ways at any point up-gradient of the applicant's parcel boundary; and
         11.   A combination of Stormwater BMP’s may be used to meet the
requirements of divisions 6, 7, or 8.
      (e)   Landlocked basins. A landlocked basin may be provided an outlet
only if it:
         1.   Retains a hydrologic regime that complies with the requirements
of the local governmental unit (LGU) responsible for administration of the
Wetland Conservation Act (WCA);
         2.   Provides sufficient dead storage volume to retain back to back
100-year, 24-hour rainfalls and runoff; and
         3.   Does not create adverse downstream flooding or water quality
conditions as a result of increased discharge rate or volume, or other factors.
      (f)   All plans shall be consistent with National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination permit (NPDES) requirements, the Lino Lakes engineering design
standards, the Lino Lakes stormwater design standards, and the filing or
approval requirements of Rice Creek Watershed District, Vadnais Lakes Watershed
Management Organization, Anoka County, Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources, Minnesota Department of Transportation, Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, State of Minnesota Stormwater Manual or
other regulatory agencies.
   (4)   Stormwater management plan modeling requirements. The city adopts by
reference RCWD Rule C4, Modeling for Stormwater Management Plans, as amended.
   (5)   Water quality treatment. The city adopts by reference RCWD Rule C6,
Water Quality Treatment as amended.
   (6)   Peak stormwater runoff control. The city adopts by reference RCWD Rule
C7, Peak Stormwater Runoff Control as amended.
   (7)   Design criteria. Best Management Practices shall be designed in
accordance with the following standards:
      (a)   Infiltration BMP’s. The city adopts by reference RCWD Rules C.9.(a)
as amended.
      (b)   Water reuse. The city adopts by reference RCWD Rules C.9.(b) as
amended.
      (c)   Biofiltration and filtration BMP’s. The city adopts by reference
RCWD Rules C.9.(c) as amended.
      (d)   Stormwater ponds. The city adopts by reference RCWD Rules C.9.(d)
as amended.
      (e)   Soil borings. The city adopts by reference RCWD Rules C.9.(e) as
amended.
      (f)   Outfalls. The city adopts by reference RCWD Rules C.9.(f) as
amended.
      (g)   Freeboard requirements. All new residential, commercial, industrial
and other habitable or non-habitable structures, and all stormwater basins,
must be constructed so that the lowest floor and lowest entry elevations of
structures comply with Table 1.
 
Table 1. Low floor and low entry freeboard requirements
          Regional    Local
          Flood    Detention           Infiltration BasiRain    Groundwater1
          Elevatio    Basins &                          Gardens
          ns       Wetlands
Elevation 100 year EOF  100  EOF    Bottom 100 year EOF    EOF     Seasonal
                        year                                       High Level
Low Floor 2-ft     1-ft 0-ft N/ A   0-ft   N/A      N/ A   N/A     4-ft
Freeboard
Low Entry N/A      N/ A 2-ft 1-ft   N/A    2-ft     1-ft   0.5-ft  N/A
Freeboard
1 The seasonal high groundwater level shall be determined within 12 months of
proposed construction of the structure by a soil scientist or geotechnical
engineer registered in the State of Minnesota as indicated by redoximorphic
features such as mottling within the soil or by direct groundwater observation.
 
      (h)   Within a landlocked basin, lowest floor elevations must be at least
one foot above the surveyed basin overflow elevation. Where a structure is
proposed below the runoff elevation of a land-locked basin, the low-floor
elevation will be a minimum of two feet above the high water level as
determined from an estimate of high water levels determined from the highest of
either the 100-year, ten-day runoff event or back-to-back 100-year, 24-hour
rainfalls. Aerial photos, vegetation, soils, and topography will be used to
derive a "normal" water elevation for the basin for the purpose of computing
the 100-year elevation.
   (8)   Drainage and utility easements.
      (a)   If a stormwater management plan involves direction of some or all
runoff off of the site, it shall be the responsibility of the applicant to
obtain from adjacent property owners any necessary easements or other property
interests concerning flowage of water.
      (b)   Easements are required for all stormwater management facilities,
stormwater conveyances and on-site floodplain and shall extend a minimum of ten
feet beyond the basin's normal water level or the 100-year storm high water
level elevation, whichever is greater.
      (c)   Easements are required for all outlet swales and ditches, and for
overland overflow routes located downstream of basins located on site.
      (d)   If the storm sewer is to be installed less than ten feet deep
within private property, the easement shall be a minimum of 20 feet wide. If
the storm sewer is ten feet or greater, the easement shall be twice as wide as
the depth.
      (e)   Easements necessary for maintenance vehicle access are required for
all of the above where not directly available on a public road.
   (9)   Wetlands. Runoff shall not be routed directly to wetlands without
first passing through an appropriate settling or approved pre-treatment basin.
Said basins must meet standards for volume and flow directed to the basin.
      (a)   A protective buffer strip of natural vegetation shall surround all
wetlands as follows:
         1.   Where RCWD is the Local Government Unit (LGU) for administration
of the Minnesota Wetland Conservation Act (WCA) the city adopts RCWD Rule F.6.
(e), as amended. Wetlands not subject to RCWD Rule F.6. (e) shall have a
minimum buffer width of ten feet.
         2.   Where Vadnais Lakes Area Water Management Organization (VLAWMO)
is the LGU for administration of WCA, the city adopts VLAWMO Water Quality
Standards Section 11, as amended.
      (b)   Wetlands must not be drained, filled, or altered, wholly or
partially, unless in compliance with and permitted under the most current rules
adopted by the Minnesota Board of Water and Soil Resources in the Wetland
Conservation Act (WCA). Wetland replacement must be guided by the following
principles in descending order:
         1.   Avoidance.
         2.   Minimization.
         3.   Mitigation.
      (c)   Permits to work in wetlands must be obtained from the local water
management organizations, acting as local governmental units (LGU), with
respective jurisdiction with the City of Lino Lakes to administer the WCA.
      (d)   Permanent boundary markers, in the form of signage approved by the
City of Lino Lakes, should be installed prior to final approval of the required
clearing and grading plan.
   (10)   Comprehensive Stormwater Management Plan. The City of Lino Lakes may
develop a comprehensive stormwater management plan (CSMP) as an alternative way
to meet the stormwater requirements of the local watershed agencies for
development within a defined area and a common resource of concern (ROC). The
CSMP will be submitted to the applicable watershed district for review and must
comply with the requirements of the watershed district. The following
Comprehensive Stormwater Management Plans are adopted and in effect:
      (a)   Legacy at Woods Edge Development (LWED) CSMP (August 2016). The
LWED is defined as that area within the City of Lino Lakes bounded by I-35W to
the north, Town Center Parkway to the south, and Lake Drive to the west. The
following LWED CSMP policies and regulations supersede portions of §
1011.011 within the LWED as follows:
         1.   Subpart (5) Water Quality Treatment and Subpart (6) Peak
Stormwater Runoff Control. Private development shall not exceed the impervious
areas listed in Appendix E of the LWED CSMP. If developers choose to exceed the
impervious limits, they will be required to address any additional stormwater
requirements within that parcel at their own expense and demonstrate how the
additional runoff will be treated to meet the applicable Rice Creek Watershed
District rules. Any such best management practices (BMP’s) will be considered
private and be maintained by the owner/developer of the parcel.
      (b)   Northeast Lino Lakes Drainage Area (NEDA) CSMP (September 2018).
The NEDA is defined as that area within the City of Lino Lakes bounded by Main
Street to the south, the City of Hugo to the east, Lake Peltier to the west and
Rehbein Street to the north. The following NEDA CSMP policies and regulations
supersede portions of §
1011.011 with the NEDA as follows:
         1.   Subpart (5). Water Quality Treatment. Water quality treatment
requirements shall be met through a variety of measures as is feasible on a
regional or development-by-development basis. On-site infiltration is not
feasible for most of the NEDA due to poor soils, high groundwater and the
presence of wetlands. As development proceeds within the NEDA, developers shall
be required to demonstrate that infiltration is not feasible on-site before
utilizing any regional basins or other BMP alternatives.
         2.   Subpart (6). Peak Stormwater Runoff Control. Private development
shall be restricted to an allowable flow rate of 0.1 cubic feet per second
(cfs) per acre for the 100-year, 24-hour peak discharge rate. This will result
in a maximum peak discharge rate from the NEDA into Peltier Lake of no more
than 135 cfs. This restriction may be met through a combination of rate control
practices on a regional or development-by-development basis.
   (11)   Stormwater management plan required exhibits. The stormwater
management plan shall be prepared and signed by a duly licensed engineer in the
State of Minnesota. The following exhibits must accompany the permit
application: two plan sets, full size (22 inches by 34 inches); and one
electronic copy in a .pdf format. All plan sets shall also be submitted
electronically in a .dwg format or as otherwise determined by the City
Engineer.
      (a)   A grading, erosion and sediment control plan and, for projects that
require a NPDES permit, a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP).
      (b)   Stormwater management plan including existing and proposed
hydrologic calculations for total runoff volume and peak discharge rates as
described in this chapter, including:
         1.   A narrative including a project description, discussion of BMP
selection, incorporation of infiltration BMPs, and revegetation plan for the
project site;
         2.   Delineation of all drainage areas, including contributing runoff
from off-site areas, proposed and existing subwatersheds on-site, emergency
overflows, and drainage ways;
         3.   Existing, proposed, and total amount of impervious surfaces
created by the project;
         4.   Existing and proposed runoff curve numbers;
         5.   Time of concentration used in calculations; and
         6.   Existing and proposed total runoff volume and peak discharge
rates for the two-, ten-, and 100-year critical events utilizing NOAA Atlas 14.
      (c)   Property of lines and delineation of lands under ownership of the
applicant.
      (d)   Locations of all stormwater management practices, infiltration
areas, and areas not to be disturbed during construction.
      (e)   Location of all drain tiles on the project site shall be
identified.
      (f)   Location and engineered designs for structural stormwater
management practices including stormwater treatment devices that remove oil and
floatable material (e.g., basin outlets with submerged inlets).
      (g)   Normal water level, high water level, and emergency overflow
elevations for the site and all ponding systems related to NAVD88.
      (h)   Identification of existing and proposed one-foot contour elevations
within the project site related to NAVD88.
      (i)   Geotechnical analysis including soil borings at all proposed
stormwater management facility locations ASTM D5921 and D2488.
      (j)   Provisions for groundwater management (dewatering), including
subsurface drains, disposals, ponding and flood controls.
      (k)   Completed Rice Creek Watershed District worksheet explaining better
site design techniques that were evaluated during project design, the results
of the evaluation of each and for any techniques deemed infeasible.
      (l)   A long-term maintenance plan and schedule for all permanent
stormwater practices, along with the identity of the party responsible for the
maintenance of the project. The maintenance responsibility must be memorialized
in a document executed by the property owner in a form acceptable to the city
and filed for record on the deed.
      (m)   Before work is deemed complete, as-built plans must be submitted
demonstrating that at the time of final stabilization, stormwater facilities
conform to design specifications.
      (n)   Other project site-specific submittal requirements as may be
required by the city.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 10-26-2015; Am. Ord. 10-22, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 1011.012 INSPECTIONS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (1)   Inspections. The applicant is responsible for inspections and record
keeping in accordance with the NPDES permit requirements. The city shall
conduct inspections on a regular basis to ensure that both stormwater and
erosion and sediment control measures are properly installed and maintained
prior to construction, during construction, and at the completion of the
project. In all cases the inspectors will attempt to work with the applicant or
developer to maintain proper stormwater management. Mandatory inspections,
conducted by the city, are required as follows:
      (a)   Before any land-disturbing activity begins;
      (b)   Five working days after footing inspections;
      (c)   At the completion of the project; and
      (d)   Prior to the release of financial securities.
   (2)   Post-construction inspection and maintenance of stormwater facilities.
      (a)   Private stormwater facilities. No private stormwater facility may
be approved unless a maintenance agreement is provided that defines who will
conduct maintenance, the type of maintenance, and the maintenance intervals.
All private stormwater facilities shall be inspected by the owner and
maintained in proper condition consistent with the performance standards for
which they were originally designed.
         1.   Facility access. Access to all stormwater facilities must be
inspected annually and maintained as necessary. It shall be the responsibility
of the applicant to obtain any necessary easements or other property interests
to allow access to the facilities for inspection or maintenance for both the
responsible party and the city.
         2.   Maintenance. All settled materials from ponds, sumps, grit
chambers, and other devices, including settled solids, shall be removed and
properly disposed of once capacity is reduced by 30%.
         3.   Inspection. All private stormwater facilities must submit an as-
built record plan of the facility and must provide documentation to the city of
an inspection during construction, during the first year of operation, and at
least once every five years thereafter. Private facilities are subject to city
inspection at any time to ensure compliance.
      (b)   Public stormwater facilities.
         1.   Acceptance of publicly owned facilities. Before work under the
permit is deemed complete, as-builts and certification must be submitted
demonstrating at the time of final stabilization that the stormwater facilities
conform to design specifications. A final inspection shall be required before
the city accepts ownership of the stormwater facilities.
         2.   Inventory of stormwater facilities. The city shall inventory and
maintain a database for all public stormwater facilities within the city
requiring maintenance to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (3)   Maintenance. The city shall perform maintenance of publicly owned
stormwater facilities within the city as provided for in the local surface
water management plan.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 10-26-2015; Am. Ord. 10-22, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 1011.013 PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   Plan review. The applicant shall not commence any construction activity
subject to this chapter until the stormwater management plan and/or the
grading, erosion and sediment control plan have been approved by the city. The
submittal shall be processed in accordance with:
   Ch. 1007.020 of city code as applicable. City approval is contingent on
issuance of all other permits required by the city or other agencies having
jurisdiction on the project. The following standards shall apply to all
developments within the city:
   (1)   Plan approval. If the city determines that the stormwater management
plan and/or the grading, erosion and sediment control plan meets the
requirements of this chapter, the city shall issue a plan approval valid for a
specified period of time that authorizes the land disturbance activity
contingent on the implementation and completion of this plan.
   (2)   Plan denial. If the city determines that the plan does not meet the
requirements of this chapter, the city shall not issue plan approval for the
land disturbance activity. This plan must be resubmitted for approval before
the land disturbance activity begins. All land use and building permits shall
be suspended until the developer has an approved permit for ESC or stormwater
management.
   (3)   Modification of plan. The applicant must amend the plan as necessary
to include additional requirements such as additional or modified BMP’s
designed to correct problems identified or address situations whenever:
      (a)   A change in design, construction, operation, maintenance, weather,
or seasonal conditions that has a significant effect on the discharge or
pollutants to surface waters or underground waters;
      (b)   Inspections or investigations indicate the plans are not effective
in eliminating or significantly minimizing the discharge or pollutants to
surface waters or underground waters or that the discharges are causing water
quality degradation;
      (c)   The plan is not achieving the general objectives of minimizing
pollutants in stormwater discharges associated with construction activity; or
      (d)   The plan is not consistent with the terms and conditions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 10-26-2015; Am. Ord. 10-22, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 1011.014 FINANCIAL SECURITIES.
   The applicant shall be subject to the financial security provisions of the
city development agreement, site improvement performance agreement and/or the
city public improvement financing policy, as applicable.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 10-26-2015; Am. Ord. 10-22, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 1011.015 ENFORCEMENT.
   (1)   Notification of failure of the permit. The city shall notify the
permit holder of the failure of the permit's measures.
      (a)   Initial contact. The initial contact will be to the party or
parties listed on the application and/or the SWPPP as contacts. Except during
an emergency action, 48 hours after notification by the city or 72 hours after
the failure of erosion and sediment control measures, whichever is less, the
city at its discretion may begin corrective work. Such notification should be
in writing, but if it is verbal, a written notification should follow as
quickly as practical. If after making a good faith effort to notify the
responsible party or parties, the city has been unable to establish contact,
the city may proceed with corrective work. There are conditions when time is of
the essence in controlling erosion. During such a condition, the city may take
immediate action and then notify the applicant as soon as possible.
      (b)   Emergency action. If circumstances exist such that non-compliance
with this chapter poses an immediate danger to the public health, safety and
welfare, as determined by the city, the city may take emergency preventative
action. The city shall also take every reasonable action possible to contact
and direct the applicant to take any necessary action. Any cost to the city may
be recovered from the applicant's financial security.
      (c)   Erosion off site. If erosion breaches the perimeter of the site,
the applicant shall clean up and repair or supplement with functional BMP’s
within 24 hours of discovery or immediately as conditions allow. If, in the
discretion of the city, the permit holder does not repair the damage caused by
the erosion, the city may do the remedial work required and charge the cost to
the applicant. When restoration to wetlands and other resources are required,
the applicant shall be required to work with the appropriate agency to ensure
that the work is done properly.
      (d)   Erosion into streets, wetlands, or water bodies. If eroded soils
(including tracked soils from construction activities) enter or appear likely
to enter streets, wetlands, or other water bodies, cleanup and repair shall be
immediate. The applicant shall provide all traffic control and flagging
required to protect the traveling public during the cleanup operations.
      (e)   Failure to do corrective work. When an applicant fails to conform
to any provision of this chapter within the time stipulated, the city may take
the following actions:
         1.   Issue a stop work order, withhold the scheduling of inspections,
and/or the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
         2.   Revoke any permit issued by the city to the applicant for the
site in question or any other of the applicant's sites within the city's
jurisdiction.
         3.   Correct the deficiency or hire a contractor to correct the
deficiency.
         4.   Require reimbursement to the city for all costs incurred in
correcting stormwater pollution control deficiencies. If payment is not made
within 30 days after costs are incurred by the city, payment will be made from
the applicant's financial securities as described above.
         5.   If there is an insufficient financial amount in the applicant's
financial securities as described above, then the city may assess the remaining
amount against the property. As a condition of the permit, the owner shall
waive notice of any assessment hearing to be conducted by the city, concur that
the benefit to the property exceeds the amount of the proposed assessment, and
waive all rights by virtue of M.S. § 429.081 to challenge the amount or
validity of assessment.
   (2)   Enforcement. The city shall be responsible for enforcing this chapter.
      (a)   Penalties. Any person, firm, or corporation failing to comply with
or violating any of these regulations shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and be subject to a fine or imprisonment or both. All land use and building
permits shall be suspended until the applicant has corrected the violation.
Each day that a separate violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
      (b)   Right-of-entry and inspection; powers. The issuance of a permit
constitutes a right-of-entry for the city or its contractor to enter upon the
construction site. The applicant shall allow the city and their authorized
representatives, upon presentation of credentials, to:
         1.   Enter upon the permitted site for the purpose of obtaining
information, examination of records, conducting investigations or surveys;
         2.   Bring such equipment upon the permitted site as is necessary to
conduct such surveys and investigations;
         3.   Examine and copy any books, papers, records, or memoranda
pertaining to activities or records required to be kept under the terms and
conditions of the permitted site;
         4.   Inspect the stormwater pollution control measures; and
         5.   Sample and monitor any items or activities pertaining to
stormwater pollution control measures;
         6.   Correcting deficiencies in stormwater and erosion and sediment
control measures.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 10-26-2015; Am. Ord. 10-22, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 1011.016 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of any other city ordinance adopted by the City Council, the more
restrictive standard prevails.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 10-26-2015; Am. Ord. 10-22, passed 1-9-2023)
1100: SHORELAND AND FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
      Chapter
         
1101.   RESERVED
         
1102.   SHORELAND MANAGEMENT OVERLAY
         
1103.   FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 1101: RESERVED
CHAPTER 1102: SHORELAND MANAGEMENT OVERLAY
Section
   
1102.01   Statutory authorization and policy
   
1102.02   General provisions
   
1102.03   Definitions
   
1102.04   Administration
   
1102.05   Shoreland Overlay District
   
1102.06   Shoreland Overlay District uses
   
1102.07   Zoning and water supply/sanitary provisions
   
1102.08   Nonconformities
   
1102.09   Shoreland alterations
   
1102.10   Special provisions for commercial, industrial, public/semipublic,
agricultural, forestry and extractive uses and mining of metallic minerals and
peat
   
1102.11   Water supply and sewage treatment
   
1102.12   Subdivision/platting provisions
   
1102.13   Shoreland Planned Unit Development (PUD)
§ 1102.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION AND POLICY.
   (1)   Statutory authorization. Local government units are required to adopt
shoreland management ordinances in M.S. §§ 103F.201 to 103F.221, as it may be
amended from time to time. This Shoreland Overlay District chapter is adopted
pursuant to these authorizations and policies and the planning and zoning
enabling legislation in M.S. Ch. 462, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (2)   Policies. The uncontrolled use of shorelands of the city affects the
public health, safety and general welfare not only by contributing to pollution
of public waters, but also by impairing the local tax base. Therefore, it is in
the best interests of the public health, safety and welfare to provide for the
wise subdivision, use and development of shorelands of public waters. The
Legislature of Minnesota has delegated responsibility to local governments of
the state to regulate the subdivision, use and development of shorelands of
public waters and thus preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters,
conserve the economic and natural environmental values of shorelands, and
provide for the wise use of waters and related land resources. The
responsibility for the management of shoreland areas is hereby recognized by
the city.
(Ord. 04-95, passed 4-10-1995)
§ 1102.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (1)   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the
shorelands of the public water bodies as classified in §
1102.05 and as shown on the official zoning map of the city as being located
within the Shoreland Overlay District. A body of water created by a private
user where there was no previous shoreland may, at the discretion of the city,
be exempt from this chapter.
   (2)   Compliance. The use of any shoreland of public waters; the size and
shape of lots; the use, size, type and locations of structures on lots; the
installation and maintenance of water supply and waste treatment systems; the
grading and filling of any shoreland area; the cutting of shoreland vegetation;
and the subdivision of land shall be in full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (3)   Enforcement. The Zoning Administrator is responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter. Any violation of the provisions
of this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants
of variances or conditional uses) shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as defined by law. Violations of this chapter can occur regardless
of whether or not a permit is required for a regulated activity pursuant to §
1102.04(1).
   (4)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall
be liberally construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a
limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes. The
approximate boundaries of the Shoreland Overlay District are indicated on the
official zoning map of the city and attachments thereto. Exact determination of
the boundaries will be made by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources,
Division of Waters.
   (5)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
   (6)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter are
either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed
by any other law, ordinance, statute, resolution or regulation of any kind, the
regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or
requirements shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter
are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 04-95, passed 4-10-1995)
§ 1102.03 DEFINITIONS. 
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have in common
usage and so as to give this chapter its most reasonable application. For the
purpose of this chapter, the words MUST and SHALL are mandatory and not
permissive. All distances, unless otherwise specified, shall be measured
horizontally.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. Any building or improvement subordinate to
a principal use which, because of the nature of its use, can reasonable be
located at or greater than normal structure setbacks.
   BLUFF. A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff or embankment having the
following characteristics (an area with an average slope of less than 18% over
a distance for 50 feet or more shall not be considered part of the bluff):
      (a)   Part of all of the feature is located in a shoreland area;
      (b)   The slope rises at least 25 feet above the ordinary high water
level of the waterbody;
      (c)   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point 25 feet
or more above the ordinary high water level averages 30% or greater; and
      (d)   The slope must drain toward the waterbody.
   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A bluff and land located within 20 feet from the top of a
bluff.
   BOATHOUSE. An accessory structure designed and used solely for the storage
of boats and boating equipment.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to a lot line or the ordinary high water
level at the required setback beyond which a structure may not extend.
   CLEAR CUTTING. The removal of an entire stand of trees.
   COMMERCIAL USE. The principal use of land or buildings for the sale, lease,
rental or trade of products, goods and services.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A land use or development as defined by ordinance that
would not be appropriate generally but may be allowed with appropriate
restrictions as provided by official controls upon a finding that certain
conditions as detailed in the official Zoning Chapter exist, the use or
development conforms to the comprehensive land use plan of the community and
the use is compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   DECK. A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises or other features, attached or functionally related to a
principal use or site and at any point extending more than three feet above the
ground.
   DWELLING SITE. A designated location for residential use by one or more
persons using temporary or movable shelter, including camping and recreational
vehicle sites.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any structure or portion of a structure or other shelter
designed as short- or long-term living quarters for one or more persons,
including rental or timeshare accommodations such as motel, hotel, and resort
rooms and cabins.
   EXTRACTIVE USE. The use of land for surface or subsurface removal of sand,
gravel, rock, industrial minerals, other nonmetallic minerals and peat not
regulated under M.S. §§ 9.44 to 9.51, as it may be amended from time to time.
   FOREST LAND CONVERSION. The clear cutting of forested land to prepare for a
new land use other than reestablishment of a subsequent forest stand.
   HARDSHIP. The property in question cannot be put to a reasonable use if used
under conditions allowed by the official controls; the plight of the landowner
is due to circumstances unique to the property, not created by the landowner;
and the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of the
locality. Economic considerations alone shall not constitute a HARDSHIP if a
reasonable use for the property exists under terms of the official controls.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance between the highest adjoining
ground level at the building or ten feet above the lowest ground level,
whichever is lower, and the highest point of a flat roof or average height of
the highest gable of a pitch or hipped roof.
   INDUSTRIAL USE. The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage or transfer of goods, products, commodities
or other wholesale items.
   INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING. The complete removal of trees or shrubs in a
contiguous patch, strip, row or block.
   LOT. A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by plat,
subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be used developed or built
upon as a unit.
   LOT WIDTH. The shortest distance between lot lines measured at the midpoint
of the building line.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any legal use, structure or parcel of land already in
existence, recorded or authorized before the adoption of official controls or
amendments thereto that would not have been permitted to become established
under the terms of the official controls as now written, if the official
controls had been in effect prior to the date it was established, recorded or
authorized.
   OPEN SPACE. Undeveloped land of the subdivided property providing visual
expanses and recreational areas clear of obstructions other than natural
vegetation, or structures directly related to the use and enjoyment of these
spaces. OPEN SPACES may include natural habitats, places for neighborhood
recreation and pedestrian corridors.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL. The boundary of public waters and wetlands and
shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level which has been
maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A type of development characterized by a unified
site design for a number of dwelling units or dwelling sites on a parcel,
whether for sale, rent or lease, and also usually involving clustering of these
units or sites to provide areas of common open space, density increase, and a
mix of structure types and land uses. These developments may be organized and
operated as condominiums, time-share condominiums, cooperatives, full fee
ownership, commercial enterprises, or any combination of these, or cluster
subdivisions of dwelling units, residential condominiums, townhouses, apartment
buildings, campgrounds, recreational vehicle parks, resorts, hotels, motels and
conversions of structures and land uses to these uses.
   PUBLIC WATERS. Any waters as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, Subd. 15, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A use where the nature of residency is
nontransient and the major or primary focus of the development is not service-
oriented. For example, residential apartments, manufactured home parks, time-
share condominiums, townhouses, cooperatives and full fee ownership residences
would be considered as RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. To qualify as a
residential PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, a development must contain at least five
dwelling units or sites.
   RESORT PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. Typically uses that provide transient,
short-term lodging spaces, rooms or parcels and their operations are
essentially service-oriented. For example, hotel/motel accommodations, resorts,
recreational vehicle and camping parks, and other primarily service-oriented
activities are resort planned unit developments.
   SEMIPUBLIC USE. The use of land by a private, nonprofit organization to
provide a public service that is ordinarily open to some persons outside the
regular constituency of the organization.
   SENSITIVE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT. The preservation and management of areas
unsuitable for development in their natural state due to constraints such as
shallow soils over groundwater or bedrock, highly erosive or expansive soils,
steep slopes, susceptibility to flooding or occurrence of flora or fauna in
need of special protection.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, sewage
treatment system or other facility and an ordinary high water level, sewage
treatment system, road, highway, property line or other facility.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations, and force main and
all other construction, devices, appliances or appurtenances used for
conducting sewage or industrial waste or other wastes to a point of ultimate
disposal.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A septic tank and soil absorption system or other
individual or cluster type sewage treatment system as described and regulated
in §
1102.11 of this chapter.
   SHORE IMPACT ZONE. Land located between the ordinary high water level of a
public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the structure
setback.
   SHORELAND. Land located within 1,000 feet from the ordinary high water level
of the lakes and land located within 300 feet from the streams classified in §
1102.05 or the landward extent of a flood plain designated by ordinance on a
river or stream, whichever is greater. The limits of shorelands may be reduced
whenever the waters involved are bounded by topographic divides which extend
landward from the waters for lesser distances and when approved by the
Commissioner.
   SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITE. Any archaeological site, standing structure or
other property that meets the criteria for eligibility to the National Register
of Historic Places or is listed in the State Register of Historic Sites, or is
determined to be an unplatted cemetery that falls under the provisions of M.S.
§ 307.08, as it may be amended from time to time. An historic site meets these
criteria if it is presently listed on either register or if it is determined to
meet the qualifications for listing after review by the Minnesota state
archaeologist or the director of the Minnesota Historical Society. All
unplatted cemeteries are automatically considered to be SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC
SITES.
   STEEP SLOPE. Land where development is either not recommended or described
as poorly suited due to slope steepness and the site's soil characteristics as
mapped and described in available county. Soil surveys or other reports, unless
appropriate design and construction techniques and farming practices are used
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Where specific information
is not available, STEEP SLOPES are lands having average slopes over 12%, as
measured over horizontal distances of 50 feet or more that are not bluffs.
   STRUCTURE. Any building or appurtenance, including decks, mobile homes,
docks and boat launches, except aerial or underground utility lines, such as
sewer, electric, telephone, telegraph, gas lines, towers, poles and other
supporting facilities.
   SUBDIVISION. Land that is divided for the purpose of sale, rent or lease,
including planned unit developments.
   SURFACE WATER-ORIENTED COMMERCIAL USE. The use of land for commercial
purposes, where access to and use of a surface water feature is an integral
part of the normal conductance of business. Marinas, resorts and restaurants
with transient docking facilities are examples of that use.
   WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY, STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. A small, above ground
building or other improvement, except stairways, fences, docks and retaining
walls, which, because of the relationship of its use to a surface water
feature, reasonable needs to be located closer to public waters than the normal
structure setback. Examples of those structures and facilities include
boathouses, gazebos, screen houses, fish houses, pump houses and detached
decks.
(Ord. 04-95, passed 4-10-1995)
§ 1102.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (1)   Permits required.
      (a)   Permit required. A building permit is required for the construction
of buildings or building additions (including related activities such as
construction of decks and signs), the installation and/or alteration of sewage
treatment systems, and a grading permit for those grading and filling
activities not exempted by §
1102.09 of this chapter. Application for a permit shall be made to the Zoning
Administrator on forms provided. The application shall include the necessary
information so that the Zoning Administrator can determine the site's
suitability for the intended use and that a compliant sewage treatment system
will be provided.
      (b)   Permit stipulation. A building permit authorizing an addition to an
existing structure shall stipulate that an identified nonconforming sewage
treatment system, as defined in §
1102.11 shall be reconstructed or replaced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (2)   Certificate of zoning compliance. The Zoning Administrator shall issue
a certificate of zoning compliance for each activity requiring a permit as
specified in division (1) above of this section. This certificate will specify
that the use of land conforms to the requirements of this chapter. Any use,
arrangement or construction at variance with that authorized by permit shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter and shall be punishable as provided in §
1102.02(3) of this chapter.
   (3)   Variances.
      (a)   Variances may only be granted in accordance with M.S. Ch. 462, as
it may be amended from time to time, as applicable. A variance may not
circumvent the general purposes and intent of this chapter. No variance may be
granted that would allow any use that is prohibited in the zoning district in
which the subject property is located. Conditions may be imposed in the
granting of a variance to ensure compliance and to protect adjacent properties
and the public interest. In considering a variance request, the Zoning
Administrator must also consider whether the property owner has reasonable use
of the land without the variance, whether the property is used seasonally or
year-round, whether the variance is being requested solely on the basis of
economic considerations, and the characteristics of development on adjacent
properties.
      (b)   The City Council shall hear and decide requests for variances in
accordance with the rules that it has adopted for the conduct of business of
the City Zoning Chapter. When a variance is approved after the Department of
Natural Resources has formally recommended denial in the hearing record, the
notification of the approved variance required in division (4)(b) shall also
include the City Council's summary of the public record/testimony and the
findings of facts and conclusions which supported the issuance of the variance.
      (c)   For existing developments, the applications for variance must
clearly demonstrate whether a conforming sewage treatment system is present for
the intended use of the property. The variance, if issued, must require
reconstruction of a nonconforming sewage treatment system.
   (4)   Notification to the Department of Natural Resources.
      (a)   Copies of all notices of any public hearings to consider variances,
zoning amendments or conditional uses in the Shoreland Overlay District must be
sent to the Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources or the
Commissioner's designated representative and postmarked at least ten days
before the hearings. Notices of hearing to consider proposed subdivision/plats
must include copies of the subdivision/plat.
      (b)   A copy of approved amendments and subdivisions/plats and final
decisions granting variances or conditional uses in the Flood Plain or
Shoreland Management Districts must be sent to the Commissioner or the
Commissioner's designated representative and postmarked within ten days of
final action.
(Ord. 04-95, passed 4-10-1995)
§ 1102.05 SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (1)   Establishment of Shoreland Overlay District. The public waters of the
city have been classified consistent with the criteria found in Minnesota
Regulations, Part 6120.3300. The Shoreland Overlay District for the waterbodies
listed below is that land within 1,000 feet of the ordinary high water level of
the lakes and 300 feet from a river or stream as shown on the official zoning
map.
      (a)   Natural environment lakes.
Natural Environment Lakes Protected Water Inventory Ordinary High Water Level
                          I.D. #                    (OHWL)
Natural Environment Lakes Protected Water Inventory Ordinary High Water Level
                          I.D. #                    (OHWL)
Unnamed                   2-1
Peltier Lake              2-4                       884.7
George Watch Lake         2-5
Marshan Lake              2-7                       883.3
Rice Lake                 2-8                       883.1
Wards Lake                2-10                      883.7
Sherman Lake              2-11
Cedar Lake                2-12                      892.9
Amelia Lake               2-14                      908.1
Rondeau Lake              2-15
Wilkinson Lake            62-43                     895.2
 
      (b)   Recreational development lakes.
 
Recreational Development Protected Water Inventory Ordinary High Water Level
Lakes                    I.D. #                    (OHWL)
Otter Lake               2-3                       911.5
Centerville Lake         2-6                       885.0
Reshanau Lake            2-9                       883.5
Baldwin Lake             2-13                      883.1
 
      (c)   General development lake.
 
General Development Lake Protected Water Inventory Ordinary High Water Level
                         I.D. #                    (OHWL)
Bald Eagle Lake          62-2                      911.0
 
      (d)   Tributary rivers and streams.
 
Tributary Rivers and Streams Protected Watercourse Legal Description
Rice Creek                   From Basin 740 to Basin 13
Hardwood Creek               From T31N, R22W, Sect. 12 to Basin 4
 
   (2)   Establishment of official zoning map. The official zoning map,
together with all materials attached thereto is hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter. The attached material shall include the
protected waters inventory map for Anoka County. The official zoning map shall
be on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator.
   (3)   Land use district descriptions.
      (a)   Criteria for designation. The land use districts in division (3)(b)
below and the delineation of a land use district's boundaries on the official
zoning map must be consistent with the goals, policies and objectives of the
comprehensive land use plan.
      (b)   Land use district descriptions. The land use districts and the
allowable land uses therein for the given classifications of waterbodies shall
be properly delineated on the official zoning map for the shorelands of the
city. The designated land use districts shall be in conformance with the
criteria specified in Minnesota Regulations, Part 6120.3200, Subp. 3.
(Ord. 04-95, passed 4-10-1995)
§ 1102.06 SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT USES.
   (1)   Permitted uses. The permitted uses in the Shoreland Overlay District
are those uses allowed and regulated by the applicable underlying zoning
district as indicated on the official zoning map of the city.
   (2)   Conditional uses.
      (a)   The conditional uses in the Shoreland Overlay District are those
uses allowed and regulated on a conditional basis by the applicable underlying
zoning district as indicated on the official zoning map of the city.
      (b)   Evaluation criteria. A thorough evaluation of the waterbody and the
topographic, vegetation and soils conditions on the site must be made to
ensure:
         1.   The prevention of soil erosion or other possible pollution of
public waters, both during and after construction in accordance with
Chapter 1001 and
1005 and the Zoning
Chapter 1007 of the city code;
         2.   The visibility of structures and other facilities as viewed from
public waters is limited;
         3.   The site is adequate for water supply and on-site sewage
treatment; and
         4.   The types, uses and numbers of watercraft that the project will
generate are compatible in relation to the suitability of public waters to
safely accommodate these watercraft.
      (c)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. The city, upon
consideration of the criteria listed above and the purposes of this chapter,
shall attach the conditions to the issuance of the conditional use permits as
it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter and the City Zoning
Chapter. These conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
         1.   Increased setbacks from the ordinary high water level;
         2.   Limitations on the natural vegetation to be removed or the
requirement that additional vegetation be planted; and
         3.   Special provisions for the location, design and use of
structures, watercraft launching and docking areas and vehicle parking areas.
      (d)   City Council. The City Council shall hear and decide applications
for conditional uses permissible under this chapter in accordance with
conditional use permit approval process of the city code.
   (3)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (a)   The permitted accessory uses in the Shoreland Overlay District are
those uses allowed and regulated as accessory uses by the applicable underlying
zoning district as indicated on the official zoning map of the city.
      (b)   Water-oriented accessory structures are permitted when constructed
in accordance with the design criteria of §
1102.07(2)(b).
      (c)   Dock and boat launches are permitted provided they are constructed
on the same lot as the principal structure.
   (4)   Prohibited uses. Any uses which are not permitted or conditional uses
as regulated by the applicable underlying zoning district as indicated on the
official zoning map are not permitted.
(Ord. 04-95, passed 4-10-1995)
§ 1102.07 ZONING AND WATER SUPPLY/SANITARY PROVISIONS.
   (1)   Lot area and width standards. The following standards shall apply to
all lots within the Shoreland Overlay District, provided that the resulting
total development density in the shoreland area does not exceed the total city-
wide shoreland density allowed based on state shoreland standards. The city, in
its evaluation of any development, shall evaluate the proposed development in
light of the development capacity of the city-wide Shoreland Overlay District.
Where the requirements of the underlying zoning district are more or less
restrictive than those set forth herein, the more restrictive standards shall
apply.
      (a)   Residential (R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3, R-4) Zoning Districts.
 NE RD GD T
                                              NE     RD       GD       T
Lot Area per Unit:
   Unsewered* no unsewered in R-2, R-3, R- 10     10 acres 10 acres 10 acres
4 zones                                       acres
   Sewered abutting                                                 **
      Single-family                     20,000 20,000   20,000
      Two-family/duplex                 8,775  8.775    8,775
      Triplex/quad/townhome             6,000  6,000    6,000
   Sewer non-abutting                                               **
      Single-family                     10,800 10,800   10,800
      Two-family/duplex                 8,775  8,775    8,775
      Triplex/quad/townhome             5,000  5,000    5,000
Lot Width/Base Lot***
   Unsewered*                              330    330      330      330
   Sewered abutting
      Single-family                     80     80       80       80
      Two-family/duplex                 130    130      130      130
      Triplex/quad/townhome             130    130      130      130
   Sewered non-abutting
      Single-family                     80     80       80       130
      Two-family/duplex                 130    130      130      130
      Triplex/quad/townhome             130    130      130      130
*   Lot size requirement in unsewered area are delineated by the standards of
the base zoning districts.
**   Lot area and width requirements along rivers in sewered areas and
commercial zoning districts in sewered areas will be delineated by the
standards of the base zoning districts.
***   Lot widths shall be measured at both the front building setback line and
at the setback from the ordinary high water level.
 
      (b)   Commercial and Industrial (NB, LB, GB, CB, SC, LI, GI) Zoning
Districts.
 NE RD GD T
                                         NE     RD     GD     T
Lot area
   No unsewered commercial or industrial
   Sewered abutting
      Commercial                   1 acre 1 acre 1 acre **
      Industrial                   1 acre 1 acre 1 acre
   Sewered non-abutting
      Commercial                   **     **     **     **
      Industrial                   1 acre 1 acre 1 acre 1 acre
Lot widths***
   Sewered abutting
      Commercial                   100    100    100    100
      Industrial                   150    150    150    150
   Sewered non-abutting
      Commercial                   **     **     **     **
      Industrial                   150    150    150    150
*   Lot size requirement in unsewered area are delineated by the standards of
the base zoning districts.
**   Lot area and width requirements along rivers in sewered areas and
commercial zoning districts in sewered areas will be delineated by the
standards of the base zoning districts.
***   Lot widths shall be measured at both the front building setback line
and at the setback from the ordinary high water level.
 
      (c)   Additional special provisions.
         1.   Only land above the ordinary high water level of public waters
and outside existing watercourses can be used to meet the lot area standards.
         2.   The shoreland lot width standards must be met at both the
ordinary high water level and the building setback line.
         3.   All single-family, two-family, triplex, quadraminium, townhouse,
commercial and industrial subdivisions must provide a grading and drainage plan
for review and approval of the city engineer and Rice Creek Watershed District.
The grading and drainage plan shall include:
            a.   Compliance for the impervious surface standards of the
respective zoning district;
            b.   The subdivision or lot development shall provide for the
collection and treatment of storm water in compliance with the Lino Lakes local
storm water management plan if determined that the site improvements will
result in increased runoff directly entering a public water. All grading and
drainage plans shall require review and approval by the city engineer and the
Rice Creek Watershed District;
            c.   Measures to be taken for the treatment of storm water runoff
and/or prevention of storm water from directly entering a public water. The
measures may include, but not be limited to the following:
               i.   Appurtenances as sedimentation basins, debris basins,
desalting basins or silt traps;
               ii.   Installation of debris guards and microsilt basins on
storm sewer inlets;
               iii.   Use where necessary, oil skimming devices or sump catch
basins;
               iv.   Direct drainage away from the lake and into pervious,
grassed yards through site grading, use of gutters and downspouts;
               v.   Construct sidewalks and driveways of partially pervious
raised materials such as decking which has natural earth or other previous
material beneath or between the planking;
               vi.   Use grading and construction techniques which encourage
rapid-infiltration; for example, sand and gravel under impervious materials
with adjacent infiltration swales graded to lead into them; and/or
               vii.   Install berms, water bars or terraces which temporarily
detain water before dispersing it into pervious area.
         4.   Impervious surface coverage of lots must not exceed the following
percentages of lot area:
 
                       NE  RD  GD  R
Single-family          30% 30% 30% 30%
Two-family/duplex      30% 30% 30% 30%
Triplex/quad/townhomes 35% 35% 35% 35%
Commercial/industrial  60% 60% 60% 60%
 
         5.   Medium density residential, commercial and industrial structures,
parking areas and other facilities shall be treated to reduce visibility as
viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation, topography,
increased setbacks or color, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions. Vegetative
and topographic screening shall be preserved, if existing, or may be required
to be provided.
         6.   Accessory structures and facilities shall meet the required
principal structure setback and shall be centralized.
         7.   Multiple-family developments shall contain open space meeting the
following criteria:
            a.   At least 35% of the total development area shall be preserved
as open space;
            b.   Dwelling units or sites, land covered by road surfaces,
parking areas or structures are developed areas and shall not be included in
the computation of minimum open space;
            c.   Open space shall include areas with physical characteristics
unsuitable for development in their natural state and areas containing
significant historic sites or unplatted cemeteries; and
            d.   The shore impact zone, based on normal structure setbacks,
shall be included as open space. At least 50% of the shore impact zone area of
existing developments or at least 70% of the shore impact zone area of new
developments shall be preserved in its natural or existing state.
         8.   Residential subdivisions exceeding those permitted by the lot
area standards of this section can only be allowed if designed and approved as
a residential planned unit development under §
1102.13 of this chapter.
   (2)   Placement, design and height of structures.
      (a)   Placement of structures on lots. When more than one setback applies
to a site, structures and facilities must be located to meet all setbacks.
Where structures exist on the adjoining lots on both sides of a proposed
building site, structure setbacks may be altered without a variance to conform
to the adjoining setbacks from the ordinary high water level, provided the
proposed building site is not located in a shore impact zone. Structures shall
be located as follows.
         1.   Structure and on-site sewage system setbacks (in feet) from
ordinary high water level.
 
Classes of Public Waters    Structures        Sewage Treatment System
                            Unsewered Sewered
Lakes
   Natural environment   150       150     150
   Recreational developme100       75      75
   General development   75        50      50
Rivers and streams          100       50      75
 
*   One water-oriented accessory structure exclusive of one dock and lake
access individual lot, designed in accordance with division (2)(b) below of
this chapter may be set back a minimum distance of ten feet from the ordinary
high water level.
         2.   Additional structure setbacks. The following additional structure
setbacks apply, regardless of the classification of the water body:
 
Setback From:                                            Setback (in feet)
Top of bluff                                             30
Unplatted cemetery                                       50
Right-of-way line of federal, state or county highway    40
Right-of-way line of a town road, public street or other 30
roads or streets not classified
 
         3.   Uses without water-oriented needs. Uses without water-oriented
needs must be substantially screened from view from the water by vegetation or
topography, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
         4.   Exceptions to structure setback requirements. Accessory
structures may be located in the front yard of lakeshore properties upon
approval of a riparian lot variance.
      (b)   Design criteria for structures.
         1.   High water elevations.
            a.   Structures must be placed with the lowest floor three feet
above the (OHW) ordinary high water level in accordance with the local water
management plan for the City of Lino Lakes.
            b.   Water-oriented structures may have the lowest floor placed
lower than the elevation determined in the local water management plan if the
structure is constructed of flood-resistant materials to the elevation,
electrical and mechanical equipment is placed above the elevation and, if long
duration flooding is anticipated, the structure is built to withstand ice
action and wind-driven waves and debris.
         2.   Water-oriented accessory structures. Each lot may have one water-
oriented accessory structure not meeting the normal structure setback in
division (2)(a) above of this chapter if this water-oriented structure complies
with the following provisions:
            a.   The structure or facility must not exceed ten feet in height,
exclusive of safety rails and cannot occupy an area greater than 250 square
feet. Detached decks must not exceed eight feet above grade at any point;
            b.   The setback of the structure or facility from the ordinary
high water level must be at least ten feet;
            c.   The structure or facility must be treated to reduce visibility
as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation, topography,
increased setbacks or color, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions;
            d.   The roof may be used as a deck with safety rails, but must not
be enclosed or used as a storage area;
            e.   The structure or facility must not be designed or used for
human habitation and must not contain water supply or sewage treatment
facilities; and
            f.   Within the shoreland areas of general development and
recreational development waterbodies, water-oriented accessory structures used
solely for watercraft storage, and including storage or related boating and
water-oriented sporting equipment, may occupy an area up to 400 square feet
provided the maximum width of the structure is 20 feet as measured parallel to
the configuration of the shoreline.
         3.   Stairways, lifts and landings. Stairways and lifts are the
preferred alternative to major topographic alterations for achieving access up
and down steep slopes to shore areas. Stairways and lifts must meet the
following design requirements:
            a.   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties, public
open-space recreational properties and planned unit developments;
            b.   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not
exceed 32 square feet in area. Landings larger than 32 square feet may be used
for commercial properties, public open-space recreational properties and
planned unit developments;
            c.   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts or
landings;
            d.   Stairways, lifts and landings may be either constructed above
the ground on posts or pilings, or placed into the ground, provided they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion;
            e.   Stairways, lifts and landings must be located in the most
visually inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the
public water assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical; and
            f.   Facilities such as ramps, lifts, mobility paths for,
physically handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore
areas, provided that the dimensional and performance standards of division (2)
(b)1. to (2)(b)5. or complied with in addition to the requirements of Minnesota
Regulations, Chapter 1340.
         4.   Significant historic sites. No structure may be placed on a
significant historic site in a manner that affects the values of the site
unless adequate information about the site has been removed and documented in a
public repository.
         5.   Steep slopes. The Zoning Administrator must evaluate possible
soil erosion impacts and development visibility from public waters before
issuing a permit for construction of sewage treatment systems, roads,
driveways, structures or other improvements on steep slopes. When determined
necessary, conditions must be attached to issued permits to prevent erosion and
to preserve existing vegetation screening of structures, vehicles and other
facilities as viewed from the surface of public waters, assuming summer, leaf-
on vegetation.
      (c)   Height of structures. All structures shall not exceed 36 feet in
height, except churches and nonresidential agricultural structures.
(Ord. 04-95, passed 4-10-1995)
§ 1102.08 NONCONFORMITIES. 
   All legally established nonconformities as of the date of this chapter may
continue, but they will be managed according to applicable state statutes and
other regulations of the city for the subjects of alterations and additions,
repair after damage, discontinuance of use and intensification of use; except
that the following standards will also apply in the Shoreland Overlay District.
   (1)   Construction on nonconforming lots of record.
      (a)   Lots of record in the office of the county recorder prior to the
date of enactment of this chapter which do not meet the requirements of §
1102.07(1) may be allowed as building sites without variances from lot size
requirements, provided:
         1.   This use is permitted in the underlying zoning district;
         2.   The lot is and has been in separate ownership from abutting lands
at all times since it became substandard;
         3.   The lot was created compliant with official controls in effect at
the time;
         4.   All other dimensional requirements are complied with insofar as
practical; and
         5.   Sewage treatment and setback requirements of this chapter are
met.
      (b)   A variance from setback requirements must be obtained before any
use or building permit is issued for a lot. In evaluating the variance, the
City Council shall consider sewage treatment and water supply capabilities or
constraints of the lot and shall deny the variance if adequate facilities
cannot be provided.
      (c)   If, in a group of two or more contiguous lots under the same
ownership, any individual lot does not meet the requirements of §
1102.07(1), the lot must not be considered as a separate parcel of land for the
purposes of sale or development. The lot must be combined with the one or more
contiguous lots so they equal one or more parcels of land, each meeting the
requirements of §
1102.07 of this chapter as much as possible.
   (2)   Additions/expansions to nonconforming structures.
      (a)   All additions or expansions to the outside dimensions of an
existing nonconforming structure must meet the setback, height and other
requirements of this chapter. Any deviation from these requirements must be
authorized by a variance pursuant to §
1102.04(3).
      (b)   Deck additions may be allowed without a variance to a structure not
meeting the required setback from the ordinary high water level if all of the
following criteria and standards are met:
         1.   The structure existed on the date the structure setbacks were
established;
         2.   A thorough evaluation of the property and structure reveals no
reasonable location for a deck meeting or exceeding the existing ordinary high
water level setback of the structure;
         3.   The deck encroachment toward the ordinary high water level does
not exceed 15% of the existing setback of the structure from the ordinary high
water level or does not encroach closer than 30 feet, whichever is more
restrictive; and
         4.   The deck is constructed primarily of wood and is not roofed or
screened.
   (3)   Nonconforming sewage treatment systems.
      (a)   A sewage treatment system not meeting the requirements of §
1102.11 of this chapter must be upgraded, at a minimum, at any time a permit or
variance of any type is required for any improvement on, or use of, the
property. For the purposes of this provision, a sewage treatment system shall
not be considered nonconforming if the only deficiency is the sewage treatment
system's improper setback from the ordinary high water level.
      (b)   The governing body of the city has by formal resolution notified
the commissioner of its program to identify nonconforming sewage treatment
systems. The city will require upgrading or replacement of any nonconforming
system identified by this program within a reasonable period of time which will
not exceed two years. Sewage systems installed according to all applicable
local shoreland management standards adopted under M.S. § 103F.211, as it may
be amended from time to time, in effect at the time of installation may be
considered as conforming unless they are determined to be failing, except that
systems using cesspools, leaching pits, seepage pits or other deep disposal,
method or systems with less soils treatment area separation above groundwater
than required by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency's Chapter 7080 for
design of on-site sewage treatment systems shall be considered nonconforming.
(Ord. 04-95, passed 4-10-1995)
§ 1102.09 SHORELAND ALTERATIONS. 
   Alterations of vegetation and topography in the Shoreland Overlay District
will be regulated to prevent erosion into public waters, fix nutrients,
preserve shoreland aesthetics, preserve historic values, prevent bank slumping,
and protect fish and wildlife habitat.
   (1)   Vegetation alterations.
      (a)   Vegetation alteration necessary for the construction of structures,
sewage treatment systems, uses permitted in the underlying zoning district and
the construction of roads and parking areas regulated by division (3) below of
this chapter are exempt from the vegetation alteration standards that follow.
      (b)   Removal or alteration of natural vegetation, except for
agricultural and forest management uses as regulated in §
1102.10, shall be restricted to prevent erosion into protected waters, to
consume nutrients in the soil and to preserve shoreland aesthetic. Removal of
natural vegetation in the Shoreland Overlay District is allowed subject to the
following standards.
         1.   Clear cutting of natural vegetation is prohibited.
         2.   Limited clearing of trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning and
trimming of trees is allowed to provide a view to the water from the principal
dwelling site and to accommodate the placement of stairways and landings,
picnic areas, access paths, beach and watercraft access areas and permitted
water-oriented accessory structures or facilities, provided that:
            a.   The screening of structures, vehicles or other facilities as
viewed from the water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, is not
substantially reduced;
            b.   Along rivers, existing shading of water surfaces is preserved;
and
            c.   The above provision is not applicable to the removal of trees,
limbs or branches that are dead, diseased or pose safety hazards.
         3.   Natural vegetation shall be restored insofar as feasible after
any construction project is completed to retard surface runoff and soil
erosion.
         4.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to permitted uses
which normally require the removal of natural vegetation.
   (2)   Topographic alterations/grading and filling.
      (a)   Grading, filling and excavations necessary for the construction of
structures, sewage treatment systems, driveways and other uses permitted in the
underlying zoning district under validly issued construction permits for these
facilities do not require the issuance of a separate grading and filling
permit. However, the grading and filling standards in this section must be
incorporated into the issuance of permits for construction of structures,
sewage treatment systems and driveways.
      (b)   Public roads and parking areas are regulated by division (3) of
this chapter.
      (c)   Notwithstanding divisions (2)(a) and (2)(b) above, a grading and-
filling permit, in accordance with the City Zoning Chapter, will be required
for:
         1.   The movement of more than ten cubic yards of material on steep
slopes or within the shore impact zone; or
         2.   The movement of more than 50 cubic yards of material per acre.
      (d)   The following considerations and conditions must be adhered to
during the issuance of construction permits, grading and filling permits,
conditional use permits, variances and subdivision approvals:
         1.   Grading or filling in any wetland must be evaluated to determine
the extent of impact to the functions and values of the wetland area in
accordance with the city code. This evaluation must also include a
determination of whether the wetland alteration being proposed requires
permits, reviews or approvals by other local, state or federal agencies such as
a watershed district, a local governmental unit, the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources or the United States Army Corps of Engineers. The applicant
will be so advised.
         2.   Alterations must be designed and conducted in a manner that
ensures only the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for the shortest
time possible. Mulches or similar materials must be used, where necessary, for
temporary bare soil coverage and a permanent vegetation cover must be
established as soon as possible;
         3.   Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediments before
they reach any surface water feature must be used. Altered areas must be
stabilized to acceptable erosion control standards consistent with the field
office technical guides of the Anoka County Soil and Water Conservation
District and the United States Soil Conservation Service;
         4.   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in a manner that
creates an unstable slope. Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep
slopes must be reviewed by qualified professionals for continued slope
stability and must not create finished sloped of 30% or greater;
         5.   Any alterations below the ordinary high water level of the
waterbodies described in §
1002.05(1) must first be authorized by the Commissioner under M.S. § 103G.245,
as it may be amended from time to time;
         6.   Alterations of topography must only be allowed if they are
necessary to allow a defined permitted accessory or conditional use within the
underlying zoning district and do not adversely affect adjacent or nearby
properties; and
         7.   Placement of natural rock riprap, including associated grading of
the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is permitted if the finished
slope does not exceed three feet horizontal to one foot vertical, the landward
extent of the riprap is within ten feet of the ordinary high water level and
the height of the riprap above the ordinary high water level does not exceed
three feet.
      (e)   Connections to public waters. Excavations where the intended
purpose is connection to a public water, such as boat slips, canals, lagoons
and harbors, must be controlled by local shoreland controls. Permission for
excavations may be given only after the Commissioner has approved the proposed
connection to public waters.
   (3)   Placement and design of roads, driveways and parking areas.
      (a)   Public and private roads and parking areas must be designed to take
advantage of natural vegetation and topography to achieve maximum screening
from view from public waters. Documentation must be provided by a qualified
individual that all roads and parking areas are designed and constructed to
minimize and control erosion to public waters consistent with the Lino Lakes
local water management plan.
      (b)   Roads, driveways and parking areas must meet structure setbacks and
must not be placed within shore impact zones when other reasonable and feasible
placement alternatives exist. If no alternatives exist, they may be placed
within these areas and must be designed to minimize adverse impacts.
      (c)   Public and private watercraft access ramps, approach roads and
access-related parking areas may be placed within shore impact zones provided
the vegetative screening and erosion control conditions of this division are
met. For private facilities, the grading and filling provisions of division (2)
of this chapter must be met.
   (4)   Stormwater management.
      (a)   Impervious surface coverage of lots must not exceed the impervious
surface percentage of lot area outlined in §
1102.07 of this chapter.
      (b)   When possible, existing natural drainageways, wetlands and
vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter and retain
stormwater runoff before discharge to public waters.
      (c)   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that will
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion potential
and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be stabilized and
protected as soon as possible and facilities or methods used to retain sediment
on the site.
      (d)   When development density, topographic features and soil and
vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle stormwater runoff
using natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed facilities
such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes, waterways and
ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs using surface drainage,
vegetation and infiltration rather than buried pipes and man-made materials and
facilities. Residential, commercial and industrial subdivisions and site plans
shall provide for the collection and treatment of storm water in compliance
with the city storm water management plan if determined that the site
improvements will result in increased runoff directly entering a public water.
All grading and drainage plans shall require review and approval by the city
engineer and the Rice Creek Watershed District.
      (e)   When constructed facilities are used for stormwater management,
documentation must be provided by a qualified individual that they are designed
and installed consistent with the Lino Lakes local water management plan.
      (f)   Newly constructed stormwater outfalls to public waters must provide
for filtering or settling of suspended solids and skimming of surface debris
before discharge.
(Ord. 04-95, passed 4-10-1995)
§ 1102.10 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL, PUBLIC/SEMIPUBLIC,
AGRICULTURAL, FORESTRY AND EXTRACTIVE USES AND MINING OF METALLIC MINERALS AND
PEAT.
   (1)   Standards for commercial, industrial, public and semipublic uses.
Surface water-oriented commercial uses and industrial, public or semipublic
uses with similar needs to have access to and use of public waters may be
located on parcels or lots with frontage on public waters. Those uses with
water-oriented needs must meet the following standards:
      (a)   In addition to meeting impervious coverage limits, setbacks and
other zoning standards in this chapter, the uses must be designed to
incorporate topographic and vegetative screening of parking areas and
structures;
      (b)   Uses that require short-term watercraft mooring for patrons must
centralize these facilities and design them to avoid obstructions of navigation
and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the need; and
      (c)   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft may use signs
and lighting to convey needed information to the public, subject to the
following standards:
         1.   No advertising signs or supporting facilities for signs may be
placed in or upon public waters. Signs conveying information or safety messages
may be placed in or on public waters by a public authority or under a permit
issued by the Anoka County Sheriff;
         2.   Signs may be placed, when necessary, within the shore impact zone
if they are designed and sized to be the minimum necessary to convey needed
information. They must only convey the location and name of the establishment
and the general types of goods or services available. The signs must not
contain other detailed information such as product brands and prices, must not
be located higher than ten feet above the ground and must not exceed 32 square
feet in size. If illuminated by artificial lights, the lights must be shielded
or directed to prevent illumination out across public waters; and
         3.   Other outside lighting may be located within the shore impact
zone or over public waters if it is used primarily to illuminate potential
safety hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to prevent illumination
out across public waters. This does not preclude use of navigational lights.
   (2)   Agriculture use standards.
      (a)   General cultivation farming, grazing, nurseries, horticulture,
truck farming, sod farming and wild crop harvesting are permitted uses if steep
slopes and shore impact zones are maintained in permanent vegetation or
operated under an approved conservation plan consistent with the Lino Lakes
local water management plan, as provided by a qualified individual or agency.
The shore impact zone for parcels with permitted agricultural land uses is
equal to a line parallel to and 50 feet from the ordinary high water level.
      (b)   Animal feedlots must meet the following standards:
         1.   New feedlots must not be located in the shoreland of watercourses
and must meet a minimum setback of 300 feet from the ordinary high water level
of all public waters basins; and
         2.   Modifications or expansions to existing feedlots that are located
within 300 feet of the ordinary high water level are allowed if they do not
further encroach into the existing ordinary high water level setback.
   (3)   Forest management standards. The harvesting of timber and associated
reforestation must be conducted consistent with the provisions of the Minnesota
Nonpoint Source Pollution Assessment-Forestry and the provisions of Water
Quality in Forest Management "Best Management Practices in Minnesota."
   (4)   Extractive use standards.
      (a)   Site development and restoration plan. An extractive use site
development and restoration plan must be developed, approved and followed over
the course of operation of the site. The plan must address dust, noise,
possible pollutant discharges, hours and duration of operation and anticipated
vegetation and topographic alterations. It must also identify actions to be
taken during operation to mitigate adverse environmental impacts, particularly
erosion and must clearly explain how the site will be rehabilitated after
extractive activities end.
      (b)   Setbacks for processing machinery. Processing machinery must be
located consistent with setback standards for structures from ordinary high
water levels of public waters.
   (5)   Mining of metallic minerals and peat. Mining of metallic minerals and
peat, as defined in M.S. §§ 93.44 to 93.51, as they may be amended from time to
time, shall be a permitted use provided the provisions of M.S. §§ 93.44 to
93.51, as they may be amended from time to time, are satisfied.
(Ord. 04-95, passed 4-10-1995)
§ 1102.11 WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE TREATMENT.
   (1)   Water supply. Any public or private supply of water for domestic
purposes must meet or exceed standards for water quality of the Minnesota
Department of Health and the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   (2)   Sewage treatment. Any premises used for human occupancy must be
provided with an adequate method of sewage treatment as follows.
      (a)   Publicly-owned sewer systems must be used in accordance with
Chapter 402 of the city code. Any new buildings used for human habitation or
human occupancy, including businesses, located on property adjacent to a sewer
main or in a block through which the system extends, shall be connected to the
municipal sanitary sewer system.
      (b)   All private sewage treatment systems must meet or exceed the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency's standards for individual sewage treatment
systems contained in the document titled, "Individual Sewage Treatment Systems
Standards, Chapter 7080," as may be amended, a copy of which is hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
      (c)   On-site sewage treatment systems must be set back from the ordinary
high water level in accordance with the setbacks contained in §
1102.07 of this chapter.
      (d)   All proposed sites for individual sewage treatment systems shall be
evaluated in accordance with the criteria in divisions (2)(d)1. through (2)
(d)4. below. If the determination of a site's suitability cannot be made with
publicly available, existing information, it shall then be the responsibility
of the applicant to provide sufficient soil borings and percolation tests from
on-site field investigations. Evaluation criteria:
         1.   Depth to the highest known on calculated ground water table or
bedrock;
         2.   Soil conditions, properties and permeability;
         3.   Slope; and
         4.   The existence of lowlands, local surface depressions and rock
outcrops.
      (e)   Nonconforming sewage treatment systems shall be regulated and
upgraded in accordance with §
1102.08(3) of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-95, passed 4-10-1995)
§ 1102.12 SUBDIVISION/PLATTING PROVISIONS.
   (1)   Land suitability. Each lot created through subdivision, including
planned unit developments authorized under §
1102.13 of this chapter, must be suitable in its natural state for the proposed
use with minimal alteration. Suitability analysis by the City Council shall
consider susceptibility to flooding, existence of wetlands, soil and rock
formations with severe limitations for development, severe erosion potential,
steep topography, inadequate water supply or sewage treatment capabilities,
near-shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water-based recreation, important
fish and wildlife habitat, presence of significant historic sites or any other
feature of the natural land likely to be harmful to the health, safety or
welfare of future residents of the proposed subdivision or of the community.
   (2)   Consistency with other controls. Subdivisions must conform to all
official controls of this community. A subdivision will not be approved where a
later variance from one or more standards in official controls would be needed
to use the lots for their intended purpose. In areas not served by publicly
owned sewer and water systems, a subdivision will not be approved unless
domestic water supply is available and a sewage treatment system consistent
with §§
1102.08(3) and
1102.11 can be provided for every lot. Each lot shall meet the minimum lot size
and dimensional requirements of §
1102.07(1) including at least a minimum contiguous lawn area, that is free of
limiting factors sufficient for the construction of two standard soil treatment
systems. Lots that would require use of holding tanks shall not be approved.
(Ord. 04-95, passed 4-10-1995)
§ 1102.13 SHORELAND PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD).
   (1)   Types of PUDs permissible. Shoreland planned unit developments, as
defined in §
1102.03, are allowed for new projects on undeveloped land, redevelopment of
previously built sites or conversions of existing buildings and land.
   (2)   Processing of shoreland PUDs. Planned unit developments shall be
processed as a conditional use permit or a rezoning to PUD in accordance with
the City Zoning Code as well as the performance standards outlined herein.
   (3)   Application for a PUDs. The application for a PUD/CUP must submit the
following documents in addition to documents required by
Chapter 1001 of the city code and the City Zoning Code,
Chapter 1007, prior to final action being taken on the application request:
      (a)   A site plan and/or plat for the project showing locations of
property boundaries, surface water features, existing and proposed structures
and other facilities, land alterations, sewage treatment and water supply
systems where public systems will not be provided and topographic contours at
ten-foot intervals or less. When a PUD is a combined commercial and residential
development, the site plan and/or plat must indicate and distinguish which
buildings and portions of the project are residential, commercial or a
combination of the two.
      (b)   A property owners association agreement (for residential PUDs) with
mandatory membership and all in accordance with the requirements of division
(4)(c)3.
      (c)   Deed restrictions, covenants, permanent easements or other
instruments that:
         1.   Properly address future vegetative and topographic alterations,
construction of additional buildings, beaching of watercraft and construction
of commercial buildings in residential PUDs; and
         2.   Ensure the long-term preservation and maintenance of open space
in accordance with the criteria and analysis specified in division (4)(d).
      (d)   When necessary, a master plan/drawing describing the project and
the floor plan for all commercial structures to be occupied.
      (e)   Those additional documents as requested by the city that are
necessary to explain how the PUD will be designed and will function.
   (4)   Site "suitable area" evaluation. Suitable area for development within
a shoreland planned unit developments (PUDs) shall exclude all wetland,
watercourses, land below the ordinary high water level of public waters, public
street rights-of-way and public parks. This suitable area and the proposed
project are subject to PUD performance standards governing density and design.
      (a)   All PUDs must have access to public sanitary sewer and water.
      (b)   Lot area and width standards. The following lot are per unit
standards shall apply to all PUDs within the Shoreland Overlay District
provided that the resulting total development density in the shoreland area
does not exceed the total city-wide shoreland density allowed based on State of
Minnesota shoreland standards. The city, in its evaluation of any PUD, shall
evaluate the proposed PUD density in light of the development capacity of the
city-wide Shoreland Overlay District. Where the requirements of the underlying
zoning district are more or less restrictive than those set forth herein, the
more restrictive standards shall apply.
Residential (R-3, R-4 Zoning Districts)
 NE RD GD T
Residential (R-3, R-4 Zoning Districts)
                                                                 NE    RD    GD    T
Lot area:
   Townhomes                                                  5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
   Apartments/condominiums                                    2,900 2,900 2,900 2,900
Lot width:
   Townhomes                                                  150   130   130   130
   Apartments/condominiums                                    150   130   130   130
Setbacks:
   1.   OHWL                                                           200
                                                                             feet
   2.   Setback from streets:
      a.   Right-of-way line of federal, state or county highway    40
                                                                             feet
      b.   Local street                                             30
                                                                             feet
   3.   Side yard setback                                              20
                                                                             feet
   4.   Setback between buildings on multiple building site            35
                                                                             feet
   5.   Bluff setback                                                  50
                                                                             feet
 
      (c)   Maintenance and administration requirements.
         1.   Provisions for preservation and maintenance. Before final
approval of a planned unit development, adequate provisions must be developed
for preservation sand maintenance in perpetuity of open spaces and for the
continued existence and functioning of the development.
         2.   Open space preservation. Deed restrictions, covenants, permanent
easements, public dedication and acceptance or other equally effective and
permanent means must be provided to ensure long-term preservation and
maintenance of open space. The instruments must include all of the following
protections:
            a.   Commercial uses prohibited (for residential PUDs);
            b.   Vegetation and topographic alterations other than routine
maintenance prohibited;
            c.   Construction of additional buildings or storage of vehicles
and other materials prohibited; and
            d.   Uncontrolled beaching of watercraft prohibited.
         3.   Development organization and functioning. Unless an equally
effective alternative community framework is established, when applicable, all
residential planned unit developments must use an owners association with the
following features:
            a.   Membership must be mandatory for each dwelling unit or site
purchaser and any successive purchasers;
            b.   Each member must pay a pro rata share of the association's
expenses and unpaid assessments can become liens on units or sites;
            c.   Assessments must be adjustable to: accommodate changing
conditions; and
            d.   The association must be responsible for insurance, taxes and
maintenance of all commonly owned property and facilities.
      (d)   Open space requirements. Planned unit developments must contain
open space meeting of the following criteria:
         1.   At least 50% of the total project area must be preserved as open
space;
         2.   Dwelling units or sites, road rights-of-way or land covered by
road surfaces, parking areas or, structures, except water-oriented accessory
structures or facilities are developed areas and shall not be included in the
computation of minimum open space;
         3.   Open space must include areas with physical characteristics
unsuitable for development in their natural state and areas containing
significant historic sites or unplatted cemeteries;
         4.   Open space may include outdoor recreational facilities for use by
owners of dwelling units or sites, by guests staying in commercial dwelling
units or site and by the general public;
         5.   Open space must not include commercial facilities or uses, but
may contain water-oriented accessory structures or facilities;
         6.   The appearance of open space areas, including topography,
vegetation and allowable uses, must be preserved by use of restrictive deed
covenants, permanent easements, public dedication and acceptance or other
equally effective and permanent means; and
         7.   The shore impact zone, based on normal structure setbacks, must
be included as open space. For residential PUDs, at least 50% of the shore
impact zone area of existing developments or at least 70% of the shore impacts
zone area of new developments must be preserved in its natural or existing
state. For commercial PUDs, at least 50% of the shore impact zone must be
preserved in its natural state.
      (e)   Erosion control and stormwater management. Erosion control and
stormwater management plans must be developed and the PUD must:
         1.   Be designed, and the construction managed, to minimize the
likelihood of serious erosion occurring either during or after construction.
This must be accomplished by limiting the amount and length of time or bare
ground exposure. Temporary ground covers, sediment entrapment facilities,
vegetated buffer strips or other appropriate techniques must be used to
minimize erosion impacts on surface water features. Erosion control plans must
be in accordance with the Lino Lakes local water management plan and approved
by the City Council; and
         2.   Be designed and constructed to effectively manage reasonably
expected quantities and qualities of stormwater runoff. Impervious surface
coverage must not exceed 35% with an approved stormwater management plan and
consistency with §
1102.09.
      (f)   Centralization and design of facilities. Centralization and design
of facilities and structures must be done according to the following standards.
         1.   Planned unit developments must be connected to publicly owned
water supply and sewer systems.
         2.   Dwelling units or sites must be clustered into one or more groups
and located on suitable areas of the development. They must be designed and
located to meet or exceed the following dimensional standards for the relevant
shoreland classification, setback from the ordinary high water level, elevation
above the surface water features and maximum height.
         3.   Shore recreation facilities, including but not limited to
swimming areas, docks and watercraft mooring areas and launching ramps, must be
centralized and located in areas suitable for them. The shared lake access must
be approved by the City Council. Evaluation of suitability must include
consideration of land slope, water depth, vegetation, soils, depth to
groundwater and bedrock or other relevant factors. The number of spaces
provided for continuous beaching, mooring or docking of watercraft must not
exceed one for each allowable dwelling unit or site in the first tier
(notwithstanding existing mooring sites in an existing commercially used
harbor). Launching ramp facilities including a small dock for loading and
unloading equipment, may be provided for use by occupants of dwelling units or
sites located in other tiers.
         4.   Structures, parking areas and other facilities must be treated to
reduce visibility as viewed form public waters and adjacent shorelands by
vegetation, topography, increased setbacks, color or other means acceptable to
the City Council, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions. Vegetative and
topographic screening must be preserved, if existing, or may be required to be
provided.
         5.   Accessory structures and facilities, except water-oriented
accessory structures, must meet the required principal structural setbacks and
must be centralized.
         6.   Water-oriented accessory structures and facilities may be allowed
if they meet or exceed design standards contained in §
1102.07(2) of this chapter and are centralized.
   (5)   Conversions. The city may allow existing resorts or other land uses
and facilities to be converted to residential planned unit developments if all
of the following standards are met.
      (a)   Proposed conversions must be initially evaluated using the same
procedures for residential planned unit developments involving all new
construction. Inconsistencies between existing features of the development and
these standards must be identified.
      (b)   Deficiencies involving water supply and sewage treatment, structure
color, impervious coverage, open space and shore recreation facilities must be
corrected as part of the conversion or as specified in the conditional use
permit.
      (c)   Shore impact zone deficiencies must be evaluated and reasonable
improvements made as part of the conversion. These improvements must include,
where applicable, the following:
         1.   Removal of extraneous buildings, docks or other facilities that
no longer need to be located in shore impact zones;
         2.   Remedial measures to correct erosion sites and improve vegetative
cover and screening of buildings and other facilities as viewed from the water;
and
         3.   If existing dwelling units are located in shore impacts zones,
conditions shall be attached to approvals of conversions that preclude exterior
expansions in any dimension or substantial alterations. The conditions must
also provide for future relocation of dwelling units, where feasible, to other
locations, meeting all setback and elevation requirements when they are rebuilt
or replaced.
      (d)   1.   Existing dwelling unit or dwelling site densities that exceed
standards in division (4) may be allowed to continue but must not be allowed to
be increased, either at the time of conversion or in the future.
         2.   Efforts must be made during the conversion to limit impacts of
high densities by requiring seasonal use, improving vegetative screening,
centralizing shore recreation facilities, installing new sewage treatment
systems or other means.
(Ord. 04-95, passed 4-10-1995)
CHAPTER 1103: FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
1103.01   Statutory authorization, findings of fact and purpose
   
1103.02   General provisions
   
1103.03   Definitions
   
1103.04   Establishment of zoning districts
   
1103.05   Floodway District (FW)
   
1103.06   Flood Fringe District (FF)
   
1103.07   General Floodplain District (GF)
   
1103.08   Land development standards
   
1103.09   Public utilities, railroads, roads, and bridges
   
1103.10   Manufactured homes, manufactured home parks, recreational vehicle
parks and recreational vehicles
   
1103.11   Administration
   
1103.12   Nonconformities
   
1103.13   Amendments
 
   
1103.99   Penalties and enforcement
§ 1103.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE.
   (1)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the State of Minnesota
has, in M.S. Chs. 103F and 462, delegated the responsibility to local
government units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
   (2)   Purpose.
      (a)   This chapter regulates development in the flood hazard areas of the
city. These flood hazard areas are subject to the periodic inundation, which
may result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption
of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for
flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base. It is the purpose
of this chapter, to promote the public health, safety and general welfare by
minimizing these losses and disruptions.
      (b)   National Flood Insurance Compliance. This chapter is adopted to
comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood Insurance Program
codified as 44 C.F.R. pt. 59 - 78, as amended, so as to maintain the
community's eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program.
      (c)   This chapter is also intended to preserve the natural
characteristics and functions of watercourses and floodplains in order to
moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil
erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development.
(Ord. 10-15, passed 11-23-2015)
§ 1103.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (1)   Uses. This chapter adopts the floodplain maps applicable to the city
and includes three floodplain districts: floodway, flood fringe, and general
floodplain.
      (a)   Where floodway and flood fringe districts are delineated on the
floodplain maps, the standards of §
1103.05 or §
1103.06 will apply, depending on the location of a property.
      (b)   Locations where floodway and flood fringe districts are not
delineated on the floodplain maps are considered to fall within the General
Floodplain District. Within the General Floodplain District, the floodway
district standards in §
1103.05 apply unless the floodway boundary is determined, according to the
process outlined in §
1103.07. Once the floodway boundary is determined, the flood fringe district
standards in §
1103.06 may apply outside the floodway.
   (2)   Applicability. 
      (a)   This chapter applies to all lands within the jurisdiction of the
city shown on the official zoning map and/or the attachments to the map as
being located within the boundaries of the Floodway, Flood Fringe, or General
Floodplain Districts.
      (b)   The Floodway, Flood Fringe and General Floodplain Districts are
overlay districts that are superimposed on all existing zoning districts. The
standards imposed in the overlay districts are in addition to any other
requirements in the zoning ordinance. In case of a conflict, the more
restrictive standards will apply.
   (3)   Incorporation of maps by reference. The following maps together with
all materials are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of the
official zoning map and this chapter. The referenced material includes the
Flood Insurance Study for Anoka County, Minnesota, and Incorporated Areas and
the Flood Insurance Rate Map panels enumerated below, all dated December 16,
2015 and all prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. These
materials are on file in the office of the City Clerk and the Zoning
Administrator.
   (4)   Regulatory flood protection elevation. The regulatory flood protection
elevation (RFPE) is an elevation no lower than one foot above the elevation of
the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation caused by
encroachments on the flood plain that result from designation of a floodway.
   (5)   Interpretation. The boundaries of the zoning districts are determined
by scaling distances on the flood insurance rate map.
      (a)   Where a conflict exists between the floodplain limits illustrated
on the official zoning map and actual field conditions, the flood elevations
shall be the governing factor. The Zoning Administrator must interpret the
boundary location based on the ground elevations that existed on the site on
the date of the first national flood insurance program map showing the area
within the regulatory floodplain, and other available technical data.
      (b)   Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries will be
given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Board of Adjustment
and to submit their own technical evidence.
   (6)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants, deed
restrictions, or other private agreements. However, where this chapter imposes
greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All other
ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
the inconsistency only.
   (7)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This chapter does not imply that
areas outside of the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. The chapter does not
create liability on the part of the city or its officers or employees for any
flood damage that may result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made under it.
   (8)   Annexations. The flood insurance rate map panels adopted by reference
into §
1103.02(3) above may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the corporate
boundaries of the city at the time of adoption of this chapter. If any of these
floodplain land areas are annexed into the city after the date of adoption of
this chapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands will be subject to the
provisions of this chapter immediately upon the date of annexation.
(Ord. 10-15, passed 11-23-2015)
§ 1103.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
must be interpreted according to common usage and so as to give this chapter
its most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation of the regional flood. The term BASE
FLOOD ELEVATION is used in the flood insurance study.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of the
depth of excavation below ground level.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A specific type of structure or land use listed in the
official control that may be allowed but only after an in-depth review
procedure and with appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in the
official zoning controls or building codes and upon finding that:
      (a)   Certain conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist; and
      (b)   The structure and/or land use conform to the comprehensive land use
plan, if one exists, and are compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   CRITICAL FACILITIES. Facilities necessary to a community's public health and
safety, those that store or produce highly volatile, toxic or water-reactive
materials, and those that house occupants that may be insufficiently mobile to
avoid loss of life or injury. Examples of critical facilities include
hospitals, correctional facilities, schools, daycare facilities, nursing homes,
fire and police stations, wastewater treatment facilities, public electric
utilities, water plants, fuel storage facilities, and waste handling and
storage facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or
materials.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
   FARM FENCE. A fence as defined by M.S. § 344.02 Subd. 1(a) - (d). An open
type fence of posts and wire is not considered to be a structure under this
chapter. Fences that have the potential to obstruct flood flows, such as chain
link fences and rigid walls, are regulated as structures under this chapter.
   FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the stage
of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry areas.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway. Flood
fringe is synonymous with the term FLOODWAY FRINGE used in the Flood Insurance
Study for Anoka County, Minnesota.
   FLOODPLAIN. The beds proper and areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building's lowest floor.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along, across or projecting
into any channel, watercourse or regulatory floodplain which may impede, retard
or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching
or collecting debris carried by the water.
   ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOODPLAIN. Lands inundated by the REGIONAL FLOOD. (See
definition.)
   PRINCIPAL USE OR STRUCTURE. All uses or structures that are not accessory
uses or structures.
   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by a natural or man-made obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge crossings
would most typically constitute a reach.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. For the
purposes of this chapter, the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE is synonymous with the
term TRAVEL TRAILER/TRAVEL VEHICLE.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 1% chance
or 100-year recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term
BASE FLOOD used in the Flood Insurance Study.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (RFPE). An elevation not less than one
foot above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood
elevation caused by encroachments on the flood plain that result from
designation of a floodway.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. A term used for flood insurance purposes
synonymous with ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOODPLAIN.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, recreational
vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in §
1103.10(2)(b) of this chapter and other similar items.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
where the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the
start of construction of the improvement. This term includes structures that
have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
      (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure. For the purpose of this chapter, HISTORIC STRUCTURE is as
defined in 44 C.F.R. pt. 59.1.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the strict provisions of this chapter as applied
to a specific piece of property in order to provide relief for a property owner
because of exceptional hardship imposed upon the property by this chapter. A
VARIANCE shall normally be limited to height, density and yard requirements. A
modification in the allowable uses within a district shall not be considered a
VARIANCE.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Community Development Director, or assigns, who is
charged with the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-15, passed 11-23-2015)
§ 1103.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (1)   Districts.
      (a)   Floodway District. The Floodway District includes those areas
designated as floodway on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
1103.02(3). For lakes, wetlands and other basins, the Floodway District
includes those areas designated as Zone A or AE on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
that are at or below the ordinary high water level as defined in M.S. §
103G.005, Subd. 14.
      (b)   Flood Fringe District. The Flood Fringe District includes those
areas designated as flood fringe on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
1103.02(3), as being within Zone AE but being located outside of the floodway.
For lakes, wetlands and other basins (that do not have a floodway designated),
the Flood Fringe District includes those areas designated as Zone A or AE on
the Flood Insurance Rate Map panels adopted in §
1103.02(3) that are below the 1% annual chance (100-year) flood elevation but
above the ordinary high water level as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, Subd. 14.
      (c)   General Floodplain District. The General Floodplain District
includes those areas designated as Zone A or Zone AE without a floodway on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
1103.02(3), but not subject to the criteria in divisions (1)(a) and (b) above.
   (2)   Compliance. Within the floodplain districts established in this
chapter, the use of any land, the use, size, type and location of structures on
lots, the installation and maintenance of transportation, utility, water supply
and waste treatment facilities, and the subdivision of land must comply with
the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. All uses not listed
as permitted uses or conditional uses in §
1103.05,
1103.06, and
1103.07, respectively, shall be prohibited. In addition, a caution is provided
here that:
      (a)   New and replacement manufactured homes and certain recreational
vehicles are subject to the general provisions of this chapter and specifically
§
1103.10 and
Ch. 1007: Zoning Code.
      (b)   Modifications, additions, structural alterations, normal
maintenance and repair, or repair after damage to existing nonconforming
structures and nonconforming uses of structures or land are regulated by the
general provisions of this chapter and specifically §
1103.12 and
Ch. 1007: Zoning Code.
      (c)   As-built elevations for elevated or flood-proofed structures must
be certified by ground surveys and flood-proofing techniques must be designed
and certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as specified
in the general provision of this chapter and specifically as stated in §
1103.11.
      (d)   Critical facilities, as defined in §
1103.03, are prohibited in all floodplain districts.
(Ord. 10-15, passed 11-23-2015)
§ 1103.05 FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW).
   (1)   Permitted uses. The following uses, subject to the standards set forth
in §
1103.05(2), are permitted uses if otherwise allowed in the underlying base
zoning district or any applicable overlay district:
      (a)   General farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming and wild crop harvesting.
      (b)   Industrial-commercial loading areas, parking areas and airport
landing strips.
      (c)   Open space uses, including but not limited to private and public
golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds,
boat launching ramps, seasonal docks, swimming areas, parks, wildlife and
nature preserves, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves, hunting and
fishing areas, and single- or multiple-purpose recreational trails.
      (d)   Residential lawns, gardens, parking areas and play areas as long as
no permanent structures are constructed.
      (e)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines and
pipelines, provided that the Department of Natural Resources' Area Hydrologist
is notified at least ten days prior to issuance of any permit, and that the
standards in divisions (4)(a), (4)(c)1., and (4)(f) of this section are met.
   (2)   Standards for floodway permitted uses.
      (a)   The use must have a low flood damage potential.
      (b)   With the exception of the uses listed in division (1)(e), the use
must not obstruct flood flows or increase flood elevations and must not involve
structures, fill, obstructions, excavations or storage of materials or
equipment.
      (c)   Any facility that will be used by employees or the general public
must be designed with a flood warning system that provides adequate time for
evacuation if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity such that the depth
(in feet) multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) would exceed a
product of four upon occurrence of the regional (1% chance) flood.
   (3)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed as conditional
uses following the standards and procedures set forth in §
1103.11(4) of this chapter and further subject to the standards set forth in
division (4), if otherwise allowed in the underlying zoning district or any
applicable overlay district.
      (a)   Structures accessory to the uses listed in division (1) and the
uses listed below.
      (b)   Extraction and storage of sand, gravel and other materials.
      (c)   Marinas, boat rentals, permaent docks, piers, wharves and water
control structures,
      (d)   Storage yards for equipment, machinery or materials.
      (e)   Placement of fill or construction of fences that obstruct flood
flows. Farm fences, as defined in §
1103.03, are permitted uses.
      (f)   Travel-ready recreational vehicles meeting the exemption standards
in §
1103.10(3).
      (g)   Levees or dikes intended to protect agricultural crops for a
frequency flood event equal to or less than the 10-year frequency flood event.
   (4)   Standards for floodway conditional uses.
      (a)   All uses. A conditional use must not cause any increase in the
stage of the 1% chance or regional flood or cause an increase in flood damages
in the reach or reaches affected.
      (b)   Fill; storage of materials and equipment.
         1.   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited.
         2.   Fill, dredge spoil, and other similar materials deposited or
stored in the floodplain must be protected from erosion by vegetative cover,
mulching, riprap or other acceptable method. Permanent sand and gravel
operations and similar uses must be covered by a long-term site development
plan.
         3.   Temporary placement of fill, other materials, or equipment which
would cause an increase to the stage of the 1% percent chance or regional flood
may only be allowed if the City Council has approved a plan that assures
removal of the materials from the floodway based upon the flood warning time
available.
      (c)   Accessory structures.
         1.   Accessory structures must not be designed for human habitation.
         2.   Accessory structures, if permitted, must be constructed and
placed on the building site so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow
of flood waters:
            a.   Whenever possible, structures must be constructed with the
longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow; and
            b.   So far as practicable, structures must be placed approximately
on the same flood flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
         3.   Accessory structures shall be elevated on fill or structurally
dry floodproofed in accordance with the FP-1 or FP-2 flood-proofing
classifications in the State Building Code. All floodproofed accessory
structures must meet the following additional standards:
            a.   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement and designed to equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls; and
            b.   Any mechanical and utility equipment in the structure must be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or properly
floodproofed.
         4.   As an alternative, an accessory structure may be internally/wet
floodproofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 flood-proofing classification in the State
Building Code, provided the accessory structure constitutes a minimal
investment, does not exceed 576 square feet in the size. A detached garage may
only be used for parking of vehicles and limited storage. All flood-proofed
accessory structures must meet the following standards:
            a.   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure, there
must be a minimum of two automatic openings in the outside walls of the
structure, with a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding; and
            b.   There must be openings on at least two sides of the structure
and the bottom of all openings must be no higher than one foot above the lowest
adjacent grade to the structure. Using human intervention to open a garage door
prior to flooding will not satisfy this requirement for automatic openings.
      (d)   Structural works for flood control that will change the course,
current or cross section of protected wetlands or public waters are subject to
the provisions of M.S. § 103G.245.
      (e)   A levee, dike or floodwall constructed in the floodway must not
cause an increase to the 1% chance or regional flood. The technical analysis
must assume equal conveyance or storage loss on both sides of a stream.
      (f)   Floodway developments must not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system.
(Ord. 10-15, passed 11-23-2015)
§ 1103.06 FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (FF).
   (1)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses are those uses of land or structures
allowed in the underlying zoning district(s) that comply with the standards in
division (2).
   (2)   Standards for flood fringe permitted uses.
      (a)   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated on
fill so that the lowest floor, as defined, is at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for structures must be no
lower than one foot below the regulatory flood protection elevation and the
fill must extend at the same elevation at least 15 feet beyond the outside
limits of the structure.
         1.   All service utilities, including ductwork, must be elevated or
water-tight to prevent infiltration of floodwaters.
         2.   As an alternative to elevation on fill, an accessory structure
that constitutes a minimal investment and that does not exceed 576 square feet
in size may be internally floodproofed in accordance with §
1103.05(4)(c).
      (b)   The cumulative placement of fill or similar material on a parcel
must not exceed 1,000 cubic yards, unless the fill is specifically intended to
elevate a structure in accordance with division (2) of this section, or if
allowed as a conditional use under division (3)(c) below.
      (c)   The storage of any materials or equipment must be elevated on fill
to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (d)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited.
      (e)   Fill must be properly compacted and the slopes must be properly
protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable method.
      (f)   All new principal structures must have vehicular access at or above
an elevation not more than two feet below the regulatory flood protection
elevation, or must have a flood warning /emergency evacuation plan acceptable
to the City Council.
      (g)   Accessory uses such as yards, railroad tracks, and parking lots may
be at an elevation lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation.
However, any facilities used by employees or the general public must be
designed with a flood warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation
if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity such that the depth (in feet)
multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) would exceed a product of four
upon occurrence of the regional (1% chance) flood.
      (h)   Interference with normal manufacturing/industrial plant operations
must be minimized, especially along streams having protracted flood durations.
In considering permit applications, due consideration must be given to the
needs of industries with operations that require a floodplain location.
      (i)   Flood fringe developments must not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system.
      (j)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles must meet the
standards of §
1103.10 of this chapter.
   (3)   Conditional uses. The following uses and activities may be allowed as
conditional uses, if allowed in the underlying zoning district(s) or any
applicable overlay district, following the procedures in §
1103.11(4) of this chapter.
      (a)   Any structure that is not elevated on fill or floodproofed in
accordance with division (2)(a) of this section.
      (b)   Storage of any material or equipment below the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
      (c)   The cumulative placement of more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill
when the fill is not being used to elevate a structure in accordance with
division (2)(a) of this chapter.
   (4)   Standards for flood fringe conditional uses.
      (a)   The standards listed in divisions (2)(d) through (j) apply to all
conditional uses.
      (b)   Basements, as defined by §
1103.03 of this chapter, are subject to the following:
         1.   Residential basement construction is not allowed below the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
         2.   Non-residential basements may be allowed below the regulatory
flood protection elevation provided the basement is structurally dry
floodproofed in accordance with division (4)(c) of this section.
      (c)   All areas of nonresidential structures, including basements, to be
placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation must be floodproofed in
accordance with the structurally dry floodproofing classifications in the State
Building Code. Structurally dry floodprooflng must meet the FP-1 or FP-
2 floodproofing classification in the State Building Code, which requires
making the structure watertight with the walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water and with structural components capable of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy. Structures wet
floodproofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 classification are not permitted.
      (d)   The placement of more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill or other
similar material on a parcel (other than for the purpose of elevating a
structure to the regulatory flood protection elevation) must comply with an
approved erosion/sedimentation control plan.
         1.   The plan must clearly specify methods to be used to stabilize the
fill on site for a flood event at a minimum of the regional (1% chance) flood
event.
         2.   The plan must be prepared and certified by a registered
professional engineer or other qualified individual acceptable to the City
Council.
         3.   The plan may incorporate alternative procedures for removal of
the material from the floodplain if adequate flood warning time exists.
      (e)   Storage of materials and equipment below the regulatory flood
protection elevation must comply with an approved emergency plan providing for
removal of such materials within the time available after a flood warning.
      (f)   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill may be
utilized to elevate a structure's lowest floor above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. These alternative methods may include the use of stilts,
pilings, parallel walls, etc., or above-grade, enclosed areas such as crawl
spaces or tuck under garages. The base or floor of an enclosed area shall be
considered above-grade and not a structure's basement or lowest floor if:
         1.   The enclosed area is above-grade on at least one side of the
structure;
         2.   It is designed to internally flood and is constructed with flood
resistant materials; and
         3.   It is used solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage. The above-noted alternative elevation methods are subject to the
following additional standards:
            a.   Design and certification. The structure's design and as-built
condition must be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
as being in compliance with the general design standards of the State Building
Code and, specifically, that all electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities must be at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation or be designed to prevent flood water
from entering or accumulating within these components during times of flooding.
            b.   Specific standards for above-grade, enclosed areas. Above-
grade, fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages must be
designed to internally flood and the design plans must stipulate:
               i.   The minimum area of openings in the walls where internal
flooding is to be used as a floodproofing technique. There shall be a minimum
of two openings on at least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all
openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade. The automatic openings
shall have a minimum net area of not less than one square inch for every square
foot of enclosed area subject to flooding unless a registered professional
engineer or architect certifies that a smaller net area would suffice. The
automatic openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters without any form of human intervention; and
               ii.   That the enclosed area will be designed of flood resistant
materials in accordance with the FP-3 or FP-4 classifications in the State
Building Code and shall be used solely for building access, parking of vehicles
or storage.
(Ord. 10-15, passed 11-23-2015)
§ 1103.07 GENERAL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT (GF).
   (1)   Permitted uses.
      (a)   The uses listed in §
1103.05(1) of this chapter.
      (b)   All other uses are subject to the floodway/flood fringe evaluation
criteria specified in division (2) below. Section
1103.05 applies if the proposed use is determined to be in the Floodway
District. Section 1103.06 applies if the proposed use is determined to be in
the Flood Fringe District.
   (2)   Procedures for floodway and flood fringe determinations.
      (a)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit or other approval
within the General Floodplain District, the Zoning Administrator must obtain,
review and reasonably utilize any regional flood elevation and floodway data
available from a federal, state, or other source.
      (b)   If regional flood elevation and floodway data are not readily
available, the applicant must furnish additional information, as needed, to
determine the regulatory flood protection elevation and whether the proposed
use would fall within the Floodway or Flood Fringe District. Information must
be consistent with accepted hydrological and hydraulic engineering standards
and the standards in division (c)3. below.
      (c)   The determination of floodway and flood fringe must include the
following components, as applicable:
         1.   Estimate the peak discharge of the regional (1% chance) flood.
         2.   Calculate the water surface profile of the regional flood based
upon a hydraulic analysis of the stream channel and overbank areas.
         3.   Compute the floodway necessary to convey or store the regional
flood without increasing flood stages more than one-half foot. A lesser stage
increase than one-half foot is required if, as a result of the stage increase,
increased flood damages would result. An equal degree of encroachment on both
sides of the stream within the reach must be assumed in computing floodway
boundaries.
      (d)   The Zoning Administrator will review the submitted information and
assess the technical evaluation and the recommended Floodway and/or Flood
Fringe District Boundary. The assessment must include the cumulative effects of
previous floodway encroachments. The Zoning Administrator may seek technical
assistance from a designated engineer or other expert person or agency,
including the Department of Natural Resources. Based on this assessment, the
Zoning Administrator may approve or deny the application.
      (e)   Once the Floodway and Flood Fringe District boundaries have been
determined, the Zoning Administrator must process the permit application
consistent with the applicable provisions of §§
1103.05 and
1103.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-15, passed 11-23-2015)
§ 1103.08 LAND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (1)   In general. Recognizing that flood prone areas may exist outside of
the designated floodplain districts, the requirements of this section apply to
all land within the city.
   (2)   Subdivisions. No land may be subdivided which is unsuitable for
reasons of flooding or inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment
facilities. Manufactured home parks and recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds are considered subdivisions under this chapter.
      (a)   All lots within the floodplain districts must be able to contain a
building site outside of the Floodway District at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
      (b)   All subdivisions must have road access both to the subdivision and
to the individual building sites no lower than two feet below the regulatory
flood protection elevation, unless a flood warning emergency plan for the safe
evacuation of all vehicles and people during the regional (1% chance) flood has
been approved by the City Council. The plan must be prepared by a registered
engineer or other qualified individual, and must demonstrate that adequate time
and personnel exist to carry out the evacuation.
      (c)   For all subdivisions in the floodplain, the floodway and flood
fringe district boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation and the
required elevation of all access roads must be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
      (d)   In the General Floodplain District, applicants must provide the
information required in §
1103.07(2) of this chapter to determine the regional flood elevation, the
floodway and flood fringe district boundaries and the regulatory flood
protection elevation for the subdivision site.
      (e)   If a subdivision proposal or other proposed new development is in a
flood prone area, any such proposal must be reviewed to assure that:
         1.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage within the flood prone area;
         2.   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
         3.   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure of flood hazard.
   (3)   Building sites. If a proposed building site is in a flood prone area,
all new construction and substantial improvements (including the placement of
manufactured homes) must be:
      (a)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
floatation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (b)   Constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage;
      (c)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
and
      (d)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
(Ord. 10-15, passed 11-23-2015)
§ 1103.09 PUBLIC UTILITIES, RAILROADS, ROADS, AND BRIDGES.
   (1)   Building site. All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, sewer, and water supply systems to be located in the floodplain
must be floodproofed in accordance with the State Building Code or elevated to
the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (2)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads, and bridges
to be located within the floodplain must comply with §§
1103.05 and
1103.06 of this chapter. These transportation facilities must be elevated to
the regulatory flood protection elevation where failure or interruption of
these facilities would result in danger to the public health or safety or where
such facilities are essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or
auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where
failure or interruption of transportation services would not endanger the
public health or safety.
   (3)   On-site water supply and sewage treatment systems. Where public
utilities are not provided:
      (a)   On-site water supply systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems;
      (b)   New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into flood waters and they must not be subject
to impairment or contamination during times of flooding; and
      (c)   Any sewage treatment system designed in accordance with the state's
current statewide standards for on-site sewage treatment systems is considered
to be in compliance with this section.
(Ord. 10-15, passed 11-23-2015)
§ 1103.10 MANUFACTURED HOMES, MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE
PARKS, AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (1)   Manufactured home parks. New manufactured home parks and expansions to
existing manufactured home parks are prohibited in any floodplain district.
   (2)   Manufactured homes.
      (a)   The placement or replacement of manufactured home units are
prohibited in the Floodway District.
      (b)   The placement or replacement of manufactured home units in the
Flood Fringe District is subject to the requirements of §
1103.06 of this chapter and the following standards:
         1.   New and replacement manufactured homes must be elevated in
compliance with §
1103.06 of this chapter and must be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top
or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable
state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
         2.   New or replacement manufactured homes in existing manufactured
home parks must meet the vehicular access requirements for subdivisions in §
1103.08(2)(b).
   (3)   Recreational vehicle parks. New recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds and expansions to existing recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds are prohibited in any floodplain district. Placement of
recreational vehicles in existing recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds in
the floodplain must meet the exemption criteria below or be treated as new
structures meeting the requirements of §
1103.10(4)(b) in this section.
   (4)   Recreational vehicles.
      (a)   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter if they are placed in any of the following areas and meet the criteria
listed in division (4)(b):
         1.   Individual lots or parcels of record;
         2.   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds;
and
         3.   Existing condominium-type associations.
      (b)   Criteria for exempt recreational vehicles.
         1.   The vehicle must have a current license required for highway use;
         2.   The vehicle must be highway ready, meaning on wheels or the
internal jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities commonly used in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks;
         3.   No permanent structural type additions may be attached to the
vehicle;
         4.   The vehicle and associated use must be permissible in any pre-
existing, underlying zoning district;
         5.   Accessory structures are not permitted within the Floodway
District. Any accessory structure in the Flood Fringe District must be
constructed of flood-resistant materials and be securely anchored, meeting the
requirements applicable to manufactured homes in division (4)(b); and
         6.   An accessory structure must constitute a minimal investment.
      (c)   Recreational vehicles that are exempt in division (4)(b) lose this
exemption when development occurs on the site that exceeds a minimal investment
for an accessory structure such as a garage or storage building. The
recreational vehicle and all accessory structures will then be treated as new
structures subject to the elevation and floodproofing requirements of §
1103.06 of this chapter. No development or improvement on the parcel or
attachment to the recreational vehicle is allowed that would hinder the removal
of the vehicle should flooding occur.
(Ord. 10-15, passed 11-23-2015)
§ 1103.11 ADMINISTRATION.
   (1)   Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall administer this
chapter.
   (2)   Permit requirements.
      (a)   Permit required. A permit must be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator prior to conducting the following activities, in the floodplain:
         1.   The erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation, or
alteration of any building, structure or portion thereof. Normal maintenance
and repair also requires a permit if such work, separately or in conjunction
with other planned work, constitutes a substantial improvement as defined in
this chapter;
         2.   The use or change of use of a building, structure or land;
         3.   The construction of a dam, fence, or on-site septic system,
although a permit is not required for a farm fence as defined by this chapter;
         4.   The change or extension of a nonconforming use;
         5.   The repair of a structure that has been damaged by flood, fire,
tornado, or any other source;
         6.   The placement of fill, excavation of materials or the storage of
materials or equipment within the floodplain;
         7.   Relocation or alteration of a watercourse, including new or
replacement culverts and bridges, unless a public waters work permit has been
applied for; and/or
         8.   Any other type of development as defined in this chapter.
      (b)   Application for permit. Permit applications must be submitted to
the Zoning Administrator on forms provided by the Zoning Administrator. The
permit application must include the following as applicable:
         1.   A site plan showing all pertinent dimensions, elevations,
existing or proposed buildings, structures, and significant natural features
having an influence on the permit.
         2.   Location of fill or storage of materials in relation to the
stream channel.
         3.   Copies of any required municipal, county, state or federal
permits or approvals.
         4.   Other relevant information requested by the Zoning Administrator
as necessary to properly evaluate the permit application.
      (c)   Certificate of zoning compliance for new, altered, or nonconforming
use. No building, land or structure may be occupied or used in any manner until
a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued by the Zoning Administrator
stating that the use of the building or land conforms to the requirements of
this chapter.
      (d)   Certification. The applicant is required to submit certification by
a registered professional engineer, registered architect or registered land
surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were accomplished in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Floodproofing measures must be
certified by a registered professional engineer or registered architect.
      (e)   Record of first floor elevation. The Zoning Administrator shall
maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new structures and alterations or additions to existing structures in the
floodplain. The Zoning Administrator must also maintain a record of the
elevations to which structures and alterations or additions to structures are
floodproofed.
      (f)   Notification for watercourse alterations. Before authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a river or stream, the Zoning Administrator must
notify adjacent communities. If the applicant has applied for a permit to work
in public waters pursuant to the M.S. § 103G.245, this will suffice as adequate
notice. A copy of the notification must also be submitted to the Chicago
Regional Office of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
      (g)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease
base flood elevations. As soon as practicable, but not later than six months
after the date such supporting information becomes available, the Zoning
Administrator must notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the changes by
submitting a copy of the relevant technical or scientific data.
   (3)   Variances. An application for a variance to the provisions of this
chapter will be processed in accordance with Ch. 1007: Zoning Code and reviewed
in accordance with the following:
      (a)   Adherence to state floodplain management standards. A variance must
not allow a use that is not allowed in that district, permit a lower degree of
flood protection than the regulatory flood protection elevation for the
particular area, or permit standards lower than those required by state law.
      (b)   Additional variance criteria. The following additional variance
criteria of the Federal Emergency Management Agency must be satisfied:
         1.   Variances must not be issued by a community within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
         2.   Variances may only be issued by a community upon:
            a.   Showing of good and sufficient cause;
            b.   Determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            c.   Determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         3.   Variances may only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (c)   Flood insurance notice. The Zoning Administrator must notify the
applicant for a variance that:
         1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         2.   Such construction below the base or regional flood level
increases risks to life and property. Such notification must be maintained with
a record of all variance actions.
      (d)   Factors used in decision making. In passing variance applications,
the City Council must consider all relevant factors specified in other sections
of this chapter and those factors identified in division (5) of this section.
      (e)   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of Natural Resources
(DNR). The Zoning Administrator must submit hearing notices for proposed
variances to the DNR sufficiently in advance to provide at least ten days'
notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail
to the respective DNR area hydrologist.
      (f)   Submittal of final decisions to the DNR. A copy of all decisions
granting variances must be forwarded to the DNR within ten days of such action.
The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the respective DNR
area hydrologist.
      (g)   Record-keeping. The Zoning Administrator must maintain a record of
all variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and must
report such variances in an annual or biennial report to the Administrator of
the National Flood Insurance Program, when requested by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (4)   Conditional uses.
      (a)   Application. An application for a conditional use permit under the
provisions of this chapter will be processed and reviewed in accordance with
Chapter 1007: Zoning Code, in addition to the following supplemental
information:
         1.   Determination of flood hazards. Upon receipt of an application
for a conditional use permit for a use within the Flood Plain Overlay District
where the regulatory flood protection elevation is unknown, the applicant shall
be required to furnish the following information as is deemed necessary by the
Zoning Administrator for the determination of the regulatory flood protection
elevation:
            a.   A typical cross section showing the channel of the stream,
elevation of land areas adjoining each side of the channel, cross-sectional
areas to be occupied by the proposed development and high water information;
            b.   Plan (surface view) showing elevations or contours of the
ground; pertinent structures, fill or storage elevations; size, location and
spatial arrangement of all proposed and existing structures on the site;
location and elevation of streets; photographs showing existing land uses and
vegetation upstream and downstream; and soil type; and
            c.   Profile showing the slope of the bottom of the channel or flow
line of the stream for at least 500 feet in either direction from the proposed
development.
         2.   One copy of the above information shall be transmitted to a
designated engineer or other expert person or agency for technical assistance
in determining whether the proposed use adversely affects the capacity of the
flood plain and to determine the regulatory flood protection elevation.
Procedures consistent with Minnesota Regulations NR 86-87 shall be followed in
this expert evaluation. The designated engineer or expert shall:
            a.   Estimate the peak discharge of the regional flood;
            b.   Calculate the water surface profile of the regional flood
based upon a hydraulic analysis of the stream channel and overbank areas; and
            c.   Compute the area necessary to convey the regional flood
without increasing flood stages more than one-half foot. An equal degree of
encroachment on both sides of the stream within the reach shall be assumed in
computing the area of the regional flood.
         3.   Based upon the technical evaluation of the designated engineer or
expert, the City Council shall determine whether the proposed use adversely
affects the capacity of the flood plain or the regional flood protection
elevation at the site.
      (b)   Factors used in decision making. In passing upon conditional use
applications, the City Council must consider all relevant factors specified in
other sections of this chapter and those factors identified in division (5) of
this section.
      (c)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. The City Council
may attach such conditions to the granting of the conditional use permits as it
deems necessary to fulfill the purpose of this chapter. These conditions may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
         1.   Modification of waste treatment and water supply facilities;
         2.   Limitations on period of use, occupancy and operation;
         3.   Imposition of operations, controls, sureties and deed
restrictions;
         4.   Requirements of construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees and other protective measures; and
         5.   Flood-proofing measures, in accordance with the State Building
Code and this chapter. The applicant must submit a plan or document certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect that the flood-proofing
measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation, the
local water management plan and associated flood factors for the particular
area.
      (d)   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of Natural Resources
(DNR). The Zoning Administrator must submit hearing notices for proposed
conditional uses to the DNR sufficiently in advance to provide at least ten
days' notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S.
Mail to the respective DNR area hydrologist.
      (e)   Submittal of final decisions to the DNR. A copy of all decisions
granting conditional uses must be forwarded to the DNR within ten days of such
action. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the
respective DNR area hydrologist.
   (5)   General considerations. The community shall consider the following
factors in granting variances and imposing conditions on variances and
conditional uses in floodplains:
      (a)   The potential danger to life and property due to increased flood
heights or velocities caused by encroachments;
      (b)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others;
      (c)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems, if any, and the
ability of these systems to minimize the potential for disease, contamination
and unsanitary conditions;
      (d)   The susceptibility of any proposed use and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (e)   The importance of the services to be provided by the proposed use
to the community;
      (f)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
      (g)   The availability of viable alternative locations for the proposed
use that are not subject to flooding;
      (h)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
      (i)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive land use
plan and flood plain management program for the area;
      (j)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (k)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters expected at the site.
(Ord. 10-15, passed 11-23-2015)
§ 1103.12 NONCONFORMITIES.
   Continuance of nonconformities. A use, structure, or occupancy of land which
was lawful before the passage or amendment of this chapter but which is not in
conformity with the provisions of this section may be continued subject to the
following conditions. Historic structures, as identified in §
1103.03 of this chapter, are subject to the provisions of division (1) through
(7) below.
   (1)   A nonconforming use, structure, or occupancy must not be expanded,
changed, enlarged or altered in a way that increases its flood damage potential
or degree of obstruction to flood flows except as provided in division (2)
below. Expansion or enlargement of uses, structures or occupancies within the
Floodway District is prohibited.
   (2)   Any addition or structural alteration to a nonconforming structure or
nonconforming use that would result in increasing its flood damage potential
must be protected to the regulatory flood protection elevation in accordance
with any of the elevation on fill or floodproofing techniques (i.e., FP-
1 through FP-4 floodproofing classifications) allowable in the State Building
Code, except as further restricted in (3) and (7) below.
   (3)   If the cost of all previous and proposed alterations and additions
exceeds 50% of the market value of the nonconforming structure, then the entire
structure must meet the standards of §
1103.05 or §
1103.06 of this chapter for new structures depending upon whether the structure
is in the Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively. The cost of all
structural alterations and additions must include all costs such as
construction materials and a reasonable cost placed on all manpower or labor.
   (4)   If any nonconforming use, or any use of a nonconforming structure, is
discontinued for more than one year, any future use of the premises must
conform to this chapter.
   (5)   If any nonconformity is substantially damaged, as defined in §
1103.03 of this chapter, it may not be reconstructed except in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter. The applicable provisions for establishing new
uses or new structures in §
1103.05 or §
1103.06 will apply depending upon whether the use or structure is in the
Floodway or Flood Fringe, respectively.
   (6)   If any nonconforming use or structure experiences a repetitive loss,
as defined in §
1103.03 of this chapter, it must not be reconstructed except in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (7)   Any substantial improvement, as defined in §
1103.03 of this chapter, to a nonconforming structure requires that the
existing structure and any additions must meet the requirements of §
1103.05 or §
1103.06 of this chapter for new structures, depending upon whether the
structure is in the Floodway or Flood Fringe District.
(Ord. 10-15, passed 11-23-2015)
§ 1103.13 AMENDMENTS.
   (1)   Floodplain designation; restrictions on removal. The floodplain
designation on the official floodplain map must not be removed from floodplain
areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in error or that the area
has been filled to or above the elevation of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the floodplain. Special exceptions
to this rule may be permitted by the Commissioner of the Department of Natural
Resources (DNR) if the Commissioner determines that, through other measures,
lands are adequately protected for the intended use.
   (2)   Amendments require DNR approval. All amendments to this chapter must
be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of the Department of Natural
Resources prior to adoption. The Commissioner must approve the amendment prior
to community approval.
   (3)   Map revisions require ordinance amendments. The floodplain district
regulations must be amended to incorporate any revisions by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency to the floodplain maps adopted in §
1103.02(3) of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-15, passed 11-23-2015)
§ 1103.99 PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (1)   Violation constitutes a misdemeanor. Violation of the provisions of
this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants
of variances or conditional uses) constitute a misdemeanor and will be
punishable as defined by law.
   (2)    Nothing in this chapter restricts the city from such taking other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. If the
responsible party does not appropriately respond to the Zoning Administrator
within the specified period of time, each additional day that lapses shall
constitute an additional violation of this chapter and shall be prosecuted
accordingly.
   (3)   Enforcement. In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the
Zoning Administrator and city may utilize the full array of enforcement actions
available to it including but not limited to prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a
request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The city must act in good faith to enforce
these official controls and to correct ordinance violations to the extent
possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
      (a)   When a violation is either discovered by or brought to the
attention of the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall
immediately investigate the situation and document the nature and extent of the
violation of the official control. As soon as is reasonably possible, this
information will be submitted to the appropriate State Department of Natural
Resources and Federal Emergency Management Agency regional office along with
the city's plan of action to correct the violation to the degree possible.
      (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this chapter and all other official controls and the nature and
extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If the structure and/or
use is under construction or development, the Zoning Administrator may order
the construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted by the community. If the construction or development is
already completed, then the Zoning Administrator may either:
         1.   Issue an order identifying the corrective actions that must be
made within a specified time period to bring the use or structure into
compliance with the official controls; or
         2.   Notify the responsible party to apply for and after-the-fact
permit/development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed 30
days.
(Ord. 10-15, passed 11-23-2015)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   SALE, CONVEYANCE OR EXCHANGE OF PROPERTY
         
II.   FRANCHISES
         
III.   VACATIONS
         
IV.   EASEMENTS
         
V.   ZONING
TABLE I: SALE, CONVEYANCE OR EXCHANGE OF PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
11-94       7-25-1994   Sale of city property to UDOR, USA.
06-95       4-24-1995   Sale of city property in Apollo Business Park to Nol-
                        Tec Systems.
10-95       6-12-1995   Sale of city property to Mag-Con, Inc.
16-95       9-25-1995   Sale of city property to Bill Fogerty and Custom
                        Remodeling.
21-95       11-27-1995  Sale of city property to UDOR, USA.
01-96       2-26-1996   Sale of city property in Apollo Business Park to
                        Progressive Engineering Technology, Inc.
06-96       6-10-1996   Sale of city property in Apollo Business Park to
                        Emergency Apparatus Maintenance.
04-97       3-10-1997   Sale of city property in Apollo Business Park to
                        Fogerty Investments.
06-97       3-24-1997   Sale of property to Fairview Hospital and Healthcare
                        services.
03-97       4-28-1997   Sale of city property in Lexington Park Lakeview to
                        Anoka County Community Action Program.
23-97       9-8-1997    Sale of city property in Apollo Business Park to Rice
                        Industries, Inc.
24-97       9-8-1997    Sale of city property in the Village to Lino Lakes Banc
                        Shares, Inc.
16-98       1-11-1999   Sale of property to Kathy Hansmann and Lakeland
                        National Bank.
04-99       4-12-1999   Authorizing exchange of land by the city with James and
                        Tracey Douglas.
                        Offering for sale city property in Behm's Century Farm
16-99       7-12-1999   Park in exchange for the development of the remaining
                        park area.
19-99       7-26-1999   Sale of city property in Carole's Estates to Blaine
                        American Legion.
04-00       3-27-2000   Sale of city property in Apollo Business Park to Nol-
                        Tec Systems.
06-00       5-28-2000   Sale of city property in Rice Lakes Estates to Joe
                        Meyer Homes.
18-01       10-22-2001  Sale of city property to Ryan Companies.
22-01       12-11-2001  Conveying city property to facilitate the realignment
                        of a public trail in the West Shadow Ponds development.
15-04       5-24-2004   Authorizing the conveyance of property formerly known
                        as Black Duck Lift Station.
20-04       7-26-2004   Sale of property to Legacy Holdings Lino Lakes, LLC.
21-04       9-13-2004   Sale of city property in the Village to Fairview Health
                        Services.
11-05       - -2005     Sale of city property in the Village to YMCA of Greater
                        St. Paul.
12-06       11-27-2006  Reconveying Outlot F, D Erickson Second Addition to the
                        State of Minnesota.
13-09       11-23-2009  Approving the sale of Outlot B, Highland Meadows West
                        3rd Addition.
Res. 12-111 11-13-2012  Approving the reconveyance of Outlot A, Wollan Estates,
                        to the State of Minnesota.
Res. 15-54  5-11-2015   Accepting donation of 3.17 acre parcel from George
                        Reiling to the City of Lino Lakes.
10-16       9-12-2016   Approving the sale of land to Dupont Holdings, LLC.
02-17       4-10-2017   Approving the sale of land to American Legion Post 566.
04-21       6-14-2021   Approving the sale of land to Vaquero Ventures
                        Management, LLC.
09-23       9-11-2023   Approving sale of land to Java Companies, LLC.
11-23       10-9-2023   Approving sale of land to TS Miller Co. (Rice
                        Industries, Inc.)
                       
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Table has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 04-25, adopted 3-10-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
10-98      8-24-1998   Amending Ordinance 83-08, franchise term, cable
                       franchise.
03-99      3-22-1999   Amending Ordinance 83-08, franchise term, cable
                       franchise.
14-00      10-23-2000  Granting a nonexclusive natural gas franchise to Reliant
                       Energy Minnegasco.
11-02      10-28-2002  Granting a cable television franchise to Mediaone North
                       Central Communication Corp. and AT&T Broadband.
09-12      11-26-2012  Granting a nonexclusive natural gas franchise to Circle
                       Pines Utilities, d.b.a. Centennial Utilities.
                       Granting a nonexclusive natural gas franchise to
6-12       2-25-2013   Centerpoint Energy Resources Corp., d.b.a. Centerpoint
                       Energy Minnesota Gas.
01-15      1-26-2015   Amending Ordinance 83-08, franchise term, cable
                       franchise.
                       Conditionally granting consent to the transfer of
Res. 15-01 1-12-2015   control of cable television franchise and cable
                       television system from Comcast Corporation to Greatland
                       Connections, Inc.
13-15      12-28-2015  Granting a cable television franchise to Qwest Broadcast
                       Services, Inc., d/b/a CenturyLink.
                      
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
18-99    10-11-1999  Vacating road right-of-way and drainage easement Behm's
                     Century Farm, Fifth Addition.
22-99    1-10-2000   Vacating 77th Street right-of-way dedicated as part of the
                     Carole's Estates.
07-00    5-8-2000    Vacating of 79th Street, replatted as Highland Meadows
                     West.
08-00    5-22-2000   Vacating of 74th Street between Apollo Drive and Jon
                     Avenue.
13-00    10-24-2000  Vacating Elmcrest Avenue right-of-way from 400 feet south
                     of Main Street to Cedar Avenue.
17-00    1-8-2001    Vacating a portion of Lois Lane right-of-way dedicated as
                     part of the Mar Don Acres plat.
02-02    4-8-2002    Vacating a portion of Fox Trail, Shenandoah Second
                     Addition.
05-02    6-24-2002   Vacation of Cree Lane, Shenandoah Third Addition.
14-03    5-27-2003   Vacating portion of Carl Street right-of-way.
15-03    6-9-2003    Vacating portion of Pinto Lane right-of-way.
08-05    9-26-2005   Vacating North Road right-of-way, Rice Lake Professional
                     Center.
06-06    6-12-2006   Vacating portions of the North Road and Sunrise Drive
                     right-of-way.
                     Vacating a portion of the drainage and utility easements
04-07    5-14-2007   on Lots 6 and 7, Block 1 of the recorded plat Oakwood View
                     and accepting new drainage and utility easements.
13-07    10-22-2007  Vacating permanent roadway easement of Tract C of
                     Registered Land Survey No. 182.
18-07    1-28-2008   Vacating portions of two drainage and utility easements
                     Lot 9, Block 1, Oakwood View.
17-07    2-11-2008   Vacating a portion of the drainage and utility easement on
                     Lot 16, Block 4 of the recorded plat Park Grove.
06-10    5-10-2010   Vacating drainage and utility easement at 1612 Birch
                     Street.
06-11    3-28-2011   Vacating drainage and utility easement, Lot 5, Block 2,
                     Century Farm North 4th Addition.
12-11    7-11-2011   Vacating a playground easement on Lot 1, Block 1 of
                     Village No. 3 (YMCA).
                     Vacating a drainage and utility easement over, under and
03-13    5-13-2013   across part of Lot 4, Block 1, and Outlot A of Village No.
                     4.
11-15    11-9-2015   Vacating a drainage and utility easement in Outlot C and
                     Outlot D, NorthPointe.
05-16    7-25-2016   Vacating the drainage and utility easement on Outlot B,
                     North Pointe 3rd Addition.
08-16    9-12-2016   Vacating drainage and utility easement on Outlot B and
                     Outlot D, the Village No. 3.
                     Vacating drainage and utility easement on Outlot A,
04-17    5-8-2017    NorthPointe 3rd Addition and Outlot C, NorthPointe 4th
                     Addition.
05-17    7-10-2017   Vacating drainage and utility easement Outlot D,
                     NorthPointe 5th Addition.
08-19    7-8-2019    Vacating right-of-way, drainage, and utility easement on
                     Saddle Club 4th Addition.
                     Vacating street easement on the east half of the SE
04-20    7-27-2020   Quarter of the NE Quarter of Section 24, Township 31,
                     Range 22, Anoka County.
                     Vacating drainage and utility easement dedicated over,
05-20    11-9-2020   under, and across Lot 14, Block 2, Northpointe 2nd
                     Addition.
01-21    1-25-2021   Vacating Oaks of Lino Park property.
                     Vacating a portion of the Lois Lane street right-of-way
02-21    4-12-2021   dedicated over, under, and across Lot 1, Block 4, Mar Don
                     Acres.
01-24    1-22-2024   Vacating drainage and utility easement at 6049 Sargent
                     Court North, Lot 7, Block 1, Otter Bay.
06-24    5-28-2024   Vacating drainage and utility easement at 202 Elm Street,
                     Lot 1, Block 1, Bald Eagle Addition, Anoka County.
08-24    5-28-2024   Vacating a utility easement at 6590 12th Avenue.
09-24    6-10-2024   Vacating a trail easement on the Shores of Marshan Lake.
10-24    7-22-2024   Vacating a drainage and utility easement at Outlot C,
                     Watermark 5th Addition, Anoka County.
14-24    11-25-2024  Vacating a portion of 77th Street, between Marilyn Drive
                     and CSAH 23 (Lake Drive).
                    
 
TABLE IV: EASEMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Table has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 05-25, adopted 4-28-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Table has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 11-25, adopted 6-23-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
06-99       3-22-1999   Vacating roadway, utility and other easements
                        originally platted as part of the Arbor Lake Plat.
05-99       4-12-1999   Vacating roadway easements, Clearwater Creek Third
                        Addition.
15-99       6-28-1999   Vacating a drainage and utility easement on Lots 2 and
                        3, Block 1, Willow Ponds.
Res. 17-99  2-14-2000   Vacating a drainage and utility easement on Lot 2,
                        Block 1, Oak Brook Peninsula.
                        Vacating a portion of an easement across Lots 2, 3, 4,
16-00       10-9-2000   and 5, Block 1, Pheasant Hills Preserve Eighth
                        Addition.
07-01       5-29-2001   Vacating a portion of an easement across Lot 11, Block
                        1, Lino Air Park North.
                        Vacating a drainage easement and accepting another
01-02       1-28-2002   drainage easement Lot 1, Block 10, Lakes Addition No.
                        3.
04-02       7-8-2002    Vacating a drainage and utility easement, Molin
                        Concrete.
                        Vacating a drainage and utility easement on Lots 3 and
09-02       10-14-2002  4, Block 1, Pheasant Hills Ninth Addition, Brausen
                        property.
12-02       10-28-2002  Vacating a ponding easement on property located at Lot
                        11, Block 2, Sunset Oaks, 73 Lilac Street.
02-03       1-27-2003   Vacating trail easement at Timberwolf Trail, Pheasant
                        Hills Ninth Addition.
                        Vacating a portion of a drainage and utility easement
03-03       2-10-2003   on Lot 2, Block 2, Pheasant Hills Preserve Fourth
                        Addition.
06-03       3-10-2003   Vacating a drainage and utility easement on Outlot A,
                        Spirit Hills.
09-03       4-28-2003   Conveying an easement interest to Anoka County.
22-03       11-24-2003  Vacating an ingress and egress easement within the area
                        of the Ravens Hollow Development.
                        Vacating certain drainage and utility easements on Lots
01-04       1-26-2004   6, 7, and 8, Block 1 and Lot 1, Block 3 Mar Don
                        Estates.
                        Vacating a drainage and utility easement on Outlot A,
08-04       3-14-2004   Highland Meadows East to provide for the development of
                        Highland Meadows East Second Addition.
06-04       4-12-2004   Vacating a portion of a drainage and utility easement
                        across Lot 18, Block 4, D. Erickson Second Addition.
07-04       6-14-2004   Vacating 2 ponding and flowage easements at Oakwood
                        View and Rice Creek Covenant Church, 125 Ash Street.
09-04       6-28-2004   Vacating certain street, storm sewer, drainage, and
                        utility easements, Millers Crossroads.
23-04       11-8-2004   Vacating a drainage and utility easement across Lot 13,
                        Block 2, Black Duck Estates.
                        Vacating part of drainage and utility easement and
14-05       1-9-2006    accepting replacement easement on Lot 1, Block 2,
                        Pheasant Hills Preserve Ninth Addition.
01-06       2-27-2006   Vacating drainage and utility easement Lois Lane and
                        accepting new easement.
09-13       9-9-2013    Vacating a portion of the drainage and utility easement
                        on Lot 6, Block 2, Clearwater Creek (2235 Arthur Court)
                        Accepting roadway, drainage and utility easement from
Res. 15-33  4-13-2015   Comcast CCH Subsidiairy Holdings, Inc. relating to
                        Saddle Club first addition.
Res. 15-37  4-13-2015   Approving the exchange of an easement for fee title to
                        NSP right- of-way.
Res. 15-41  4-13-2015   Approving grant of conservation easement and approval
                        of subordination agreement Wollan Park Wetland Bank.
                        Granting wetland and buffer easement to RCWD and
Res. 15-45  4-27-2015   approving wetland buffer maintenance agreement to Lino
                        Lakes Fire Station.
                        Authorizing the acquisition of temporary and permanent
Res. 15-73  7-13-2015   easements: Birch Street Utility and Turn Lane
                        Improvements.
03-15       7-13-2015   Vacating entirely the drainage and utility easement on
                        Lot 24, Block 1, Turnberry Crossing.
Res. 16-15  3-14-2016   Acquiring an easement Well No. 6 pump house.
Res. 16-28  4-25-2016   Approving Well 6 easement acquisition.
Res. 16-34  5-9-2016    Authorizing the conveyance of a permanent easement
                        parcel 5 PE Anoka County Plat No. 96.
Res. 16-41  5-23-2016   Approving conveyance of conservation easement to Dupont
                        Holdings, LLP.
Res. 16-55  6-13-2016   Approving easement acquisition Old Birch St. cul-de-
                        sac.
08-17       9-25-2017   Vacating in its entirety the drainage easement over
                        wetlands at 520 62nd Street.
Res. 17-101 9-25-2017   Approving amendment to grant of easement at 520 62nd
                        Street.
12-17       11-27-2017  Vacating a portion of the drainage and utility easement
                        on Lot 2, Block 1, in the plat of St. Clair Estates.
01-18       1-22-2018   Vacating the drainage and utility easement on Lot 1,
                        Block 1, in the plat of Pine Glen.
02-18       2-26-2018   Vacating a portion of the drainage and utility easement
                        on Lot 15, Block 2, Northpointe 2nd Addition.
Res. 18-29  3-26-2018   Right-of-way easement from Great River Energy over
                        portion of Holly Drive East.
03-18       5-29-2018   Vacating a portion of the drainage and utility easement
                        on Outlot B, Northpointe 5th Addition.
Res. 18-88  7-23-2018   Authorizing acquisition of permanent easements for 2018
                        Trunk Watermain and Trail Project.
Res. 18-159 11-13-2018  Authorizing acquisition of permanent easement, 49 & J
                        Trunk Utility improvements.
12-24       8-26-2024   Vacating a portion of drainage and utility easement at
                        904 Kelly Street.
15-24       11-25-2024  Vacating a portion of a drainage and utility easement
                        at 1057 Black Duck Court.
                       
 
TABLE V: ZONING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 10-25, adopted 6-09-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a45815e8db1bd4be1ce9f6b1f883c87dd414204e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2618.png]Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new
legislation (Ord. 13-25, adopted 7-28-2025). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
14-  8-22-  Rezoning Trapper's Crossing Planned Development Overlay.
94   1994
15-  9-26-  Rezoning Behm's Century Farms from Rural (R) to Single-Family Residential
94   1994   (R-1).
1-95 2-27-  Rezoning Clearwater Creek from Rural (R) to Single-Family Residential (R-
     1995   1).
7-95 5-8-   Rezoning Air Park Lots from Rural (R) to Single-Family Residential (R-1).
     1995
8-95 5-8-   Rezoning Behm's Air Park Lots to Single-Family Residential (R-1) with a
     1995   Planned Development Overlay (PDO).
11-  7-24-  Rezoning Willow Ponds from High Density Residential (R-4) and Planned
95   1995   Development Overlay (PDO) to Single-Family Residential (R-1).
02-  4-22-  Rezoning Centennial Schools land from Single-Family Residential (R-1) and
96   1996   Light Industrial (LI) to Public, Semi-Public (PSP).
01-  2-10-  Rezoning five lots on Lilac Street from Rural (R) to Single-Family
97   1997   Residential (R-1).
15-  6-9-   Rezoning Gethsemane United Methodist Church from Medium Density Residential
97   1997   (R-3) to Single-Family Residential (R-1).
02-  6-23-  Rezoning Miller's South Glenn from Rural (R) to Single-Family Executive (R-
97   1997   1X).
20-  8-25-  Rezoning real estate at 250 Linda Avenue from Rural (R) to Single-Family
97   1997   Residential (R-1).
22-  9-8-   Rezoning south side of Aqua Lane from General Business (GB) to Single-
97   1997   Family Executive (R-1X) with a Planned Development Overlay (PDO).
32-  11-10- Rezoning Highland Meadows to Planned Development Overlay (PDO) with a
97   1997   portion of the overlay from Single-Family Residential (R-1) to Medium
            Density Residential (R-3).
08-  4-26-  Rezoning Clearwater Creek Third Addition from General Business (GB), Rural
99   1999   (R), and Rural Executive (R-X) to Planned Development Overlay (PDO).
09-  4-26-  Rezoning 524 Apollo Drive from General Business (GB) to Light Industrial
99   1999   (LI).
12-  5-10-  Rezoning certain real estate from Shopping Center (SC) to Planned
99   1999   Development Overlay (PDO).
14-  6-14-  Rezoning Peregrine Pass from Rural (R) to Planned Development Overlay
99   1999   (PDO).
20-  8-23-  Rezoning Carole's Estates Second Addition from Neighborhood Business (NB)
99   1999   to General Business (GB).
03-  2-14-  Amending Highland Meadows Planned Development Overlay and rezoning
00   2000   additional real estate from Single-Family Residential (R-1) to Medium
            Density Residential (R-3).
03-  2-26-  Rezoning City Hall Park from Rural (R) to Public Semi-Public (PSP).
01   2001
01-  6-11-  Rezoning Lot 13, Block 2, Sunset Oaks from Rural (R) to Single-Family
01   2001   Residential (R-1) for Behm's Farm Park Addition.
02-  6-11-  Amending the Comprehensive Plan; allocating 2.55 acres MUSA Reserve for
01   2001   Behm's Farm Park Addition.
11-  6-25-  Rezoning Lot 9 Auditor's Subdivision from Neighborhood Business District
01   2001   (NB) to General Business (GB).
12-  8-27-  Amending the Comprehensive Plan by allocating 11 acres of MUSA Reserve to
01   2001   the West Shadow Ponds Development.
13-  8-27-  Rezoning West Shadow Ponds from Rural (R) to Single-Family Executive (R-
01   2001   1X).
14-  7-23-  Rezoning Centennial School District real estate from Light Industrial (LI)
01   2001   to Public Semi-Public (PSP).
16-  8-27-  Rezoning Marketplace real estate from Shopping Center (SC) to Planned
01   2001   Development Overlay (PDO).
23-  1-14-  Moratorium on new residential development.
01   2002
07-  9-9-   Rezoning Stoneybrook real estate from Rural (R) to Single-Family Executive
02   2002   (R-1X).
08-  12-9-  Rezoning Spirit Hills Commercial from Single-Family Residential (R-1) to
02   2002   General Business (GB).
05-  3-10-  Rezoning Keefe Estates from Rural Executive (R-X) to Rural Executive (R-X)
03   2003   with a Planned Development Overlay (PDO).
12-  4-28-  Rezoning Century Farm North Development from Rural (R) to Urban Residential
03   2003   Planned Unit Development (PUD).
17-  8-25-  Rezoning Ravens Hollow from Rural (R) to Urban Residential Planned Unit
03   2003   Development (PUD).
16-  9-8-   Rezoning Haley Manor plat from Rural (R) to Single-Family Residential (R-
03   2003   1).
18-  9-8-   Rezoning Crystal Cove Development from Single-Family Residential (R-1) to
03   2003   Two-Family Residential (R-2).
19-  10-13- Rezoning Miller's Crossroads Development from Medium Density Residential
03   2003   (R-3) to Limited Business (LB).
20-  10-13- Rezoning Miller's Crossroads Development from Single-Family Residential (R-
03   2003   1) and Medium Density Residential (R-3) to Urban Residential Planned Unit
            Development (PUD).
02-  2-9-   Rezoning NE corner of Lake Drive and Aqua Lane from High Density
04   2004   Residential (R-4) to Medium Density Residential (R-3).
04-  3-22-  Rezoning Legacy at Woods Edge from Limited Business (LB) to Planned Unit
04   2004   Development (PUD).
10-  7-26-  Rezoning Highland Meadows East Second Addition from Single-Family
04   2004   Residential (R-1) to Medium Density Residential (R-3).
12-  9-13-  Rezoning Rich Creek Covenant Church from Single-Family Executive
04   2004   Residential (R-1X) to Mixed Use Planned Unit Development (PUD).
18-  7-26-  Rezoning Junes Addition from Rural (R) to Residential Executive (R-1X).
04   2004
22-  10-12- Rezoning Pheasant Hills Preserve Twelfth Addition from Rural Executive (R-
04   2004   X) and Single-Family Residential (R-1) to Residential Planned Unit
            Development (PUD).
19-  10-25- Rezoning West Shadow Ponds Second Addition from Rural (R) to Residential
04   2004   Executive (R-1X).
26-  1-24-  Rezoning Fox Den Acres from Single-Family Residential (R-1) to Residential
04   2005   Planned Unit Development (PUD).
01-  5-23-  Rezoning Apollo Landing from Rural (R) to General Business (GB).
05   2005
03-  7-11-  Amending the Planned Development Overlay for the Marketplace as created by
05   2005   Ordinance 16-01.
09-  10-24- Amending Legacy at Woods Edge to include a hotel as permissible use in
05   2005   commercial district.
06-  10-25- Rezoning Cavegn Estates from Rural (R) to Single-Family Residential (R-1).
05   2005
13-  12-12- Rezoning Pine Glen from Rural (R), Rural Executive (R-X) and General
05   2005   Business (GB) to Single-Family Executive (R-1X) and General Business (GB).
02-  3-13-  Lino Lakes Town Center signage criteria.
06   2006
08-  9-11-  Approving rezoning from R-1 Single-Family Residential and Rural to
06   2006   Residential Planned Unit Development (PUD) for The Preserve.
10-  10-9-  Rezoning property at the southeast corner of Birch Street and Hodgson Road
06   2006   from LB Limited Business to NB Neighborhood Business.
11-  11-27- Rezoning property at Lot 4 Block 1 Mar Don Acres, 547 Lois Lane from R
06   2006   Rural to R-1 Single-Family Residential.
05-  5-14-  Rezoning property at Lot 15, Block 3, Mar Don Acres, 554 Lois Lane from R
07   2007   Rural to R-1 Single-Family Residential.
02-  2-25-  Rezoning of Vaughan's First Addition from Planned Unit Development (PUD) to
08   2008   Single- Family Executive (R-1X).
14-  12-8-  Amending Ordinance 04-04; rezoning Legacy at Woods Edge to Planned Unit
08   2008   Development (PUD).
11-  11-23- Amending the Planned Unit Development for The Legacy at Woods Edge (Lino
09   2009   Lakes Town Center).
     2-13-  Amending Ordinance 04-04; allowing certain office uses (professional
2-12 2012   services; finance, insurance and real estates services) in the civic
            district for Legacy at Woods Edge.
01-  2-24-  Rezoning property in the Southwest Quarter of Section 28, Township 31,
14   2014   Range 22, from Rural (R) and Single Family Residential (R-1) to Planned
            Unit Development (PUD).
02-  3-24-  Rezoning multiple properties from Rural (R) to Planned Unit Development
14   2014   (PUD).
05-  5-12-  Rezoning the east 290.00 feet of Lots 3 and 4, Block 2 Arthur E. Thom
14   2014   Acres, from Rural (R) to Single Family Residential (R-1) for Talan Ridge.
06-  8-11-  Rezoning property for Century Farm North from Rural (R) to Planned Unit
14   2014   Development (PUD).
07-  7-28-  Rezoning Lot 3, Block 1, Mar Don Acres from Rural (R) to Single Family
14   2014   Residential (R-1).
11-  11-24- Rezoning White Pine Senior Living property from General Business(GB) to
14   2014   High Density Residential (R-4).
07-  8-24-  Rezoning certain property along Lake Drive from Single Family Residential
15   2015   (R-1) and Single Family Executive Residential (R-1X) to Rural (R).
04-  6-27-  Rezoning property from Rural (R) and Rural-Business Reserve (R-BR) and to
16   2016   Planned Unit Development (PUD) for Watermark.
07-  8-8-   Rezoning property from Light Industrial (LI) to Planned Unit Development
16   2016   (PUD) for Lot 1, Block 1, Clearwater Creek Business Park.
01-  2-27-  Rezoning property from Rural (R) to Single Family Executive (R-1X) for
17   2017   Erickson Estates.
07-  8-28-  Rezoning property from Rural Executive (R-X) to General Business (GB) for
17   2017   All Seasons Rental.
05-  6-25-  Rezoning property from Single Family Residential (R-1) to Planned Unit
18   2018   Development (PUD) for Nature’s Refuge.
06-  6-25-  Rezoning property from Single Family Residential (R-1) to Planned Unit
18   2018   Development (PUD) for Saddle Club Fourth Addition.
19-  12-10- Rezoning property described as along West Shadow Lake Drive from Rural (R)
18   2018   to Single Family Executive Residential (R-1X) and Public and Semi-Public
            (PSP)
07-  4-22-  Rezoning property from General Business (GB) to Planned Unit Development
19   2019   (PUD) for Lyngblomsten development.
09-  10-28- Rezoning property described as 502 and 510 Lilac Street from General
19   2019   Business (GB) to Light Industrial (LI) for Direct Bore, Inc.
02-  5-26-  Rezoning property described as the proposed Nadeau Acres development from
20   2020   Rural (R) to Single Family Residential (R-1).
03-  4-13-  Amending Marketplace Planned Development Overlay (PDO) design guidelines as
20   2020   it relates to the retail building at 617 Apollo Drive.
03-  6-14-  Rezoning property described as the proposed the Butler Addition
21   2021   development, on Lot 14, Block 3, Mar Don Acres from Rural (R) to Single
            Family Residential (R-1).
04-  10-24- Marketplace PDO Amendment #3 for site and building plans for 601 Apollo
22   2022   Drive Retail.
02-  2-12-  Rezoning property described as 6590 12th Avenue from Single Family
24   2024   Executive (R-1X) to Public and Semi-Public (PSP).
17-  11-25- Rezoning property described as Lots 3 - 6, Auditor’s Subdivision No. 134,
24   2024   Anoka County, Minnesota, from Neighborhood Business (NB) to General
            Business (GB).
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to Minnesota Regulations
References to Prior Code of Ordinances
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section             Code Section
9.44 to 9.51             1102.03
Ch. 12, § 12.25         209.01,
                         209.04
Ch. 13                   207.05,
                         210.07
Ch. 13D                  210.07
                         1007.015,
                         1007.016,
15.99                    1007.018,
                         1007.019,
                         1007.020
Chapter 18.76 to 18.88   904.01
Ch. 80A                  612.02
84.64 through 84.65      1001.099,
                         1007.074
84.86                    806.02
86B.005                  808.02
86B.201                  808.01
86B205                   808.01
88.16 through 88.22      505.04
93.44 to 93.51           1007.001,
                         1102.10
97B.001                  1010.007
Ch. 103B                 1011.004,
                         1011.006
Ch. 103D                 1011.006
Ch. 103E                 1011.006
Ch. 103F                 1011.004,
                         1103.01
103F.201 to 103F.221     1102.01
103F.211                 1102.08
103G.005, Subd. 14       1103.04
103G.005, Subd. 15       1102.03
103G.005, Subd. 17       1011.006
103G.005, Subd. 19       1011.006
                         1102.09,
103G.245                 1103.05,
                         1103.11
103G.298                 401.37
115.55                   403.01
115A.941                 507.04,
                         507.05
144.391                  602.01
144.411 et seq.          616.08
144.50 through 144.69    616.02
144G                     1007.001
145A.05                  403.01
145A.05, Subd. 7a        501.02
Ch. 146A                 616.07
146A.08                  616.06
                         617.03,
151.72                   617.05,
                         617.11
Ch. 152                  617.05
152.01, Subd. 4          1009.49
157.16                   701.02
157.16, Subd. 3d         701.02
161.45                   304.19
Ch. 168B                 213.02
169.01                   806.01
169-041                  802.06
169.13                   805.04
169.69                   805.06
169.346                  1007.052
169.693                  805.06
176.011, Subd. 9         203.02
211B.045                 1010.007
Ch. 216D                 304.11
216B.02                  304.02
216B.02, Subd. 4         304.02
216B.02, Subd. 6         304.02
216B.36                  304.19
216C.06, Subd. 14        1007.018
216D.04, Subd. 3         304.02
222.37                   304.19
                         304.02,
237.162                  304.10,
                         304.19
237.162, Subd. 3         304.03
237.162, Subd.4          304.02
                         304.02,
237.163                  304.10,
                         304.19
237.163, Subd.2(b)       303.01
Ch. 238                  304.02
238.084                  304.19
243.166                  616.06
245A.02                  1007.001
Ch. 260B                 501.07
273.12                   1007.001
273.13                   1007.044
273.23                   1007.001,
                         1007.044
278.01 through 278.03    612.19
299F.011                 1002.01
300.06                   304.04
301B.01                  304.19
303.06                   612.08
307.08                   1102.03
Ch. 308A                 304.02
325E.05                  612.02
325E.06                  612.02
325E.21                  612.02
325F.25 through 325F.34  612.02
325F.733                 612.02
325F.734 to 325F.742     612.02
325J.04, Subd. 2         612.12
326.59 to 326.75         1003.01,
                         1003.05
326.62, Subd. 1          1003.03
326.62, Subd. 2          1003.02
326.65, Subd. 1          1003.02
326.69                   1003.04
326.70                   1003.03
326.83 to 326.991        605.02
326.242                  401.37
Ch. 327                  1007.001
                         1007.100,
                         1007.101,
327.30                   1007.110—
                         1007.115,
                         1007.131,
                         1007.132
327.31 to 327.34         1007.116
Ch. 329                  613.04
333.01                   612.08
Ch. 340                  701.01,
                         1007.001
Ch. 340A                 701.01
340A.24                  1007.001
340A.26                  1007.001
340A.285                 1007.001
340A.301                 701.02,
                         1007.001
340A.301, Subd. 6(i)     701.02
340A.301, Subd. 6(j)     701.02
340A.301, Subd. 10       1007.140,
                         1007.141
340A.404, Subd. 5        701.02
340A.408, Subd. 5        701.04
340A.409                 701.03
340A.414                 701.09
340A.503, Subd. 6        501.05
340A.509                 701.01
342.01                   301.01,
                         502.01
343.21                   503.01
344.02, Subd. 1(a) - (d) 1103.03
347.51                   503.19
Ch. 349                  611.01
349.11 through 349.23    611.07
349.12                   611.04
349.213                  611.02
Ch. 364                  701.10
364.03, Subd. 2          612.08,
                         616.05
364.03, Subd. 3          612.08,
                         616.05
364.06                   207.05,
                         601.05
364.09                   207.05,
                         601.05
394.34                   305.05
412.301                  Charter
                         7.10
412.925(a)(1)-(5)        904.08
415.11                   203.01
Ch. 429                  304.17
429.041 through 429.091  303.08
429.041, Subd. 7         303.08
429.051                  303.09
429.061                  405.10
429.081                  1011.015
                         405.10,
429.101                  903.04,
                         904.07
444.075                  404.02
Ch. 453                  304.02
Ch. 453A                 304.02
459.20                   808.01
                         304.17,
                         1011.004,
Ch. 462                  1102.01,
                         1102.04,
                         1103.01
462.351 through 462.363  1007.000
462.353, Subd. 4         214.05
462.354                  212.01
462.355                  305.05
462.357, Subd. 3         1007.015,
                         1007.016
462.357, Subd. 6         1007.018
Ch. 462.358              1001.004
462.3593, Subd. 9        1007.065
466.05                   207.06
469.190                  607.03,
                         607.17
471.709                  616.03
471.895                  210.07
504B.211                 1009.06
505                      1001.007
505.03                   1001.056
515.01 through 515.29    1001.007,
                         1007.001
515B                     1007.001
518B.01, Subd. 2(a)      1009.47
518B.01, Subd. 2(b)      1009.47
609.66, Subd. la         1009.49
609.67                   1009.49
609.71                   1009.49
609.72                   1009.49
609.321                  614.05
609.321 through 609.324  616.06
609.321, Subd. 9         1009.49
609.322                  614.05
609.323                  614.05
609.324                  614.05
609.341, Subd. 11(b)     614.10
609.342                  614.05
609.342 through 609.345  616.06
609.343                  614.05
609.344                  614.05
609.345                  614.05
609.365                  614.05,
                         616.06
609.487                  1009.49
609.506                  1009.49
609.705                  1009.49
609.713                  1009.49
609.715                  1009.49
617.23                   614.05,
                         616.06
                         614.02,
                         614.05,
617.241                  616.06,
                         1007.001,
                         1007.061
617.246                  614.05,
                         616.06
617.247                  614.05,
                         616.06
617.293                  614.05,
                         616.06
617.294                  614.05,
                         616.06
624.20                   1002.10
624.20 through 624.25    1002.13
Ch. 624.20, Subd. (a)    1002.12
Ch. 624.20, Subd. (b)    1002.12
Ch. 624.20, Subd. (c)    1002.12
624.713                  1009.49
Ch. 645                  101.12
                         
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rules Code Section
Minn. Rules                 Code Section
4410                        1007.025
6110.3000                   808.01
Ch. 7030                    901.03
7030.1000 through 7030.1050 805.06
Ch. 7050                    1011.004
7077.0105, Subd. 41(b)      405.02,
                            1011.006
                            401.02,
                            403.03,
Ch. 7080                    1001.142,
                            1007.001,
                            1007.042
7080.1500, Subd 4D          403.03
Ch. 7081                    403.03
Ch. 7082                    403.01
7083.0700                   403.02
Ch. 7090                    1011.004
Chapter 7511                1002.01
Chapter 7560                304.11
7560.0150 Subp. 2           304.17
7819.110                    304.02
7819.1000                   304.06
7819.1000, Subd. 3          304.03
7819.1100                   304.07,
                            304.10
7819.1250                   304.22
7819.1300                   304.12
7819.3000                   304.07
7819.3100                   304.18
7819.3100 Subd. 2           304.21
7819.3200                   304.21
7819.4000                   304.17
7819.4100                   304.17
7819.5000                   304.18
7819.5100                   304.18
Ch. 8410                    1011.004
                            
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA REGULATIONS
Minn. Regulations Code Section
Minn. Regulations        Code Section
NR 86-87                 1103.11
Chapter 1340             1102.07
Part 6120.3200, Subp. 3. 1102.05
Part 6120.3300           1102.05
APC 7009                 1007.047
MPC 7030                 1007.047
                         
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE OF ORDINANCES
Prior Code Section 2009 Section
Prior Code Section 2009 Section
201.01             201.01
201.02             201.02
202.01             202.01
202.02             202.02
202.03             202.03
202.04             202.04
202.05             202.05
202.06             202.06
202.07             202.07
202.08             202.08
202.09             202.09
202.10             202.10
202.11             202.11
202.12             202.12
202.13             202.13
202.14             202.14
202.15             202.15
202.16             202.16
202.17             202.17
202.18             202.18
202.19             202.19
202.20             202.20
202.21             202.21
202.22             202.22
202.23             202.23
202.24             202.24
203.01             203.01
203.02             203.02
204A.01            204A.01
204A.02            204A.02
204A.03            204A.03
204A.04            204A.04
204A.05            204A.05
204A.06            204A.06
205.01             205.01
205.02             205.02
205.03             205.03
205.04             205.04
206.01             206.01
206.02             206.02
206.03             206.03
208.01             208.01
208.02             208.02
208.03             208.03
208.04             208.04
208.05             208.05
208.06             208.06
208.07             208.07
208.09             208.08
210.01             210.01
210.02             210.02
210.03             210.03
210.04             210.04
210.05             210.05
210.06             210.06
211.01             211.01
211.02             211.02
211.03             211.03
211.04             211.04
212.01             212.01
212.02             212.02
212.03             212.03
212.04             212.04
212.05             212.05
212.06             212.06
213.01             213.01
213.02             213.02
213.03             213.03
213.04             213.04
213.05             213.05
213.06             213.06
213.07             213.07
214.01             214.01
214.02             214.02
214.03             214.03
214.04             214.04
214.05             214.05
214.06             214.06
217.01             217.01
217.02             217.02
217.03             217.03
217.04             217.04
301.01             301.01
301.02             301.02
301.03             301.03
301.04             301.04
301.05             301.05
301.06             301.07
301.07             301.08
301.08             301.09
301.09             301.10
301.10             301.11
301.11             301.12
301.12             301.13
301.13             301.14
301.14             301.15
301.15             301.16
301.16             301.17
301.17             301.18
301.18             301.19
301.20             301.20
301.21             301.21
301.22             301.22
302.01             302.01
302.02             302.02
302.03             302.03
302.04             302.03
302.05             302.06
302.06             302.05
302.07             302.05
302.08             302.06
302.09             302.04
302.11             302.03
302.14             302.07
303.01             303.01
303.02             303.02
303.03             303.03
303.04             303.04
303.05             303.05
303.06             303.06
303.07             303.07
303.08             303.08
303.09             303.09
303.10             303.11
401.01             401.01
401.01a            401.02
401.02             401.03
401.03             401.04
401.04             401.05
401.05             401.06
401.06             401.07
401.07             401.08
401.08             401.09
401.09             401.10
401.10             401.11
401.11             401.12
401.12             401.13
401.13             401.14
401.14             401.15
401.15             401.16
401.16             401.17
401.17             401.18
401.18             401.19
401.19             401.20
401.20             401.21
401.21             401.22
401.22             401.23
401.23             401.24
401.24             401.25
401.25             401.26
401.26             401.27
401.27             401.28
401.28             401.29
401.29             401.30
401.30             401.31
401.31             401.32
401.32             401.33
401.33             401.34
401.34             401.35
401.35             401.36
402.02             402.01,
                   402.02
402.03             402.03
402.04             402.04
402.05             402.05
402.06             402.06
402.07             402.07
402.08             402.08
402.09             402.09
402.10             402.10
402.11             402.11
402.12             402.12
402.13             402.13
402.14             402.14
501.01             501.01
501.02             501.02
501.03             501.03
501.04             501.04
501.05             501.05
501.06             501.06
501.07             501.07
501.08             501.08
501.09             501.09
504.01             504.01
504.02             504.02
504.03             504.03
504.04             504.04
505.01             505.01
505.02             505.02
505.03             505.03
505.04             505.04
505.05             505.05
505.06             505.06
505.07             505.07
507.01             507.01
507.02             507.02
507.03             507.03
507.04             507.04
507.05             507.05
507.06             507.06
507.07             507.07
507.08             507.08
508.01             508.01
508.02             508.02
508.03             508.03
508.04             508.04
508.05             508.05
508.06             508.06
508.07             508.07
508.08             508.08
601.01             601.01
601.02             601.02
601.03             601.03
601.04             601.04
601.06             601.06
601.07             601.07
601.08             601.08
601.09             601.09
603.01             603.01
603.02             603.02
603.03             603.03
603.04             603.04
603.05             603.05
603.06             603.06
603.07             603.07
603.08             603.08
603.09             603.09
603.10             603.10
604.01             604.01
604.02             604.02
604.03             604.03
604.04             604.04
605.01             605.01
605.02             605.02
605.03             605.03
605.04             605.04
605.05             605.05
605.06             605.06
605.07             605.07
605.08             605.08
605.09             605.09
606.01             606.01
606.02             606.02
606.03             606.03
606.04             606.04
606.05             606.05
606.06             606.06
606.07             606.07
606.08             606.08
606.09             606.09
608.01             608.01
608.02             608.02
608.03             608.03
608.04             608.04
610.01             610.01
610.02             610.02
610.03             610.03
610.04             610.04
611.04             612.04
611.05             612.05
612.01             612.01,
                   613.01
612.02             612.02,
                   613.02
612.03             612.03
612.04             613.03
612.06             612.06,
                   613.04
612.07             612.07
612.08             612.08
612.09             612.09
612.10             612.10
612.11             612.11
612.12             612.12
612.13             612.13
612.14             612.14
612.15             612.15
612.16             612.16
612.17             612.17
612.18             612.18
612.19             612.19
612.20             612.20
612.21             612.21
613.01             614.01
613.02             614.02
613.03             614.03
613.04             614.04
613.05             614.05
613.06             614.06
613.07             614.07
613.08             614.08
613.09             614.09
613.10             614.10
613.11             614.11
613.12             614.12
613.13             614.13
613.14             614.14
613.15             614.15
613.16             614.16
613.17             614.17
613.18             614.18
613.19             614.19
701.01             701.01
701.02             701.02
701.03             701.03,
                   701.04
701.05             701.05
701.06             701.06
701.07             701.07
701.08             701.08
701.09             701.09
701.10             701.10
703.01             703.01
703.02             703.02
703.03             703.03
801.01             801.01
801.02             801.02
801.03             801.03
802.01             802.01
802.02             802.02
802.03             802.03
802.04             802.04
802.05             802.05
803.01             803.01
804.01             804.01
804.02             804.02
805.01             805.01
805.02             805.02
805.03             805.03
805.05             805.05
806.01             806.01
806.02             806.02
807.01             807.01
807.02             807.03
807.03             807.04
807.04             806.06
901.01             901.01
901.02             901.02
901.03             901.03
901.04             901.04
902.01             902.01
902.02             902.02
902.03             902.03
902.04             902.04
902.05             902.05
902.06             902.06
902.07             902.07
903.01             903.01
903.02             903.02
903.03             903.03
903.04             903.04
903.06             903.05
903.07             903.06
904.01             904.01
904.02             904.02
904.03             904.03,
                   904.04
904.05             904.08
904.06             904.09
1004.01            1004.01
1004.02            1004.02
1004.03            1004.03
1004.04            1004.04
1004.05            1004.05
1004.06            1004.06
1004.07            1004.07
1004.08            1004.08
1004.09            1004.09
1004.10            1004.10
1004.11            1004.11
1004.12            1004.12
1006.01            1006.01
1006.02            1006.02
1006.03            1006.03
1007.01            1008.01
1007.02            1008.02
1007.03            1008.03
1007.04            1008.04
1007.05            1008.05
1007.06            1008.06
1007.07            1008.07
1007.08            1008.08
1007.09            1008.09
1007.10            1008.10
1007.11            1008.11
1007.12            1008.12
1007.13            1008.13
1007.14            1008.14
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
98-47    4-13-1998   211.05
17-99    2-14-2000   TSO Table IV
06-13    2-13-2006   203.01
12-111   11-13-2012  TSO Table I
15-01    1-12-2015   TSO Table II
15-33    4-13-2015   TSO Table IV
15-37    4-13-2015   TSO Table IV
15-41    4-13-2015   TSO Table IV
15-45    4-27-2015   TSO Table IV
15-54    5-11-2015   TSO Table I
15-73    7-13-2015   TSO Table IV
16-15    3-14-2016   TSO Table IV
16-28    4-25-2016   TSO Table IV
16-34    5-9-2016    TSO Table IV
16-41    5-23-2016   TSO Table IV
16-55    6-13-2016   TSO Table IV
17-101   9-25-2017   TSO Table IV
18-29    3-26-2018   TSO Table IV
18-88    7-23-2018   TSO Table IV
18-159   11-13-2018  TSO Table IV
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
3-83     7-11-1983   701.02
10-83    10-11-1983  701.09
13-83    12-27-1983  701.09
                     504.01,
2-84     7-23-1984   504.02,
                     504.03
3-84     7-9-1984    901.03
12-84    11-26-1984  402.14
18-87    8-24-1987   902.07
01-89    2-13-1989   613.01 
                     613.04
11-89    12-11-1989  701.09
03-90    5-29-1990   302.01 through
                     302.07
06-90    5-29-1990   202.01
15-90    3-25-1991   1008.01 
                     1008.14
08-91    5-28-1991   701.03
07-91    6-10-1991   703.02,
                     703.03
                     904.01 
93-09    9-13-1993   904.04,
                     904.08,
                     904.09
93-16    10-11-1993  614.01 
                     614.19
                     Charter
93-19    11-23-1993  8.02,
                     8.07
05-94    4-11-1994   507.05
10-94    4-11-1994   401.20,
                     402.04
09-94    6-13-1994   402.14
11-94    7-25-1994   TSO Table I
14-94    8-22-1994   TSO Table V
13-94    9-12-1994   208.10
15-94    9-26-1994   TSO Table V
17-94    11-28-1994  807.01 
                     807.09
18-94    1-9-1995    206.01
1-95     2-27-1995   TSO Table V
04-95    4-10-1995   1102.01 
                     1102.13
06-95    4-24-1995   TSO Table I
03-98    4-27-1995   211.04
7-95     5-8-1995    TSO Table V
8-95     5-8-1995    TSO Table V
10-95    6-12-1995   TSO Table I
11-95    7-24-1995   TSO Table V
09-95    8-28-1995   504.01,
                     504.02
14-95    9-11-1995   204A.01 
                     204A.06
16-95    9-25-1995   TSO Table I
-        10- -1995   204A.06
17-95    11-13-1995  507.05
20-95    11-13-1995  212.06
21-95    11-27-1995  TSO Table I
23-95    12-11-1995  501.01 
                     501.09
01-96    2-26-1996   TSO Table I
02-96    4-22-1996   TSO Table V
06-96    6-10-1996   TSO Table I
01-97    2-10-1997   TSO Table V
04-97    3-10-1997   TSO Table I
06-97    3-24-1997   TSO Table I
03-97    4-28-1997   TSO Table I
07-97    4-28-1997   203.01
15-97    6-9-1997    TSO Table V
02-97    6-23-1997   TSO Table V
13-97    6-23-1997   401.02
14-97    6-23-1997   402.01,
                     402.02
20-97    8-25-1997   TSO Table V
22-97    9-8-1997    TSO Table V
23-97    9-8-1997    TSO Table I
24-97    9-8-1997    TSO Table I
26-97    9-8-1997    401.19
27-97    10-13-1997  403.04
32-97    11-10-1997  TSO Table V
36-97    12-8-1997   507.04
                     207.01,
35-97    2-9-1998    207.04 
                     207.06
03-98    4-27-1998   211.01 
                     211.03
04-98    4-27-1998   217.01 
                     217.04
10-98    8-24-1998   TSO Table II
16-98    1-11-1999   TSO Table I
03-99    3-22-1999   TSO Table II
06-99    3-22-1999   TSO Table IV
04-99    4-12-1999   TSO Table I
05-99    4-12-1999   TSO Table IV
07-99    4-26-1999   602.01 
                     602.13
08-99    4-26-1999   TSO Table V
09-99    4-26-1999   TSO Table V
12-99    5-10-1999   TSO Table V
                     701.02,
13-99    6-14-1999   701.03,
                     701.05 
                     701.07, 702.06, 702.08
14-99    6-14-1999   TSO Table V
15-99    6-28-1999   TSO Table IV
16-99    7-12-1999   TSO Table I
19-99    7-26-1999   TSO Table I
20-99    8-23-1999   TSO Table V
18-99    10-11-1999  TSO Table III
22-99    1-10-2000   TSO Table III
03-00    2-14-2000   TSO Table V
04-00    3-27-2000   TSO Table I
05-00    4-10-2000   207.05
07-00    5-8-2000    TSO Table III
08-00    5-22-2000   TSO Table III
06-00    5-28-2000   TSO Table I
11-00    8-14-2000   505.01 
                     505.07
                     1002.01,
12-00    8-14-2000   1002.02,
                     1002.05,
                     1002.06
16-00    10-9-2000   TSO Table IV
14-00    10-23-2000  TSO Table II
13-00    10-24-2000  TSO Table III
17-00    1-8-2001    TSO Table III
03-01    2-26-2001   TSO Table V
06-01    5-29-2001   1001.115
07-01    5-29-2001   TSO Table IV
01-01    6-11-2001   TSO Table V
02-01    6-11-2001   TSO Table V
11-01    6-25-2001   TSO Table V
14-01    7-23-2001   TSO Table V
12-01    8-27-2001   TSO Table V
13-01    8-27-2001   TSO Table V
16-01    8-27-2001   TSO Table V
17-01    9-24-2001   203.01
19-01    10-8-2001   207.05
20-01    10-8-2001   612.08
18-01    10-22-2001  TSO Table I
22-01    12-11-2001  TSO Table I
23-01    1-14-2002   TSO Table V
01-02    1-28-2002   TSO Table IV
03-02    3-25-2002   808.01 
                     808.07
02-02    4-8-2002    TSO Table III
06-02    5-28-2002   1002.10 
                     1002.21
05-02    6-24-2002   TSO Table III
04-02    7-8-2002    TSO Table IV
07-02    9-9-2002    TSO Table V
09-02    10-14-2002  TSO Table IV
11-02    10-28-2002  TSO Table II
12-02    10-28-2002  TSO Table IV
                     701.01,
13-02    10-28-2002  701.04,
                     701.09,
                     701.10
08-02    12-9-2002   TSO Table V
08-03    - -2003     Ch. 1007, App. A
21-03    - -2003     Ch. 1007, App. A
01-03    1-27-2003   Ch. 1007, App. A
02-03    1-27-2003   TSO Table IV
03-03    2-10-2003   TSO Table IV
                     1001.001 
                     1001.014,
                     1001.025 
                     1001.028,
                     1001.040 
                     1001.042,
                     1001.055 
                     1001.060,
04-03    2-24-2003   1001.075 
                     1001.081,
                     1001.095 
                     1001.103,
                     1001.115,
                     1001.125 
                     1001.127,
                     1001.140 
                     1001.152
05-03    3-10-2003   TSO Table V
06-03    3-10-2003   TSO Table IV
09-03    4-28-2003   TSO Table IV
11-03    4-28-2003   901.03
12-03    4-28-2003   TSO Table V
14-03    5-27-2003   TSO Table III
15-03    6-9-2003    TSO Table III
17-03    8-25-2003   TSO Table V
16-03    9-8-2003    TSO Table V
18-03    9-8-2003    TSO Table V
19-03    10-13-2003  TSO Table V
20-03    10-13-2003  TSO Table V
22-03    11-24-2003  TSO Table IV
01-04    1-26-2004   TSO Table IV
02-04    2-9-2004    TSO Table V
08-04    3-14-2004   TSO Table IV
04-04    3-22-2004   TSO Table V
05-04    3-22-2004   701.02
06-04    4-12-2004   TSO Table IV
15-04    5-24-2004   TSO Table I
16-04    5-24-2004   808.01 
                     808.08
07-04    6-14-2004   TSO Table IV
14-04    6-14-2004   401.03
09-04    6-28-2004   TSO Table IV
10-04    7-26-2004   TSO Table V
18-04    7-26-2004   TSO Table V
20-04    7-26-2004   TSO Table I
12-04    9-13-2004   TSO Table V
21-04    9-13-2004   TSO Table I
11-04    9-27-2004   802.06
22-04    10-12-2004  TSO Table V
19-04    10-25-2004  TSO Table V
23-04    11-8-2004   TSO Table IV
24-04    12-13-2004  Ch. 1007, App. A
11-05    - -2005     TSO Table I
26-04    1-24-2005   TSO Table V
01-05    5-23-2005   TSO Table V
02-05    6-13-2005   701.09
03-05    7-11-2005   TSO Table V
08-05    9-26-2005   TSO Table III
09-05    10-24-2005  TSO Table V
10-05    10-24-2005  203.01
06-05    10-25-2005  TSO Table V
13-05    12-12-2005  TSO Table V
14-05    1-9-2006    TSO Table IV
01-06    2-27-2006   TSO Table IV
02-06    3-13-2006   TSO Table V
06-06    6-12-2006   TSO Table III
08-06    9-11-2006   TSO Table V
09-06    10-9-2006   Ch. 1007, App. A
10-06    10-9-2006   TSO Table V
11-06    11-27-2006  TSO Table V
12-06    11-27-2006  TSO Table I
03-07    4-23-2007   615.01 
                     615.10
04-07    5-14-2007   TSO Table III
05-07    5-14-2007   TSO Table V
                     1003.01,
09-07    8-27-2007   1003.02,
                     1003.04 
                     1003.07
10-07    8-27-2007   1002.01 
                     1002.06
11-07    9-24-2007   209.01 
                     209.08
12-07    9-24-2007   509.01,
                     509.02
02-07    10-22-2007  807.01 
                     807.09
13-07    10-22-2007  TSO Table III
19-07    12-10-2007  Ch. 1007, App. A
01-08    1-28-2008   Ch. 1007, App. A
18-07    1-28-2008   TSO Table III
17-07    2-11-2008   TSO Table III
02-08    2-25-2008   TSO Table V
07-08    4-14-2008   401.37
                     503.01 
03-08    5-27-2008   503.16,
                     503.20 
                     503.24
09-08    6-23-2008   304.01 
                     304.26
11-08    8-11-2008   Ch. 1007, App. A
12-08    9-8-2008    601.05
14-08    12-8-2008   TSO Table V
17-08    1-12-2009   503.01,
                     503.09
15-08    12-9-2008   207.05
01-09    2-9-2009    Ch. 1007, App. A
                     1001.004,
                     1001.007,
                     1001.012,
                     1001.025   
                     1001.028,
                     1001.041,
                     1001.042,
                     1001.055   
                     1001.057,
                     1001.076,
02-09    2-23-2009   1001.077,
                     1001.079,
                     1001.080,
                     1001.098   
                     1001.100,
                     1001.115,
                     1001.126,
                     1001.142,
                     1001.145,
                     1001.147,
                     1001.148 
04-09    8-10-2009   701.07,
                     Ch. 1007, App. A
05-09    8-10-2009   Ch. 1007, App. A
07-09    10-12-2009  607.01 -
                     607.18
10-09    11-23-2009  Adopting Ordinance
11-09    11-23-2009  TSO Table V
13-09    11-23-2009  TSO Table I
1-10     2-22-2010   Ch. 1007, App. A
2-10     2-22-2010   Ch. 1007, App. A
03-10    3-8-2010    701.03,
                     701.08
04-10    3-8-2010    Ch. 1007, App. A
05-10    4-12-2010   Ch. 1007, App. A
06-10    5-10-2010   TSO Table III
                     902.01,
07-10    4-26-2010   902.03,
                     902.05,
                     902.06
08-10    6-28-2010   Ch. 1007, App. A
                     405.01 
10-10    9-13-2010   405.04,
                     405.06 
                     405.10
11-10    10-11-2010  Ch. 1007, App. A
13-10    1-10-2011   204A.07
01-11    1-24-2011   613.02,
                     615.02
02-11    1-24-2011   Ch. 1007, App. A
03-11    1-24-2011   Ch. 1007, App. A
04-11    1-24-2011   Ch. 1007, App. A
05-11    1-24-2011   507.04,
                     507.05
06-11    3-28-2011   TSO Table III
07-11    3-28-2011   Ch. 1007, App. A
12-11    7-11-2011   TSO Table III
13-11    6-27-2011   Ch. 1007, App. A
14-11    6-27-2011   802.07
15-11    7-25-2011   Ch. 1007, App. A
                     503.01,
19-11    10-10-2011  503.12,
                     503.15 
                     503.24
20-11    10-10-2011  213.07
21-11    11-28-2011  Ch. 1007, App. A
23-11    1-9-2012    701.02
1-12     1-23-2012   Ch. 1007, App. A
2-12     2-13-2012   TSO Table V
3-12     3-12-2012   Ch. 1007, App. A
04-12    3-12-2012   701.02
7-12     7-23-2012   Ch. 1007, App. A
8-12     7-23-2012   Ch. 1007, App. A
09-12    11-26-12    TSO Table II
6-12     2-25-2013   TSO Table II
03-13    5-13-2013   TSO Table III
04-13    1-13-2014   Charter
                     4.02
05-13    1-13-2014   Charter
                     8.04
07-13    8-26-2013   Ch. 1007, App. A
08-13    8-26-2013   403.01 
                     403.05
09-13    9-9-2013    TSO Table IV
10-13    9-9-2013    504.02
01-14    2-24-2014   TSO Table V
02-14    3-24-2014   TSO Table V
05-14    5-12-2014   TSO Table V
06-14    8-11-2014   TSO Table V
07-14    7-28-2014   TSO Table V
08-14    9-22-2014   701.02
                     1010.001--
09-14    11-10-2014  1010.006,
                     1010.008 
                     1010.010
10-14    11-24-2014  Ch. 1007, App. A
11-14    11-24-2014  TSO Table V
01-15    1-26-2015   TSO Table II
02-15    6-22-2015   701.06
03-15    7-13-2015   TSO Table IV
04-15    7-27-2015   701.09
05-15    7-25-2015   701.02
07-15    8-24-2015   TSO Table V
08-15    10-12-2015  Ch. 1007, App. A
                     1011.001  
09-15    10-26-2015  1011.008,
                     1011.010 
                     1011.016
                     1103.01 
10-15    11-23-2015  1103.13,
                     1103.99
11-15    11-9-2015   TSO Table III
13-15    12-28-2015  TSO Table II
14-15    12-28-2015  215.01,
                     215.02
01-16    6-13-2016   505.02,
                     505.05
02-16    6-13-2016   1002.02,
                     1002.03
                     601.05,
                     611.08,
                     611.09,
03-16    6-13-2016   612.03,
                     614.17,
                     615.01,
                     615.03 
                     615.10
04-16    6-27-2016   TSO Table V
05-16    7-25-2016   TSO Table III
07-16    8-8-2016    TSO Table V
08-16    9-12-2016   TSO Table III
09-16    9-12-2016   Ch. 1007, App. A
10-16    9-12-2016   TSO Table I
                     211.04,
11-16    11-28-2016  212.06,
                     217.04
01-17    2-27-2017   TSO Table V
02-17    4-10-2017   TSO Table I
                     701.02,
03-17    6-26-2017   701.08,
                     701.09
04-17    5-8-2017    TSO Table III
05-17    7-10-2017   TSO Table III
                     601.05,
06-17    12-11-2017  616.01 
                     616.09
07-17    8-28-2017   TSO Table V
08-17    9-25-2017   TSO Table IV
09-17    9-25-2017   611.11,
                     611.12
12-17    11-27-2017  TSO Table IV
01-18    1-22-2018   TSO Table IV
02-18    2-26-2018   TSO Table IV
03-18    5-29-2018   TSO Table IV
04-18    5-29-2018   301.05
05-18    6-25-2018   TSO Table V
06-18    6-25-2018   TSO Table V
07-18    6-25-2018   Ch. 1007, App. A
08-18    11-26-2018  203.01,
                     203.02
09-18    7-23-2018   Ch. 1007, App. A
10-18    7-23-2018   Ch. 1007, App. A
                     616.02,
13-18    9-24-2018   616.04 
                     616.10
14-18    9-24-2018   510.01 
                     510.05
17-18    11-26-2018  203.01
19-18    12-10-2018  TSO Table V
                     304.03,
01-19    11-25-2019  305.01 
                     305.15,
                     Ch. 1007, App. A
02-19    4-22-2019   208.01 
                     208.10
3-19     3-25-2019   205.04
4-19     3-25-2019   207.05
05-19    4-8-2019    Ch. 1007, App. A
06-19    4-8-2019    Ch. 1007, App. A
07-19    4-22-2019   TSO Table V
08-19    7-8-2019    TSO Table III
09-19    10-28-2019  TSO Table V
                     401.02,
11-19    12-23-2019  401.16,
                     402.02
01-20    2-10-2020   Ch. 1007, App. A
02-20    5-26-2020   TSO Table V
03-20    4-13-2020   TSO Table V
04-20    7-27-2020   TSO Table III
05-20    11-9-2020   TSO Table III
08-20    11-23-2020  511.01 
                     511.04
01-21    1-25-2021   TSO Table III
02-21    4-12-2021   TSO Table III
03-21    6-14-2021   TSO Table V
04-21    6-14-2021   TSO Table I
06-21    6-28-2021   203.01,
                     203.02
07-21    8-23-2021   404.01 
                     404.10
                     601.05,
03-22    10-24-2022  617.01 
                     617.15
04-22    10-24-2022  TSO Table V
                     701.02,
05-22    12-12-2022  701.10,
                     701.12,
                     701.13
06-22    12-12-2022  602.01 
                     602.13
                     1007.000,
                     1007.001,
                     1007.015 
                     1007.025,
                     1007.040 
                     1007.074,
                     1007.090,
                     1007.100, 
08-22    11-28-2022  1007.101, 
                     1007.110 
                     1007.116,
                     1007.130 
                     1007.132,
                     1007.140 
                     1007.142,
                     1007.150,
                     1007.151,
                     Ch. 1007, Appendix B
                     1011.001 
10-22    1-9-2023    1011.008,
                     1011.010 
                     1011.016
01-23    3-27-2023   1010.001 
                     1010.010
                     405.02,
02-23    6-12-2023   405.05--
                     405.10
03-23    6-26-2023   203.01,
                     203.02
05-23    8-28-2023   301.01--
                     301.22
                     502.01,
06-23    8-28-2023   502.02,
                     502.99
07-23    8-28-2023   617.05
08-23    9-11-2023   901.03
09-23    9-11-2023   TSO Table I
10-23    10-23-2023  904.08
11-23    10-9-2023   TSO Table I
                     1007.001,
                     1007.042,
                     1007.043,
                     1007.049,
                     1007.050,
13-23    9-11-2023   1007.052,
                     1007.130--
                     1007.132,
                     1007.140--
                     1007.142,
                     1007.150,
                     1007.151
14-23    11-13-2023  218.01
01-24    1-22-2024   TSO Table III
02-24    2-12-2024   TSO Table V
03-24    2-12-2024   Ch. 1007
                     1007.100,
                     1007.101,
04-24    5-28-2024   1007.110—
                     1007.115,
                     1007.131,
                     1007.132
05-24    5-28-2024   1007.043
06-24    5-28-2024   TSO Table III
08-24    5-28-2024   TSO Table III
09-24    6-10-2024   TSO Table III
10-24    7-22-2024   TSO Table III
12-24    8-26-2024   TSO Table IV
14-24    11-25-2024  TSO Table III
15-24    11-25-2024  TSO Table IV
16-24    11-12-2024  218.01
17-24    11-25-2024  TSO Table V
                    
 
INDEX
ADULT MOTELS; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR,
614.16
ADULT THEATERS AND ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATERS; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR,
614.15
ADULT USES (SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES; See also ZONING CODE)
   Additional regulations for adult motels,
614.16
   Additional regulations for adult theaters and adult motion picture theaters,
614.15
   Additional regulations for escort agencies,
614.13
   Additional regulations for nude model studios,
614.14
   Appeal,
614.11
   Classification,
614.03
   Definitions,
614.02
   Enforcement,
614.18
   Expiration of license,
614.08
   Injunction,
614.19
   Inspection,
614.07
   Issuance of licenses,
614.05
   License fees; license investigation fees,
614.06
   Licenses,
614.04
   Purpose and intent,
614.01
   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films or videos,
614.17
   Revocation,
614.10
   Suspension,
614.09
   Transfer of license,
614.12
ADVISORY COMMISSIONS
   Application of state laws,
210.07
   Compensation,
210.03
   Duties and authority,
210.05
   Establishment of commissions,
210.01
   Meetings,
210.04
   Members and terms,
210.02
   Scope,
210.06
AIR CONDITIONING
   Permits required for air conditioning,
401.18
   Use of water for air conditioning,
401.17
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; IN PUBLIC PARKS,
301.05
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND SNOWMOBILES; OPERATION OF
   Age restrictions for snowmobile operation,
807.02
   Definitions,
807.01
   Exemptions from provisions,
807.08
   Operation of all-terrain vehicles within the corporate city limits,
807.07
   Operation of snowmobiles within the corporate city limits,
807.03
   Road crossing by snowmobiles,
807.04
   Snowmobile equipment requirements,
807.06
   Snowmobiles at uncontrolled intersections,
807.05
   Violation; penalty,
807.09
AMMUNITION; SINGLE BALL,
504.03
ANIMAL BITES; RABIES,
503.14
ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
   Appeal process,
503.17
   Attack by an animal,
503.15
   Confinement in motor vehicle,
503.13
   Dangerous and potentially dangerous animals,
503.15
   Dangerous animal requirements,
503.19
   Dangerous animals,
503.16
   Definitions,
503.01
   Disposition of impounded animals,
503.08
   Enforcement,
503.02
   Exemptions,
503.24
   Farm animals,
503.21
   Forfeiture of ownership rights,
503.20
   Health and maintenance standards,
503.11
   Impounding animals,
503.04
   Impounding facility,
503.06
   Impounding strays,
503.05
   Kennel licenses: private and commercial,
503.10
   License and vaccination requirements,
503.09
   Notification of new address,
503.18
   Penalty,
503.23
   Prohibitions,
503.12
   Rabies; animal bites,
503.14
   Redeeming impounded animals,
503.07
   Right of entry,
503.03
   Wild animals,
503.22
ASH, OAK AND ELM WOOD; TRANSPORTING PROHIBITED,
902.06
ASSEMBLIES; LARGE
   Application,
606.04
   Conditions,
606.06
   Enforcement,
606.09
   Large assemblies defined,
606.02
   License required,
606.03
   Purpose,
606.01
   Requirements,
606.05
   Revocation,
606.08
   Variances,
606.07
BEER LICENSING
   Applications, 702.03
   Closing hours, 702.09
   Clubs, 702.10
   Conditions of the license, 702.08
   Definitions, 702.01
   Granting of license, 702.05
   License fees, 702.04
   License required, 702.02
   Persons ineligible for license, 702.06
   Places ineligible for license, 702.07
   Restrictions on purchase and consumption, 702.11
   Revocation, denial or suspension, 702.12
BLOCKS,
1001.097
BUILDING CODE
   Application, administration, and enforcement,
1003.02
   Building Code optional chapters,
1003.05
   Codes adopted by reference,
1003.01
   Ordinance self-perpetuating,
1003.06
   Permits and fees,
1003.03
   Repeals,
1003.07
   Violations and penalties,
1003.04
BUILDING NUMBER
   Alternative display,
1006.02
   Building numbers required,
1006.01
   City action,
1006.03
BULK LIQUID STORAGE (See ZONING CODE)
BURGLAR AND SAFETY ALARMS, ESTABLISHING USER’S FEES AND ESTABLISHING A SYSTEM
OF ADMINISTRATION; REGULATING THE USE OF
   Administrative rules,
508.06
   Alarm report,
508.05
   Confidentiality,
508.07
   Definitions,
508.02
   Enforcement and penalties,
508.08
   Payment of fees,
508.04
   Scope and purpose,
508.01
   User fees,
508.03
BUSINESS LICENSES
   Applications,
601.02
   Background checks,
601.05
   Display,
601.08
   Fees,
601.04
   Scope,
601.01
   Suspension and revocation,
601.06
   Term,
601.03
   Transfers,
601.09
   Where allowed,
601.07
CABARET LICENSING
   Issuance of license,
703.02
   License required,
703.01
   Term and fee,
703.03
CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS REPORT REQUIRED FROM CANDIDATES FOR MAYOR AND CITY
COUNCIL
   General election laws to apply,
216.01
CANNABIS USE IN PUBLIC PLACES
   Definitions,
502.01
   Penalty,
502.99
   Prohibited activity,
502.02
CANVASSER, TRANSIENT MERCHANT, PEDDLER AND SOLICITOR
   Definitions,
613.01
   Exceptions to definitions,
613.02
   License ineligibility,
613.05
   License suspension and revocation,
613.06
   License transferability,
613.07
   Licensing; exemptions,
613.04
   Penalties,
613.09
   Prohibited activities,
613.08
   Religious and charitable organizations,
613.03
CARELESS DRIVING,
805.04
CHARITABLE AND RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS,
613.03
CHARTER
   Administration of City Affairs
      Administration responsibility, Charter
6.01
      Administrative organization, Charter
6.02
      Basis for hiring and removal, Charter
6.06
      City Administrator, Charter
6.03
      City Clerk, Charter
6.04
      City Treasurer, Charter
6.05
   Council Procedure
      Amendments and repeal of ordinances and resolutions, Charter
3.10
      Council meetings, Charter
3.01
      Emergency ordinances, Charter
3.06
      Liaison function, Charter
3.02
      Ordinances, resolutions and motions, Charter
3.04
      Procedure on ordinances, Charter
3.05
      Procedure on resolutions, Charter
3.08
      Review and revision of ordinances and indexing of resolutions, Charter
3.11
      Rules of procedure and quorum, Charter
3.03
      Secretary of Council, Charter
3.12
      Signing and publication of ordinances, Charter
3.07
      When ordinances and resolutions take effect, Charter
3.09
   Form of Government
      Boards and commissions, Charter
2.02
      Council composition and election, Charter
2.03
      Form of government, Charter
2.01
      Incompatible offices, Charter
2.04
      Investigation of city affairs, Charter
2.08
      Mayor, Charter
2.06
      Salaries, Charter
2.07
      Vacancies, Charter
2.05
   Eminent Domain
      Acquisition of property, Charter
9.01
   Franchises
      Franchises generally, Charter
10.01
      Power of regulation reserved, Charter
10.04
      Public hearing, Charter
10.03
      Renewals or extensions, Charter
10.05
      Term, Charter
10.02
   Initiative, Referendum and Recall
      Determination of sufficiency, Charter
5.03
      Disposition of insufficient or irregular petition, Charter
5.04
      General provisions for petitions, Charter
5.02
      Initiative, Charter
5.05
      Initiative to amend the Charter, Charter
5.06
      Power reserved by the people, Charter
5.01
      Recall, Charter
5.08
      Referendum, Charter
5.07
   Miscellaneous and Transitory Provisions
      City communication, Charter
12.12
      City to succeed to right and obligations of former city, Charter
12.07
      Code of conduct, Charter
12.03
      Effective date, Charter
12.13
      Existing ordinances and resolutions continued, Charter
12.08
      Oath of office, Charter
12.02
      Officers to continue for present terms, Charter
12.09
      Official bonds, Charter
12.04
      Official publication, Charter
12.01
      Ordinance to make Charter effective, Charter
12.11
      Pending condemnations and assessments, Charter
12.10
      Sales of real property, Charter
12.05
      Severability, Charter
12.14      
      Vacation of streets, Charter
12.06
   Name, Boundaries, Powers, and General Provisions
      Charter a public act, Charter
1.03
      Name and boundaries, Charter
1.01
      Powers of the city, Charter
1.02
   Nominations and Elections
      Filing for office, Charter
4.02
      Procedure at elections, Charter
4.03
      Regular municipal election, Charter
4.01
      Special and advisory elections except for elected office, Charter
4.04
      Vacancy of municipal elected office, Charter
4.05
   Public Improvements and Special Assessments
      Assessments for services, Charter
8.05
      Effective Charter provisions, except as provided in Section
8.07, Charter
8.02
      Improvement petition; waiting period waiver, Charter
8.06
      Local improvement ordinances and regulations, Charter
8.03
      Local improvement; special provisions, Charter
8.07
      Power to make improvements and levy assessments, Charter
8.01
      Special assessment procedure, Charter
8.04
   Public Ownership and Operation of Utilities
      Acquisition and operation of utilities, Charter
11.01
      Lease of plant, Charter
11.04
      Notice of public hearing, Charter
11.06
      Public utility; how sold, Charter
11.05
      Purchase in bulk, Charter
11.03
      Rates and finances, Charter
11.02
   Taxation and Finances
      Alterations in the budget, Charter
7.08
      Anticipation certificates, Charter
7.11
      City indebtedness, Charter
7.10
      Council action on budget, Charter
7.06
      Council to control finances, Charter
7.01
      Enforcement of the budget, Charter
7.07
      Emergency debt certificates, Charter
7.12
      Fiscal year, Charter
7.02
      Five-year financial plan, Charter
7.05
      Funds, Charter
7.09
      Submission of budget, Charter
7.04
      System of taxation, Charter
7.03
CITY ADMINISTRATOR (See also CHARTER)
   Appointment, tenure,
205.02
   Authority,
205.04
   Duties and responsibilities,
205.03
   Position established, purpose,
205.01
CITY CHARTER - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY (See also CHARTER)
   Official copies,
201.01
   Purchase of copies,
201.02
CITY CLERK, Charter
6.04
CITY TREASURER, Charter
6.05
CITY CODE
   Administrative search warrants,
101.14
   City Code,
101.01
   Definitions,
101.03
   Effective date of ordinances,
101.09
   Existing rights and liabilities,
101.11
   Hearings,
101.13
   Ordinances repealed,
101.07
   Ordinances unaffected,
101.08
   Penalties,
101.15
   Reasonable time,
101.06
   Reference to other sections,
101.05
   Repeal or modification of ordinance,
101.10
   Rules of interpretation,
101.02
   Severablity,
101.04
   Statutory rules adopted,
101.12
CITY FORESTER
   Appointment and qualifications of city forester,
1008.07
   Authority of city forester,
1008.08
CITY TREE BOARD
   Creation and establishment of City Tree Board,
1008.04
CODE OF CONDUCT (See also CHARTER)
   City employment,
204A.05
   Conflict of interest,
204A.07
   Disclosure,
204A.02
   Procedures,
204A.01
   Removal from office,
204A.06
   Removal of influence,
204A.03
   Representation of interested party,
204A.04
COMMUNITY SERVICE OFFICER,
208.09
CONCEPT PLAN
   Determination of requirement for environmental review documents,
1001.028
   Filing and review of application,
1001.027
   General,
1001.025
   Information required for concept plan,
1001.026
CONTRACTORS
   Application,
605.03
   Bond,
605.05
   Contractors defined,
605.01
   Insurance,
605.06
   Liability,
605.08
   License required,
605.02
   Revocation,
605.07
   Scope of license,
605.04
   Waiver,
605.09
COUNCIL AND COMMISSION PROCEDURES  (See also CHARTER)
   Amendment of rules,
202.20
   Committees,
202.15
   Debate limit,
202.07
   Debate procedure,
202.06
   Divisions of question,
202.11
   Form of question,
202.14
   Limit on motions,
202.10
   Meetings,
202.01
   Motions and resolutions in writing,
202.09
   Open meetings,
202.18
   Order of business,
202.04
   Order of consideration,
202.13
   Ordinances,
202.16
   Petitions,
202.17
   Point of order,
202.08
   Preservation of order,
202.19
   Presiding officer – appointment,
202.02
   Presiding officer – powers,
202.05
   Purpose,
202.22
   Quorum,
202.03
   Recording votes,
202.23
   Robert’s Rules of Order,
202.21
   Scope,
202.24
   Voting,
202.12
COUNCIL COMPENSATION
   Compensation of Mayor and Council members,
203.01
   Worker’s compensation,
203.02
CURFEW FOR MINORS
   Authority,
501.02
   Continuing review and evaluation,
501.08
   Definitions,
501.03
   Enforcement,
501.06
   Exceptions,
501.05
   Penalties,
501.07
   Prohibited acts,
501.04
   Purposes and findings,
501.01
   Severability,
501.09
DANCING; PUBLIC
   Applications,
608.03
   Conditions,
608.04
   Definition,
608.01
   License required,
608.02
DANGEROUS ANIMALS
   Dangerous and potentially dangerous animals,
503.15
   Dangerous animal requirements,
503.16
DANGEROUS OR PERISHABLE PROPERTY,
213.04
DESIGN STANDARDS; SUBDIVISIONS
   Blocks,
1001.097
   Conformity with the Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Code,
1001.095
   Conservation subdivision design,
1001.099
   Easements,
1001.101
   Land requirements,
1001.096
   Lots,
1001.098
   Public utilities,
1001.103
   Storm water management and erosion and sediment control,
1001.102
   Streets and alleys,
1001.100
DISORDERLY HOUSES
   Definitions,
510.01
   Evidence,
510.03
   Operation,
510.04
   Penalty for violation,
510.02
   Presence in or visiting,
510.05
DRIVERS; TAXICAB
   Definition,
604.01
   Eligibility,
604.03
   Identification,
604.04
   License required,
604.02
DRIVING OFFENSES
   Careless driving,
805.04
   Definitions,
805.01
   Motor vehicle noise,
805.06
   Private property,
805.02
   Public property,
805.03
   Speed,
805.05
EASEMENTS
   Easements,
TSO Table IV
   Easements; subdivisions,
1001.101
EDIBLE CANNABINOID PRODUCTS
   Application for license,
617.06
   Application of
Chapter 601,
617.02
   Compliance checks,
617.12
   Days and hours,
617.14
   Definitions,
617.03
   Fee,
617.07
   Ineligible for license,
617.05
   Issuance,
617.08
   License required,
617.04
   Licensee responsibility,
617.13
   Prohibited acts,
617.11
   Purpose,
617.01
   Renewals,
617.10
   Term of license,
617.09
   Violations and penalties,
617.15
ELECTIONS (See CHARTER)
ELM, ASH AND OAK WOOD; TRANSPORTING PROHIBITED,
902.06
EMERALD ASH BORER,
902.01,
902.03,
902.05,
902.06
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
   Definitions,
209.02
   Emergency management a government function,
209.07
   Emergency regulations,
209.06
   Establishment of emergency management organization,
209.03
   Local emergencies,
209.05
   Participation in labor disputes or politics,
209.08
   Policy and purpose,
209.01
   Powers and duties of Director,
209.04
EMINENT DOMAIN
   Acquisition of property, Charter
9.01
ENVIRONMENTAL BOARD
   Compensation of members,
217.04
   Duties,
217.03
   Establishment,
217.02
   Purpose,
217.01
ESCORT AGENCIES; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR,
614.13
EVENTS; SPECIAL
   Applicability,
615.10
   Application for permit,
615.04
   Definitions,
615.02
   Denial of application,
615.07
   Exceptions to the permit,
615.06
   Indemnification,
615.09
   Issuance of permit, conditions and posting,
615.05
   Penalty,
615.08
   Permit required,
615.03
   Purpose and findings,
615.01
EXCAVATION; TRENCHLESS,
304.12
EXHIBITION DRIVING; PROHIBITED,
803.01
FARM ANIMALS,
503.18
FARM OPERATIONS (See ZONING CODE)
FEE SCHEDULE,
218.01
FENCES AND RETAINING WALLS, (See ZONING CODE)
FINAL PLAT
   Filing and requirements for application,
1001.055
   Form and content,
1001.058
   Information required for final plat,
1001.056
   Record plans,
1001.060
   Recording,
1001.059
   Review, approval, or denial,
1001.057
FIRE CODE
   Application, administration and enforcement,
1002.03
   Chapter self-perpetuating,
1002.06
   Definitions,
1002.02
   Fire Code adoption,
1002.01
   Penalties,
1002.05
   Permits and fees,
1002.04
FIRE HYDRANTS
   Temporary connection to fire hydrants,
401.34
   Use of fire hydrants,
401.33
FIREARMS
   Definitions,
504.01
   Discharge of firearms; public parks,
301.12
   Discharge prohibited,
504.02
   Permitted uses,
504.04
   Single ball ammunition,
504.03
FIREWORKS
   Definitions,
1002.12
   Discharge rules and regulations,
1002.17
   Fireworks; in public parks,
301.20
   Fireworks - other,
1002.18
   Generally,
1002.10
   Penalties,
1002.21
   Permit application,
1002.14
   Permit denial, suspension and revocation,
1002.19
   Permit fee,
1002.15
   Purpose,
1002.11
   Sale of fireworks,
1002.13
   Terms and conditions for issuance of permit,
1002.16
   Validity,
1002.20
FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
   Administration,
1103.11
   Amendments,
1103.13
   Definitions,
1103.03
   Establishment of zoning districts,
1103.04
   Flood Fringe District (FF),
1103.06
   Floodway District (FW),
1103.05
   General Floodplain District (GF),
1103.07
   General provisions,
1103.02
   Land development standards,
1103.08
   Manufactured homes, manufactured home parks, recreational vehicle parks and
recreational vehicles,
1103.10
   Nonconformities,
1103.12
   Penalties and enforcement,
1103.99
   Public utilities, railroads, roads, and bridges,
1103.09
   Statutory authorization, findings of fact and purpose,
1103.01
FLOOD PLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT
   Flood Plain Overlay District uses,
1103.06
   Standards for Flood Plain Overlay District uses,
1103.07
FOUND PROPERTY,
213.03
FRANCHISES
   Generally,
Charter Ch. X
   Specifically,
TSO Table II
GAMBLING; LAWFUL
   Adoption of state law by reference,
611.01
   Application and local approval of premises permit,
611.08
   City may be more restrictive than state law,
611.02
   Council approval,
611.07
   Definitions,
611.04
   Hours of operation,
611.14
   Limitation of gambling licenses,
611.06
   Management,
611.13
   Notification of material changes to application,
611.09
   Organizations eligible for lawful gambling,
611.05
   Penalty,
611.15
   Profits from gambling,
611.11
   Purpose,
611.03
   Records and reports,
611.12
GARBAGE; SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
   Commercial solid waste collection required,
507.05
   Definitions,
507.03
   Enforcement and penalty,
507.08
   Purpose,
507.01
   Residential solid waste collection required,
507.04
   Short title,
507.02
   Solid waste disposal,
507.07
   Solid waste storage,
507.06
GRASS AND WEEDS DECLARED TO BE A NUISANCE
   Abatement by city,
904.06
   Appeals,
904.05
   Definitions,
904.01
   Exclusions,
904.08
   Liability,
904.07
   Notice of violations,
904.04
   Nuisance declared,
904.02
   Owner responsible for trimming, removal and the like,
904.03
   Penalty,
904.09
HOME OCCUPATION (See ZONING CODE)
HOUSING MAINTENANCE CODE
   Effective Date
      Effective date and enforcement,
1009.70
   General Provisions
      Access by owner of multiple dwellings,
1009.08 
      Annual inspection of multiple dwellings,
1009.07
      Assurance of rental housing,
1009.02
      Definitions,
1009.04
      Enforcement officer,
1009.05
      Inspection of dwellings,
1009.06
      Notice of violation,
1009.09 
      Pre-existing dwellings and multiple dwellings,
1009.03
      Scope of chapter,
1009.01
   Licenses
      Application,
1009.41
      Conduct on licensed premises,
1009.49
      License fees,
1009.42
      License issuance,
1009.43
      Manager certification,
1009.48
      No retaliation,
1009.51
      Posting of license,
1009.44
      Provisional license,
1009.47
      Recycling services required,
1009.52
      Renewal of license,
1009.45
      Required,
1009.40
      Suspension, revocation, denial and non-renewal of a license,
1009.50
      Transfer of license,
1009.46
   Minimum Standards
      Basic facilities,
1009.23
      Exterior of structures,
1009.21
      Exterior property areas,
1009.20
      Fire safety,
1009.26
      Installation and maintenance,
1009.24
      Interior structures,
1009.22
      Light and ventilation,
1009.25
      Occupant responsibilities,
1009.27
      Rooming houses,
1009.28
   Security Devices
      Key boxes,
1009.60
IMPOUNDING ANIMALS
   Impounding animals,
503.04
   Impounding facility,
503.06
   Impounding strays,
503.05
   Redeeming impounded animals,
503.07
IMPROVEMENTS; SUBDIVISIONS
   Application to city personnel,
1001.150
   Construction plans,
1001.146
   Development agreement,
1001.145
   Enforcement,
1001.149
   Financial security,
1001.148
   Improvement financing,
1001.143
   Injunction,
1001.151
   Maintenance of improvements,
1001.147
   Required private improvements,
1001.142
   Required public improvements,
1001.140
   Severability and supremacy,
1001.152
   Subdivision monuments,
1001.141
   Utility area and unit charges,
1001.144
INDIVIDUAL SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS
   General provisions,
403.02
   Permits,
403.04
   Purpose, applicability, and authority,
403.01
   Standards adopted,
403.03
   Violations and penalties,
403.05
INITIATIVES (See CHARTER)
JOINT POWERS AGREEMENTS
   Intent,
215.01
   Joint powers agreements,
215.02
KENNELS
   Kennel licenses: private and commercial,
503.10
KEY BOXES,
1009.60
LAND REQUIREMENTS; SUBDIVISIONS,
1001.096
LARGE ASSEMBLIES
   Application,
606.04
   Conditions,
606.06
   Enforcement,
606.09
   Large assemblies defined,
606.02
   License required,
606.03
   Purpose,
606.01
   Requirements,
606.05
   Revocation,
606.08
   Variances,
606.07
LAWFUL GAMBLING
   Adoption of state law by reference,
611.01
   Application and local approval of premises license,
611.08
   City may be more restrictive than state law,
611.02
   Council approval,
611.07
   Definitions,
611.04
   Hours of operation,
611.14
   Limitation of gambling licenses,
611.06
   Management,
611.13
   Notification of material changes to application,
611.09
   Organizations eligible for lawful gambling,
611.05
   Penalty,
611.15
   Profits from gambling,
611.11
   Purpose,
611.03
   Records and reports,
611.12
LAWN SPRINKLER/IRRIGATION SYSTEMS,
401.37
LICENSES; BUSINESS
   Applications,
601.02
   Background checks,
601.05
   Display,
601.08
   Fees,
601.04
   Scope,
601.01
   Suspension and revocation,
601.06
   Term,
601.03
   Transfers,
601.09
   Where allowed,
601.07
LIQUOR LICENSING
   Application for license,
701.03
   Compliance checks,
701.12
   Conditions of the license,
701.08
   Granting of license,
701.05
   License fees,
701.04
   License required,
701.02
   Nudity on premises of licensed establishments prohibited,
701.11
   Persons ineligible for license,
701.06
   Places ineligible for license,
701.07
   Restrictions on purchase and consumption,
701.09
   Revocation, denial or suspension,
701.10
   State liquor licensing law,
701.01
   Violations and penalty,
701.13
LITTERING; IN PUBLIC PARKS,
301.04
LOCAL IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURE (See also CHARTER)
   Allowing partial prepayments on assessments,
303.11
   Council procedure and financing,
303.08
   Definitions,
303.02
   Deferment of special assessments,
303.10
   Determination of assessments,
303.09
   Elections,
303.05
   Hearing,
303.04
   Initiation of improvements,
303.03
   Ordering improvement,
303.06
   Purpose,
303.01
   Unapproved improvement projects,
303.07
LODGING, TAX ON
   Administration,
607.13
   Advertising no lodging tax,
607.05
   Appeal,
607.16
   Collections,
607.04
   Definitions,
607.02
   Effective date,
607.18
   Enforcement,
607.12
   Imposition of,
607.03
   Payment,
607.06
      Application of,
607.11
   Penalties,
607.10
   Proceeds, use of,
607.17
   Purpose,
607.01
   Records, examination of,
607.14
   Refunds,
607.08
   Returns,
607.06
      Examination of, adjustments, notices and demands,
607.07
      Failure to file,
607.09
   Violations,
607.15
LOTS,
1001.098
MASSAGE; THERAPEUTIC
   Application for license; license fee,
616.04
   Conditions governing issuance; applicant and other data,
616.06
   Conditions governing issuance; applicant data,
616.05
   Definitions,
616.02
   Grounds for suspension or revocation,
616.09
   Inspection,
616.08
   License required,
616.03
   Purpose and findings,
616.01
   Restrictions on license; regulations,
616.07
   Suspension of license for violations,
616.10
MINOR SUBDIVISION
   Application,
1001.075
   Filing and review of application,
1001.077
   Information requirements,
1001.078
   Procedure,
1001.079
   Qualification,
1001.076
   Recording,
1001.080
   Reports to City Council,
1001.081
MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE,
805.06
MOTORIZED WATERCRAFT
   Definitions,
808.02
   Effective date,
808.08
   Enforcement,
808.04
   Exceptions,
808.05
   Notification,
808.06
   Penalties,
808.07
   Purpose, intent and application,
808.01
   Surface zoning of Peltier Lake by restricting speeds and areas of activity,
808.03
MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM
   Abandoned services,
401.10
   Accounts, how kept,
401.26
   Action to collect charges,
401.30
   Connection applications,
401.19
   Connection with water required,
401.02
   Connections beyond city boundaries,
401.15
   Damage to shut off box,
401.21
   Deficiency of water and shutting off of water,
401.06
   Discontinuance of service for violations,
401.05
   Excavation and construction requirements,
401.12
   General operation,
401.01
   Lawn sprinkler/irrigation systems,
401.37
   Location of stop boxes,
401.23
   Payment of charges,
401.28
   Penalty for late payment,
401.29
   Permits required for air conditioning,
401.18
   Private water supplies,
401.13
   Private wells,
401.16
   Repair of leaks,
401.09
   Service charges,
401.20
   Service pipes,
401.11
   Supervision by plumber; bond required,
401.24
   Supply from one service,
401.07
   Tampering,
401.35
   Tapping of mains prohibited,
401.08
   Temporary connection to fire hydrants,
401.34
   Time for connections,
401.22
   Turning on water,
401.25
   Use confined to premises,
401.14
   Use of fire hydrants,
401.33
   Use of water for air conditioning,
401.17
   Use of water restricted to authorized persons,
401.03
   Utilities superintendent,
401.36
   Water meter setting,
401.32
   Water meters,
401.31
   Water rates,
401.27
   Willful damage to water system,
401.04
NOISE (See also ZONING CODE)
   Motor vehicle,
805.06
NUDE MODEL STUDIOS; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR,
614.14
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
   Declaration of policy,
903.01
   Hearing examiner,
903.02
   Inspection and investigation,
903.03
   Penalty,
903.06
   Procedure for removal of public nuisances,
903.04
   Validity,
903.05
NUISANCES
   Generally
      Abatement,
901.05
      Enforcement,
901.04
      Public nuisance defined,
901.01
      Public nuisances affecting health,
901.02
      Public nuisances affecting peace and safety,
901.03
   Nuisance Abatement Procedure
      Declaration of policy,
903.01
      Hearing examiner,
903.02
      Inspection and investigation,
903.03
      Penalty,
903.06
      Procedure for removal of public nuisances,
903.04
      Validity,
903.05
OAK, ASH AND ELM WOOD; TRANSPORTING PROHIBITED,
902.06
OBSTRUCTION; STREET
   Obstruction prohibited,
804.01
   Removal,
804.02
OFFICER AND EMPLOYEE BONDS
   Amounts,
206.01
   Premium,
206.03
   Term; conditions,
206.02
OPEN BURNING
   Burning ban or air quality alert,
505.06
   Definitions,
505.02
   Open burning permits,
505.05
   Prohibited materials,
505.03
   Purpose,
505.01
   Statutes adopted by reference,
505.04
   Violation,
505.07
OPEN FIRES PROHIBITED; IN PUBLIC PARKS,
301.10
PARKING
   Hazards,
802.03
   Impoundment,
802.05
   No parking, stopping, or standing zones,
802.01
   Overnight parking or occupancy; in public parks,
301.09
   Prima facie evidence,
802.04
   Time limit parking zones,
802.02
   Truck and equipment parking,
802.07
   Winter parking restrictions,
802.06
PARKS AND GROUNDS; PUBLIC
   Alcoholic beverages,
301.05
   Cannabis products,
301.06
   City personnel,
301.21
   Climbing of trees and on buildings,
301.18
   Definitions,
301.01
   Discharge of firearms,
301.12
   Erection of structures,
301.03
   Fireworks,
301.20
   Hours,
301.08
   Language, conduct, and attire,
301.17
   Littering,
301.04
   Open fires prohibited,
301.10
   Overnight parking or occupancy,
301.09
   Posting of areas,
301.19
   Posting signs and placards,
301.14
   Removing, defacing, or destroying property,
301.02
   Riding of horses and other animals,
301.15
   Sale of articles,
301.13
   Unattended animals,
301.16
   Variances,
301.21
   Vehicle traffic,
301.07
   Washing of vehicles,
301.11
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
   Appointment and compensation of members,
211.04
   Duties,
211.03
   Establishment,
211.02
   Park naming policy,
211.05
   Purpose,
211.01
PAWNBROKERS; PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS; SECONDHAND GOODS DEALERS
   Application required,
612.08
   Bond required,
612.09
   Business at only one place,
612.20
   Daily reports to Police,
612.11
   Definitions,
612.02
   Denial, suspension or revocation,
612.19
   Expiration of license,
612.07
   Holding period,
612.14
   Inspection of items,
612.16
   Investigation fee,
612.06
   Label required,
612.17
   License classifications,
612.04
   License fees,
612.05
   License required,
612.03
   Police order to hold property,
612.15
   Prohibited acts,
612.18
   Purpose,
612.01
   Receipt required,
612.12
   Records required,
612.10
   Redemption period,
612.13
   Separability,
612.21
PEDDLER, TRANSIENT MERCHANT, CANVASSER AND SOLICITOR
   Definitions,
613.01
   Exceptions to definitions,
613.02
   License ineligibility,
613.05
   License suspension and revocation,
613.06
   License transferability,
613.07
   Licensing; exemptions,
613.04
   Penalties,
613.09
   Prohibited activities,
613.08
   Religious and charitable organizations,
613.03
PELTIER LAKE; SURFACE ZONING OF BY RESTRICTING SPEEDS AND AREAS OF ACTIVITY,
808.03
PERISHABLE OR DANGEROUS PROPERTY,
213.04
PERSONNEL POLICY
   Administration,
207.03
   Appointments,
207.01
   Background checks for job applicants,
207.05
   Compensation plan,
207.04
   Personnel rules and regulations,
207.02
   Indemnification,
207.06
PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD
   Compensation for members,
212.06
   Duties,
212.04
   Meetings,
212.05
   Meetings, officers, procedures,
212.02
   Planning and Zoning Board established and membership,
212.01
   Removal,
212.03
PLATS AND PLATTING
   Final Plat
      Filing and requirements for application,
1001.055
      Form and content,
1001.058
      Information required for final plat,
1001.056
      Record plans,
1001.060
      Recording,
1001.059
      Review, approval, or denial,
1001.057
   Platting authority,
1001.004
   Preliminary Plat
      Filing and review of application,
1001.042
      General,
1001.040
      Information required for preliminary plat,
1001.041
POSSESSION, SALE AND USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES;
REGULATING THE
   Basis for denial of license,
602.05
   Compliance checks,
602.10
   Definitions and interpretations,
602.02
   Exceptions and defenses,
602.12
   Fee,
602.04
   License,
602.03
   Other illegal acts,
602.11
   Prohibited sales,
602.06
   Purpose,
602.01
   Responsibility,
602.09
   Self-service sales,
602.08
   Vending machines,
602.07
   Violations and penalties, 
602.13
PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS; PAWNBROKERS; SECONDHAND GOODS DEALERS
   Application required,
612.08
   Bond required,
612.09
   Business at only one place,
612.20
   Daily reports to Police,
612.11
   Definitions,
612.02
   Denial, suspension or revocation,
612.19
   Expiration of license,
612.07
   Holding period,
612.14
   Inspection of items,
612.16
   Investigation fee,
612.06
   Label required,
612.17
   License classifications,
612.04
   License fees,
612.05
   License required,
612.03
   Police order to hold property,
612.15
   Prohibited acts,
612.18
   Purpose,
612.01
   Receipt required,
612.12
   Records required,
612.10
   Redemption period,
612.13
   Separability,
612.21
PRELIMINARY PLAT
   Filing and review of application,
1001.042
   General,
1001.040
   Information required for preliminary plat,
1001.041
PREMATURE SUBDIVISION,
1001.013
PUBLIC DANCING
   Applications,
608.03
   Conditions,
608.04
   Definition,
608.01
   License required,
608.02
PUBLIC LAND DEDICATION
   Property dedication,
1001.115
PUBLIC PARKS AND GROUNDS
   Alcoholic beverages,
301.05
   Cannabis products,
301.06
   City personnel,
301.22
   Climbing of trees and on buildings,
301.18
   Definitions,
301.01
   Discharge of firearms,
301.12
   Erection of structures,
301.03
   Fireworks,
301.20
   Hours,
301.08
   Language, conduct, and attire,
301.17
   Littering,
301.04
   Open fires prohibited,
301.10
   Overnight parking or occupancy,
301.09
   Posting of areas,
301.19
   Posting signs and placards,
301.14
   Removing, defacing, or destroying property,
301.02
   Riding of horses and other animals,
301.15
   Sale of articles,
301.13
   Unattended animals,
301.16
   Variances,
301.21
   Vehicle traffic,
301.07
   Washing of vehicles,
301.11
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY; ADMINISTRATION AND REGULATION OF
   Abandoned facilities,
304.23
   Appeal,
304.24
   Damage to other facilities,
304.20
   Definitions,
304.02
   Denial of permit,
304.09
   Election to manage the public right-of-way,
304.01
   Indemnification and liability,
304.22
   Inspection,
304.12
   Installation requirements,
304.10
   Issuance of permit; conditions,
304.05 
   Location and relocation of facilities,
304.18
   Mapping data,
304.17
   Permit applications,
304.04
   Permit fees,
304.06
   Permit requirement,
304.03
   Reservation of regulatory and police powers,
304.25
   Revocation of permits,
304.16
   Right-of-way fees and charges,
304.26
   Right-of-way patching and restoration,
304.07
   Right-of-way vacation,
304.21
   Standards during construction or installation,
304.13
   Supplementary applications,
304.08
   Supplementary notifications,
304.15
   Trenchless excavation,
304.12
   Undergrounding,
304.19
   Work done without a permit,
304.14
PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENT
   Amendments to this chapter,
208.10
   Community service officer,
208.09
   Department created,
208.01
   Duties,
208.02
   Police and fire personnel,
208.03
   Public Safety Director,
208.04
   Ranks,
208.05
   Records,
208.06
   Uniforms and equipment,
208.07
   Uniform - when worn,
208.08
PUBLIC UTILITIES,
1001.103 (See also CHARTER)
RABIES
   Rabies; animal bites,
503.14
RECALL (See CHARTER)
RECOVERY OF COSTS
   Enforcement,
214.05
   Escrow deposit required,
214.02
   Fee schedule,
214.03
   Individual fees,
214.04
   Intent,
214.01
   Refunds,
214.06
REFERENDUM (See CHARTER)
REFUSE; SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (See also ZONING CODE)
   Commercial solid waste collection required,
507.05
   Definitions,
507.03
   Enforcement and penalty,
507.08
   Purpose,
507.01
   Residential solid waste collection required,
507.04
   Short title,
507.02
   Solid waste disposal,
507.07
   Solid waste storage,
507.06
REGULATING THE SALE, POSSESSION AND USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND TOBACCO RELATED
DEVICES
   Basis for denial of license,
602.05
   Compliance checks,
602.10
   Definitions and interpretations,
602.02
   Exceptions and defenses,
602.12
   Fee,
602.04
   License,
602.03
   Other illegal acts,
602.11
   Prohibited sales,
602.06
   Purpose,
602.01
   Responsibility,
602.09
   Self-service sales,
602.08
   Vending machines,
602.07
   Violations and penalties, 
602.13
REGULATING THE USE OF BURGLAR AND SAFETY ALARMS, ESTABLISHING USER’S FEES AND
ESTABLISHING A SYSTEM OF ADMINISTRATION
   Administrative rules,
508.06
   Alarm report,
508.05
   Confidentiality,
508.07
   Definitions,
508.02
   Enforcement and penalties,
508.08
   Payment of fees,
508.04
   Scope and purpose,
508.01
   User fees,
508.03
RELIGIOUS AND CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS,
613.03
RESTRICTIVE SOILS
   Application for and processing of permit,
1004.06
   Definitions,
1004.03
   District boundaries,
1004.02
   Exceptions,
1004.05
   Legislative findings and purpose,
1004.01
   Permit standards,
1004.07
   Responsibility,
1004.10
   Restrictive soils permit,
1004.04
   Soil types,
1004.12
   Special conditions,
1004.08
   Time of permit – extensions; renewals,
1004.09
   Variance,
1004.11
RIDING OF HORSES AND OTHER ANIMALS; IN PUBLIC PARKS,
301.15
RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC; ADMINISTRATION AND REGULATION OF
   Abandoned facilities,
304.23
   Appeal,
304.24
   Damage to other facilities,
304.20
   Definitions,
304.02
   Denial of permit,
304.09
   Election to manage the public right-of-way,
304.01
   Indemnification and liability,
304.22
   Inspection,
304.12
   Installation requirements,
304.10
   Issuance of permit; conditions,
304.05 
   Location and relocation of facilities,
304.18
   Mapping data,
304.17
   Permit applications,
304.04
   Permit fees,
304.06
   Permit requirement,
304.03
   Reservation of regulatory and police powers,
304.25
   Revocation of permits,
304.16
   Right-of-way fees and charges,
304.26
   Right-of-way patching and restoration,
304.07
   Right-of-way vacation,
304.21
   Standards during construction or installation,
304.13
   Supplementary applications,
304.08
   Supplementary notifications,
304.15
   Trenchless excavation,
304.12
   Undergrounding,
304.19
   Work done without a permit,
304.14
ROOMING HOUSES,
1009.28
SAFETY AND BURGLAR ALARMS, ESTABLISHING USER’S FEES AND ESTABLISHING A SYSTEM
OF ADMINISTRATION; REGULATING THE USE OF
   Administrative rules,
508.06
   Alarm report,
508.05
   Confidentiality,
508.07
   Definitions,
508.02
   Enforcement and penalties,
508.08
   Payment of fees,
508.04
   Scope and purpose,
508.01
   User fees,
508.03
SALE, CONVEYANCE OR EXCHANGE OF PROPERTY,
TSO TABLE I
SALE OF FIREWORKS,
1002.13
SALE, POSSESSION AND USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES;
REGULATING THE
   Basis for denial of license,
602.05
   Compliance checks,
602.10
   Definitions and interpretations,
602.02
   Exceptions and defenses,
602.12
   Fee,
602.04
   License,
602.03
   Other illegal acts,
602.11
   Prohibited sales,
602.06
   Purpose,
602.01
   Responsibility,
602.09
   Self-service sales,
602.08
   Vending machines,
602.07
   Violations and penalties, 
602.13
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
   Certain connections prohibited,
402.10
   Connection with sewer required,
402.02
   Discharge of surface waters prohibited,
402.08
   Entry upon private property,
402.11
   General operation,
402.01
   Independent systems,
402.06
   Permits, licenses, fees, bond and insurance,
402.04
   Rates and charges,
402.14
   Repair of public right-of-way and gas lines,
402.12
   Standards,
402.05
   Sump pump systems required,
402.08
   Supervision,
402.03
   Tampering with municipal sewer system prohibited,
402.09
   Types of wastes prohibited,
402.07
   Variances,
402.13
SECONDHAND GOODS DEALERS; PAWNBROKERS; PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS
   Application required,
612.08
   Bond required,
612.09
   Business at only one place,
612.20
   Daily reports to Police,
612.11
   Definitions,
612.02
   Denial, suspension or revocation,
612.19
   Expiration of license,
612.07
   Holding period,
612.14
   Inspection of items,
612.16
   Investigation fee,
612.06
   Label required,
612.17
   License classifications,
612.04
   License fees,
612.05
   License required,
612.03
   Police order to hold property,
612.15
   Prohibited acts,
612.18
   Purpose,
612.01
   Receipt required,
612.12
   Records required,
612.10
   Redemption period,
612.13
   Separability,
612.21
SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS; INDIVIDUAL SUBSURFACE (See also ZONING CODE)
   General provisions,
403.02
   Permits,
403.04
   Purpose, applicability and authority,
403.01
   Standards adopted,
403.03
   Violations and penalties,
403.05
SEWER SYSTEM; SANITARY
   Certain connections prohibited,
402.10
   Connection with sewer required,
402.02
   Discharge of surface waters prohibited,
402.08
   Entry upon private property,
402.11
   General operation,
402.01
   Independent systems,
402.06
   Permits, licenses, fees, bond and insurance,
402.04
   Rates and charges,
402.14
   Repair of public right-of-way and gas lines,
402.12
   Standards,
402.05
   Supervision,
402.03
   Tampering with municipal sewer system prohibited,
402.09
   Types of wastes prohibited,
402.07
   Variances,
402.13
SEWER SYSTEM; STORM (See STORM SEWERS)
SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR VIDEOS; REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF,
614.17
SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ADULT USES
   Additional regulations for adult motels,
614.16
   Additional regulations for adult theaters and adult motion picture theaters,
614.15
   Additional regulations for escort agencies,
614.13
   Additional regulations for nude model studios,
614.14
   Appeal,
614.11
   Classification,
614.03
   Definitions,
614.02
   Enforcement,
614.18
   Expiration of license,
614.08
   Injunction,
614.19
   Inspection,
614.07
   Issuance of licenses,
614.05
   License fees; license investigation fees,
614.06
   Licenses,
614.04
   Purpose and intent,
614.01
   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films or videos,
614.17
   Revocation,
614.10
   Suspension,
614.09
   Transfer of license,
614.12
SHADE TREES
   Abuse or mutilation of public trees,
1008.11
   Appointment and qualifications of city forester,
1008.07
   Authority of city forester,
1008.08
   Creation and establishment of City Tree Board,
1008.04
   Definitions,
1008.03
   Duties and responsibilities,
1008.05
   Legality of chapter and parts thereof,
1008.14
   Operation,
1008.06
   Permits required,
1008.09
   Protection of trees,
1008.12
   Public tree care,
1008.10
   Purpose,
1008.01
   Short title,
1008.02
   Violation and penalty,
1008.13
SHOOTING RANGE
   Conditions,
610.03
   License required,
610.01
   Requirements,
610.02
   Revocation,
610.04
SHORELAND MANAGEMENT OVERLAY
   Administration,
1102.04
   Definitions,
1102.03
   General provisions,
1102.02
   Nonconformities,
1102.08
   Shoreland alterations,
1102.09
   Shoreland Overlay District,
1102.05
   Shoreland Overlay District uses,
1102.06
   Shoreland Planned Unit Development (PUD),
1102.13
   Special provisions for commercial, industrial, public/semipublic,
agricultural, forestry, and extractive uses and mining of metallic minerals and
peat,
1102.10
   Statutory authorization and policy,
1102.01
   Subdivision/platting provisions,
1102.12
   Water supply and sewage treatment,
1102.11
   Zoning and water supply/sanitary provisions,
1102.07
SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT
   Shoreland Overlay District,
1102.05
   Shoreland Overlay District uses,
1102.06
SHORELAND PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD),
1102.13
SIGNS
   Administration and enforcement,
1010.003
   Definitions,
1010.002
   General regulations applicable to all zoning districts,
1010.006
   Non-conforming signs,
1010.004
   Prohibited signs,
1010.005
   Purpose, intent and findings,
1010.001
   Severability,
1010.010
   Substitution clause,
1010.009
   Temporary signs,
1010.007
   Zoning district regulations,
1010.008
SINGLE BALL AMMUNITION,
504.03
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
   Abandonment,
305.10
   Appeals,
305.12
   City inspection of a small wireless facility or wireless support structure,
305.09
   Definitions,
305.02
   Denial or revocation of a small wireless facility permit,
305.08
   Establishment of general standards,
305.04
   Fees and costs,
305.15
   Indemnification and defense of city,
305.14
   Insurance,
305.13
   Purpose,
305.01
   Removal of a small wireless facility or wireless support structure,
305.11
   Small wireless facility application review process,
305.05
   Small wireless facility permit applications,
305.03
   Small wireless facility permit conditions,
305.06
   Small wireless facility permit form,
305.07
SNOWMOBILES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES; OPERATION OF
   Age restrictions for snowmobile operation,
807.02
   Definitions,
807.01
   Exemptions from provisions,
807.08
   Operation of all-terrain vehicles within the corporate city limits,
807.07
   Operation of snowmobiles within the corporate city limits,
807.03
   Road crossing by snowmobiles,
807.04
   Snowmobile equipment requirements,
807.06
   Snowmobiles at uncontrolled intersections,
807.05
   Violation; penalty,
807.09
SOIL TYPES,
1004.12
SOILS; RESTRICTIVE
   Application for and processing of permit,
1004.06
   Definitions,
1004.03
   District boundaries,
1004.02
   Exceptions,
1004.05
   Legislative findings and purpose,
1004.01
   Permit standards,
1004.07
   Responsibility,
1004.10
   Restrictive soils permit,
1004.04
   Soil types,
1004.12
   Special conditions,
1004.08
   Time of permit – extensions; renewals,
1004.09
   Variance,
1004.11
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (See ZONING CODE)
SOLICITOR, TRANSIENT MERCHANT, PEDDLER AND CANVASSER
   Definitions,
613.01
   Exceptions to definitions,
613.02
   License ineligibility,
613.05
   License suspension and revocation,
613.06
   License transferability,
613.07
   Licensing; exemptions,
613.04
   Penalties,
613.09
   Prohibited activities,
613.08
   Religious and charitable organizations,
613.03
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
   Commercial solid waste collection required,
507.05
   Definitions,
507.03
   Enforcement and penalty,
507.08
   Purpose,
507.01
   Residential solid waste collection required,
507.04
   Short title,
507.02
   Solid waste disposal,
507.07
   Solid waste storage,
507.06
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS DEFERMENT,
303.10
SPECIAL EVENTS
   Applicability,
615.10
   Application for license,
615.04
   Definitions,
615.02
   Denial of application,
615.07
   Exceptions to the license,
615.06
   Indemnification,
615.09
   Issuance of license, conditions and posting,
615.05
   License required,
615.03
   Penalty,
615.08
   Purpose and findings,
615.01
SPEED,
805.05
STORM SEWERS,
302.10
   Discharges, Regulation of
      Access, suspension of,
405.09
      Definitions,
405.02
      Deicer storage requirements,
405.05
      Enforcement,
405.10
      NPDES permits compliance,
405.06
      Private property, entry upon,
405.08
      Prohibitions,
405.03
         Action required,
405.07
      Property maintenance,
405.04
      Purpose,
405.01
STORMWATER, EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
   Abrogation and greater restrictions,
1011.016
   Adoption by reference,
1011.005
   Applicability,
1011.007
   Definitions,
1011.006
   Enforcement,
1011.015
   Exemptions,
1011.008
   Financial securities,
1011.014
   Findings,
1011.002
   Grading, erosion and sediment control requirements,
1011.010
   Inspections and maintenance,
1011.012
   Jurisdiction,
1011.003
   Plan review procedure,
1011.013
   Statutory authority,
1011.004
   Storm water management and erosion and sediment control,
1001.102
   Stormwater management requirements,
1011.011
   Title,
1011.001
STORMWATER UTILITY
   Appeal of fee,
404.08
   Certification of past due fees on taxes,
404.10
   Credits,
404.05
   Definitions,
404.03
   Exemptions,
404.06
   Findings,
404.01
   General operation,
404.02
   Payment of fee,
404.07
   Penalty for late payment,
404.09
   Stormwater utility fees,
404.04
STREETS
   Street Construction Standards
      Construction completion and warranty,
302.06
      Construction methods,
302.05
      Construction start-up procedure,
302.04
      Definitions,
302.02
      Design standards,
302.03
      Purpose and application,
302.01
      Variations and exceptions,
302.07
   Street Obstruction
      Obstruction prohibited,
804.01
      Removal,
804.02
   Streets and Alleys,
1001.100
   Weight Restrictions
      Purpose,
801.01
      Restrictions,
801.02
      Street usage,
801.03
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
   Concept Plan
      Determination of requirement for environmental review documents,
1001.028
      Filing and review of application,
1001.027
      General,
1001.025
      Information required for concept plan,
1001.026
   Design Standards
      Blocks,
1001.097
      Conformity with the Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Code,
1001.095
      Conservation subdivision design,
1001.099
      Easements,
1001.101
      Land requirements,
1001.096
      Lots,
1001.098
      Public utilities,
1001.103
      Storm water management and erosion and sediment control,
1001.102
      Streets and alleys,
1001.100
   Final Plat
      Filing and requirements for application,
1001.055
      Form and content,
1001.058
      Information required for final plat,
1001.056
      Record plans,
1001.060
      Recording,
1001.059
      Review, approval, or denial,
1001.057
   General Provisions
      Application of rules,
1001.006
      Building permits,
1001.011
      Compliance with Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Code, and official map,
1001.008
      Definitions,
1001.007
      Fees,
1001.009
      Jurisdiction,
1001.003
      MUSA allocation,
1001.014
      Platting authority,
1001.004
      Policy,
1001.005
      Premature subdivision,
1001.013
      Purpose,
1001.002
      Restrictions on filing and recording conveyance,
1001.010
      Title,
1001.001
      Variances,
1001.012
   Improvements
      Application to city personnel,
1001.150
      Construction plans,
1001.146
      Development agreement,
1001.145
      Enforcement,
1001.149
      Financial security,
1001.148
      Improvement financing,
1001.143
      Injunction,
1001.151
      Maintenance of improvements,
1001.147
      Required private improvements,
1001.142
      Required public improvements,
1001.140
      Severability and supremacy,
1001.152
      Subdivision monuments,
1001.141
      Utility area and unit charges,
1001.144
   Minor Subdivision
      Application,
1001.075
      Filing and review of application,
1001.077
      Information requirements,
1001.078
      Procedure,
1001.079
      Qualification,
1001.076
      Recording,
1001.080
      Reports to City Council,
1001.081
   Preliminary Plat
      Filing and review of application,
1001.042
      General,
1001.040
      Information required for preliminary plat,
1001.041
   Public Land Dedication
      Property dedication,
1001.115
   Tree Preservation
      General,
1001.125
      Tree preservation by subdividers,
1001.126
      Tree replacement,
1001.127
SUMP PUMPS,
402.08
TARGETED PICKETING
   Definitions,
511.02
   Preamble,
511.01
   Prohibited activity,
511.03
   Violation/penalty,
511.04
TAX IMPOSED ON LODGING (SEE LODGING, TAX ON)
TAXATION (See CHARTER)
TAXICABS
   Taxicab Drivers
      Definition,
604.01
      Eligibility,
604.03
      Identification,
604.04
      License required,
604.02
   Taxicab Service
      Applications,
603.03
      Certificate and license,
603.02
      Definitions,
603.01
      Defrauding taxicab operator,
603.09
      Issuance of certification,
603.04
      Public service,
603.08
      Rates,
603.07
      Revocation of certificate,
603.05
      Taxicab license issuance,
603.06
      Taxicab stands,
603.10
THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE
   Application for license; license fee,
616.04
   Conditions governing issuance; applicant and other data,
616.06
   Conditions governing issuance; applicant data,
616.05
   Definitions,
616.02
   Grounds for suspension or revocation,
616.09
   Inspection,
616.08
   License required,
616.03
   Purpose and findings,
616.01
   Restrictions on license; regulations,
616.07
   Suspension of license for violations,
616.10
TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES; REGULATING THE SALE, POSSESSION
AND USE OF
   Basis for denial of license,
602.05
   Compliance checks,
602.10
   Definitions and interpretations,
602.02
   Exceptions and defenses,
602.12
   Fee,
602.04
   License,
602.03
   Other illegal acts,
602.11
   Prohibited sales,
602.06
   Purpose,
602.01
   Responsibility,
602.09
   Self-service sales,
602.08
   Vending machines,
602.07
   Violations and penalties,
602.13
TRAFFIC; GENERAL PROVISIONS AND PENALTIES
   Definitions,
806.01
   Penalties,
806.02
TRANSIENT MERCHANT, PEDDLER, CANVASSER AND SOLICITOR
   Definitions,
613.01
   Exceptions to definitions,
613.02
   License ineligibility,
613.05
   License suspension and revocation,
613.06
   License transferability,
613.07
   Licensing; exemptions,
613.04
   Penalties,
613.09
   Prohibited activities,
613.08
   Religious and charitable organizations,
613.03
TRANSPORTING ELM, ASH AND OAK WOOD PROHIBITED,
902.06
TREE DISEASES
   Abatement,
902.02
   Inspection and investigation,
902.03
   Interference prohibited,
902.04
   Nuisances declared,
902.01
   Penalty,
902.07
   Procedure for abatement and removal,
902.05
   Transporting elm, ash and oak wood prohibited,
902.06
TREE PRESERVATION
   General,
1001.125
   Tree preservation by subdividers,
1001.126
   Tree replacement,
1001.127
TREES; SHADE
   Abuse or mutilation of public trees,
1008.11
   Appointment and qualifications of city forester,
1008.07
   Authority of city forester,
1008.08
   Creation and establishment of City Tree Board,
1008.04
   Definitions,
1008.03
   Duties and responsibilities,
1008.05
   Legality of chapter and parts thereof,
1008.14
   Operation,
1008.06
   Permits required,
1008.09
   Protection of trees,
1008.12
   Public tree care,
1008.10
   Purpose,
1008.01
   Short title,
1008.02
   Trees; street construction,
302.11
   Violation and penalty,
1008.13
TRENCHLESS EXCAVATION,
304.12
ULTIMATE FIGHTING
   Definition and purpose,
509.01
   Prohibited conduct,
509.02
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
   Disposal,
213.07
   Found property,
213.03
   Money,
213.05
   Perishable or dangerous property,
213.04
   Procedure,
213.02
   Property seized as evidence,
213.06
   Unclaimed property defined,
213.01
UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT,
401.36
VACATIONS,
TSO TABLE III
VENDING MACHINES,
602.07
WATER METERS
   Water meter setting,
401.32
   Water meters,
401.31
WATER SYSTEM; MUNICIPAL
   Abandoned services,
401.10
   Accounts, how kept,
401.26
   Action to collect charges,
401.30
   Connection applications,
401.19
   Connection with water required,
401.02
   Connections beyond city boundaries,
401.15
   Damage to shut off box,
401.21
   Deficiency of water and shutting off of water,
401.06
   Discontinuance of service for violations,
401.05
   Excavation and construction requirements,
401.12
   General operation,
401.01
   Lawn sprinkler/irrigation systems,
401.37
   Location of stop boxes,
401.23
   Payment of charges,
401.28
   Penalty for late payment,
401.29
   Permits required for air conditioning,
401.18
   Private water supplies,
401.13
   Private wells,
401.16
   Repair of leaks,
401.09
   Service charges,
401.20
   Service pipes,
401.11
   Supervision by plumber; bond required,
401.24
   Supply from one service,
401.07
   Tampering,
401.35
   Tapping of mains prohibited,
401.08
   Temporary connection to fire hydrants,
401.34
   Time for connections,
401.22
   Turning on water,
401.25
   Use confined to premises,
401.14
   Use of fire hydrants,
401.33
   Use of water for air conditioning,
401.17
   Use of water restricted to authorized persons,
401.03
   Utilities superintendent,
401.36
   Water meter setting,
401.32
   Water meters,
401.31
   Water rates,
401.27
   Willful damage to water system,
401.04
WATERCRAFT; MOTORIZED
   Definitions,
808.02
   Effective date,
808.08
   Enforcement,
808.04
   Exceptions,
808.05
   Notification,
808.06
   Penalties,
808.07
   Purpose, intent and application,
808.01
   Surface zoning of Peltier Lake by restricting speeds and areas of activity,
808.03
WEAPONS; FIREARMS
   Definitions,
504.01
   Discharge of firearms; public parks,
301.12
   Discharge prohibited,
504.02
   Permitted uses,
504.04
   Single ball ammunition,
504.03
WEEDS AND GRASS DECLARED TO BE A NUISANCE
   Abatement by city,
904.06
   Appeals,
904.05
   Definitions,
904.01
   Exclusions,
904.08
   Liability,
904.07
   Notice of violations,
904.04
   Nuisance declared,
904.02
   Owner responsible for trimming, removal and the like,
904.03
   Penalty,
904.09
WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
   Purpose,
801.01
   Restrictions,
801.02
   Street usage,
801.03
WELLS; PRIVATE,
401.16
WILD ANIMALS,
503.19
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (WECS) (See ZONING CODE)
ZONING CODE
   Accessory apartments,
1007.057
   Accessory buildings, structures and uses,
1007.044
   Accessory outdoor dining areas,
1007.063
   Administration
      Administration: administrative permits and approvals,
1007.019
      Amendments: text and map,
1007.015
      Certificate of occupancy,
1007.022
      Conditional use permits,
1007.016
      Duties of city staff,
1007.021
      Enforcement and penalties,
1007.023
      Environmental review,
1007.025
      Interim use permits,
1007.017
      Planned unit development (PUD),
1007.024
      Site and building plan review,
1007.020
      Variances and appeals,
1007.018
   Adult uses,
1007.061
   Agritourism,
1007.067
   Air park hangar and access performance standards,
1007.073
   Antennas,
1007.062
   Batch plants,
1007.064
   Business districts
      GB, General Business District,
1007.132
      LB, Limited Business District,
1007.131
      NB, Neighborhood Business District,
1007.130
   Commercial stables,
1007.066
   District provisions (See also Business districts; Industrial districts;
Residential districts; Rural districts; Special districts)
      General zoning district provisions,
1007.090
   Drainage,
1007.058
   Earth moving and land reclamation,
1007.059
   Environmental provisions,
1007.047
   Farming operations,
1007.060
   Fences and retaining walls,
1007.050
   General building and use provisions,
1007.043
   General parcel, lot and yard provisions,
1007.042
   Home occupation permits,
1007.056
   Industrial districts
      BC, Business Campus District,
1007.142
      GI, General Industrial District,
1007.141
      LI, Light Industrial District,
1007.140
   Legislative history,
Ch. 1007, Appendix A
   Model homes with temporary real estate offices,
1007.070
   Motor fuel stations,
1007.072
   Non-conforming uses and structures,
1007.041
   Off-street loading spaces,
1007.053
   Off-street parking,
1007.052
   Opt out of Minn. Stat. 462.3593,
1007.065
   Outdoor lighting,
1007.046
   Outdoor storage,
1007.048
   Private streets,
1007.054
   Purpose,
1007.040
   Refuse and recycling,
1007.045
   Relocated structures,
1007.055
   Residential districts
      R-1, Single Family Residential District,
1007.110
      R-1X, Single Family Executive Residential District,
1007.111
      R-2, Two Family Residential District,
1007.112
      R-3, Medium Density Residential district,
1007.113
      R-4, High Density Residential District,
1007.114
      R-5, High Density Residential and Business District,
1007.115
      R-6, Manufactured Home Park District,
1007.116
   Rules and definitions,
1007.001
   Rural cluster development,
1007.074
   Rural districts
      R, Rural District,
1007.100
      R-X, Rural Executive District,
1007.101
   Screening, landscaping, buffer yards and tree preservation,
1007.049
   Solar energy systems,
1007.069
   Special districts
      PSP, Public and Semi-Public District,
1007.150
      PUD, Planned Unit Development District,
1007.151
   Submission of permit and site plan,
1007.051
   Temporary structures,
1007.071
   Title and application,
1007.000
   Wind energy conversion system (WECS),
1007.068
   Zoning changes,
TSO Table V
   Zoning map of Lino Lakes,
Ch. 1007, Appendix B
 
