CITY OF LONSDALE, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-12 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 2023-320, passed 9-14-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2004-147
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCE FOR THE CITY OF LONSDALE MINNESOTA,
AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
   WHEREAS Minnesota Statutes Sections 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to
cause its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book,
   NOW THEREFORE the City Council of the City of Lonsdale, Minnesota, ordains:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are hereby adopted and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Lonsdale.” This Code of
Ordinances also adopts by reference certain statutes and administrative rules
of the State of Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
   Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles:
      TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Section 3. All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in the Code of Ordinances; provided, this repeal shall not affect any
offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the
effective date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions
of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching
territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain
persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal
property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public
use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor
shall this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of
Ordinances. All fees established in prior ordinances codified in this Code
shall remain in effect unless amended in this code or until an ordinance
adopting a fee schedule is adopted or amended.
   Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a
sufficient publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously
published in the City's official newspaper. The Clerk of the City shall cause a
substantial quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general
distribution to the public at actual cost and shall furnish a copy of the Code
of Ordinances to the County Law Library or its designated depository. The
official copy of this Code of Ordinances shall be marked and be kept in the
office of the City Clerk.
   Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of
the law of the City and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the Courts of the State of Minnesota.
   Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the
City's official newspaper.
   PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LONSDALE, MINNESOTA THIS 13th DAY
OF MAY, 2004.
   APPROVED:
    /s/
   MAYOR
ATTEST:
/s/
CITY CLERK
ORDINANCE NO. 2006-202
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CITY CODE FOR THE CITY
OF LONSDALE, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the second supplement to the City Code of the City of Lonsdale, which
contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the City Code of the City of Lonsdale; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the City Code which are based on or make
reference to sections of Minnesota State Statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intention of the City Council to accept these updated
section in accordance with the changes of the law in the State of Minnesota;
and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LONSDALE,
MINNESOTA:
   1.   That the second supplement to the City Code of Ordinances of the City
of Lonsdale as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   2.   The City Administrator is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the City Code kept on file in City Hall.
   3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure for the immediate
preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the people of
this municipality,
Effective immediately upon acceptance of City Council and published in the
official newspaper.
Adopted by the City Council this 30th day of November, 2006.
Tim Rud /s/          ATTEST:   Joel A. Erickson /s/
Tim Rud, Mayor               Joel A. Erickson, City Administrator
ORDINANCE NO. 2009-229
An Ordinance Enacting and Adopting a Supplement to the Code of Ordinances for
the City of Lonsdale, Minnesota, and Declaring an Emergency
   Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the second and third supplements (S-2 & S-3) to the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Lonsdale, Minnesota, which supplement contains all
ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement
to the Code of Ordinances of this Lonsdale, Minnesota; and
   Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Minnesota State Statutes; and
   Whereas, it is the intent of the City Council of Lonsdale, Minnesota to
accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law in the
State of Minnesota; and
   Whereas, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
Now, Therefore, be it Ordained by the City Council of the City of Lonsdale,
Minnesota:
Section 1.   That the second and third supplements (S-2 & S-3) to the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Lonsdale, Minnesota as submitted by American Legal
Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the
same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   The City Administrator is hereby authorized and ordered to insert
such supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file at
Lonsdale City Hall.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of Lonsdale, Minnesota.
      Ordinance 2009-229 is effective immediately upon acceptance of the
Lonsdale City Council and after its publication in the official newspaper.
Passed and Adopted by the City Council of Lonsdale, Minnesota on this 30th day
of April, 2009.
Tim Rud /s/
Tim Rud, Mayor
                     ATTEST:
                     Joel Erickson /s/
                     Joel Erickson, City Administrator
 
( S E A L )
ORDINANCE 2012-252
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF LONSDALE, MINNESOTA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the fourth and fifth supplements (S-4 and S-5) to the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Lonsdale, Minnesota, which supplements contain all
ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement
to the Code of Ordinances of Lonsdale, Minnesota; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of Lonsdale, Minnesota:
   Section One. That the fourth and fifth supplements to the Code of Ordinances
of the City of Lonsdale, Minnesota as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirely.
   Section Two. Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City of Lonsdale, and the City Administrator is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplements into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file at Lonsdale City Hall.
   Section Three. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure
necessary for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and
general welfare of the people of Lonsdale, Minnesota.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Lonsdale, Minnesota, this
25th day of October, 2012.
   APPROVED:
   Tim Rud /s/
   MAYOR
ATTEST:
Joel Erickson /s/
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
ORDINANCE 2017-273
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF LONSDALE, MINNESOTA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the sixth supplement (S-6) to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lonsdale, Minnesota, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of Lonsdale, Minnesota; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of Lonsdale, Minnesota:
   Section One. That the sixth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Lonsdale, Minnesota as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirely.
   Section Two. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City of Lonsdale, and the City Administrator is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplements into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file at Lonsdale City Hall.
   Section Three. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure
necessary for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and
general welfare of the people of Lonsdale, Minnesota.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Lonsdale, Minnesota, this
26th day of January, 2017.
   APPROVED:
   Tim Rud /s/
   MAYOR
ATTEST:
Joel Erickson /s/
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
ORDINANCE 2018-288
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF LONSDALE, MINNESOTA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the seventh and eighth supplement (S-7 and S-8) to the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Lonsdale, Minnesota, which supplements contain all
ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement
to the Code of Ordinances of Lonsdale, Minnesota; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of Lonsdale, Minnesota:
   Section One. That the seventh and eighth supplements to the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Lonsdale, Minnesota as submitted by American Legal
Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the
same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirely.
   Section Two. Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City of Lonsdale, and the City Administrator is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplements into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file at Lonsdale City Hall.
   Section Three. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure
necessary for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and
general welfare of the people of Lonsdale, Minnesota.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Lonsdale, Minnesota, this
28th day of June, 2018.
CITY OF LONSDALE
Tim Rud /s/
Mayor Tim Rud
                  ATTEST:
                  Joel Erickson /s/
                  City Administrator Joel Erickson
(Seal)
ORDINANCE 2019-298
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING & ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE
CITY OF LONSDALE, MINNESOTA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the ninth supplement (S-9) to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lonsdale, Minnesota, which supplements contain all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of Lonsdale, Minnesota; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of Lonsdale, Minnesota:
   Section One. That the ninth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Lonsdale, Minnesota as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirely.
   Section Two. Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City of Lonsdale, and the City Administrator is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplements into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file at Lonsdale City Hall.
   Section Three. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure
necessary for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and
general welfare of the people of Lonsdale, Minnesota.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Lonsdale, Minnesota, this
8th day of August, 2019.
CITY OF LONSDALE
Tim Rud /s/
Mayor Tim Rud
                  ATTEST:
                  Joel Erickson /s/
                  City Administrator Joel Erickson
(Seal)
ORDINANCE 2020-303
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING & ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT (S-10) TO THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF LONSDALE, MINNESOTA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the tenth supplement (S-10) to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lonsdale, Minnesota, which supplements contain all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of Lonsdale, Minnesota; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of Lonsdale, Minnesota:
   Section One. That the tenth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Lonsdale, Minnesota as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section Two. Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City of Lonsdale, and the City Administrator is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplements into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file at Lonsdale City Hall.
   Section Three. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure
necessary for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and
general welfare of the people of Lonsdale, Minnesota.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Lonsdale, Minnesota, this
21st day of December, 2020.
CITY OF LONSDALE
Tim Rud /s/
Mayor Tim Rud
                  ATTEST:
                  Joel Erickson /s/
                  City Administrator Joel Erickson
(Seal)
ORDINANCE 2022-313
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING & ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT (S-11) TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE CITY OF LONSDALE, MINNESOTA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the eleventh supplement (S-11) to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Lonsdale, Minnesota, which supplements and contains all ordinances of a
general and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of Lonsdale, Minnesota; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of Lonsdale, Minnesota:
   Section One. That the eleventh supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Lonsdale, Minnesota as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section Two. Such supplements shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City of Lonsdale, and the City Administrator is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplements into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file at Lonsdale City Hall.
   Section Three. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure
necessary for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and
general welfare of the people of Lonsdale, Minnesota.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Lonsdale, Minnesota, this
24th day of October, 2022.
CITY OF LONSDALE
Tim Rud /s/
Mayor Tim Rud
                  ATTEST:
                  Joel Erickson /s/
                  City Administrator Joel Erickson
(Seal)
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Lonsdale City Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   (1)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to
the components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may
be referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.”
      (2)   Sections may be referred to and cited by the designation “§”
followed by the number, such as “§ 10.01.” Headings and captions used in this
code other than the title, chapter and section numbers are employed for
reference purposes only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any
section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provision or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of Lonsdale, Minnesota, as
presently established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal
actions at a future time. The term CITY, when used in this code, may also be
used to refer to the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Rice County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. An individual, person, persons, firm, corporation, copartnership,
trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause prescribing and
imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to any
unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the Office of the Clerk-
Treasurer for public inspection. The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide a copy for
sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code, all
future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes adopted by
reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this code
was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal penalties.
      (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime, which is a misdemeanor under this code, including state statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including state statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense,
which is a petty misdemeanor, shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than
$300.
      (3)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the
costs of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
      (4)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (B)   Administrative penalties in lieu of criminal penalties.
      (1)   Purpose. Administrative offense procedures established pursuant to
this chapter are intended to provide the public and the city with an informal,
cost effective and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for
violations of certain ordinance provisions. The procedures are intended to be
voluntary on the part of those who have been charged with administrative
offenses. At any time prior to the payment of the administrative penalty as is
provided for hereafter, the individual may withdraw from participation in the
procedures, in which event the city may bring criminal charges in accordance
with the law. Likewise, the city, in its discretion, may choose not to initiate
an administrative offense and may bring criminal charges in the first instance
or pursue any other penalty specifically imposed for violation of a provision
of this code. In the event a party participates in the administrative offense
procedures, but does not pay the monetary penalty which may be imposed, the
city will seek to collect costs of the administrative offense procedures as
part of a subsequent criminal sentence on the event the party is charges and is
adjudicated guilty of the criminal violation.
      (2)   Administrative offense defined. An administrative offense is a
violation of a provision of this code and is subject to the administrative
penalties set forth in the schedule of offenses and penalties referred to in
division (B)(8).
      (3)   Notice. Any officer of the Lonsdale Police Department, or any other
person employed by the city, authorized by the City Council, and having
authority to enforce this code, shall, upon determining that there has been a
violation, notify the violator, or in the case of a vehicular violation, attach
to the vehicle a notice of the violation. The notice shall set forth the
nature, date and time of the violation, the name of the official issuing the
notice and the amount of the scheduled penalty.
      (4)   Payment. Once the notice is given, the alleged violator may, within
seven days of the time of issuance of the notice, pay the amount set forth in
the schedule of penalties for the violation or notify the city in writing that
they contest the violation. The penalty may be paid in person or by mail, and
payment shall be deemed to be an admission of the violation.
      (5)   Contested case. Any person contesting an administrative offense
shall have the administrative penalty vacated and criminal charges shall be
filed in accordance with the law allowing them the opportunity to contest the
violation in the court system.
      (6)   Failure to pay. In the event a party charged with an administrative
offense fails to pay the penalty and does not notify the city that they are
contesting the violation, a misdemeanor or petty misdemeanor charge may be
brought against the alleged violator in accordance with applicable statutes or,
if applicable, the fine may be levied as an assessment against the property
owner. If the penalty is paid or if an individual is found to not have
committed the administrative offense by the courts, no such charge may be
brought by the city for the same violation.
      (7)   Disposition of penalties. All penalties collected pursuant to this
chapter shall be paid to the city’s Finance Director and shall be deposited in
the city’s general fund.
      (8)   Offenses and penalties. Offenses which may be charged as
administrative offenses and the penalties for such offenses may be established
by resolution of the City Council from time to time. Copies of such resolutions
shall be maintained in the office of the City Administrator.
(Ord. 2008-219, passed 1-31-2008)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   BOARDS AND DEPARTMENTS
         
31.   CITY POLICIES
         
32.   FEES
         
33.   CITY COUNCIL
CHAPTER 30: BOARDS AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
   
30.01   Park and Recreation Advisory Commission
   
30.02   Volunteer Fire and Rescue Department
§ 30.01 PARK AND RECREATION ADVISORY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Purpose. The city operates and maintains public parks and trails for
the benefit and pleasure of its citizens. There is hereby established a
commission to be advisory to the City Council and to be known as the Park and
Recreation Advisory Commission. The Commission shall be organized and have the
duties set forth in this section.
   (B)   Composition.
      (1)   Such Park and Recreation Advisory Commission shall consist of five
members, recommended by the Mayor and approved by the majority of the City
Council. Of the five members, one shall be a City Council member.
      (2)   Of the members of the Commission first appointed, one shall be
appointed for the term of one year, one shall be appointed for the term of one
year, one shall be appointed for the term of two years, one shall be appointed
for the term of three years, one shall be appointed for the term of four years.
Their successors shall be appointed for terms of four years. Both original and
successive appointees shall hold their offices until their successors are
appointed and qualified. Vacancies during the term shall be filled by approval
of the City Council, upon recommendation by the Mayor, for the unexpired
portion of the term. Every appointed member shall, before entering upon the
discharge of his or her duties, take an oath that he or she will faithfully
discharge the duties of his or her office.
      (3)   Members of the Park and Recreation Advisory Commission shall serve
without pay but may be reimbursed for actual expenses accrued in the discharge
of their official duties, with Council approval.
   (C)   Organization, meetings and the like.
      (1)   Officers. The Commission shall elect a chairperson from among its
appointed members for a term of one year and the Commission may create and fill
such other offices as it may determine.
      (2)   Meetings. The Commission shall hold one regular meeting every month
or as determined by the Commission. Regular meetings may be cancelled by the
Chairperson or City Administrator if there is no business before the
Commission. All meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public.
      (3)   Meeting attendance. Any Commissioner who is absent from three
consecutive duly called regular meetings of the Commission shall be deemed to
have resigned unless the absentee provides explanation to the Chairperson.
      (4)   Quorum voting. Three members at a regular or special meeting shall
constitute a quorum. All questions presented for a vote shall be decided by a
simple majority of those present.
      (5)   Records, reports. The Commission shall keep a record of its
transactions, recommendations and resolutions, which record shall be public
record. The Commission shall make monthly report of its activities to the City
Council. Also, on or before March 1 of each year, the Commission shall make a
report of its work during the preceding calendar year to the City Council.
      (6)   Finances. The Commission must receive City Council approval for
each expenditure.
      (7)   Bylaws. The Commission may adopt bylaws and from time to time amend
them. The bylaws, and any amendments to the bylaws, shall be approved by the
City Council.
   (D)   Powers and duties of the Commission. The Commission is hereby
designated to perform the following responsibilities:
      (1)   Consider, review, report and advise on all park and recreational
matters, which the Council may refer to the Commission;
      (2)   Develop immediate and long-range plans for the park and
recreational needs of the citizens of the city, and recommend to the Council a
feasible means of financing such requirements;
      (3)   Recommend to the Council operating policies and procedures for use
in existing parks, and future parks and public lands;
      (4)   The responsibility for enhancing parks through evaluation, planning
and initiating new programs and ideas;
      (5)   Coordinate city programs and area-wide programs, including programs
of the community education;
      (6)   Develop immediate and long-range planning for city-wide bike/
pedestrian pathways; and
      (7)   Act and serve as the City Tree Board.
(Ord. 2002-123, passed 11-20-2002; Am. Ord. 2006-187, passed 1-12-2006; Am.
Ord. 2009-230, passed 7-30-2009; Am. Ord. 2022-309, passed 3-31-2022)
§ 30.02 VOLUNTEER FIRE AND RESCUE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established in the city a Fire and Rescue Department
consisting of a Chief, an Assistant Chief, and not less than 15 or more than 27
Firefighters.
   (B)   (1)   The Chief shall have control over all of the firefighting
apparatus and shall be responsible for its care and condition. The Chief shall
make a report and check with the City Council when presenting the proposed
annual budget as to the condition of the equipment and needs of the Fire and
Rescue Department. The Chief may submit additional reports and recommendations
at any meeting of the City Council and shall report suspensions or requests for
leave of absences of members of the Fire and Rescue Department at the first
meeting of the Council following the suspension/request for leave.
      (2)   The Chief shall be responsible for the proper training and
disciplining of the members of the Fire and Rescue Department, and may suspend
any member for refusal or neglect to obey orders pending final action by the
City Council on their discharge or retention.
   (C)   The Chief shall keep, in convenient form, a complete record of all
fires and rescues. The record shall include the time of the alarm, location of
fire, cause of fire, if known, type of building, name of owner, department(s)
responding to the alarm and other information as may deem advisable or as may
be required from time to time by the City Council or State of Minnesota.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Chief to hold a monthly training for the
Fire and Rescue Department, when the weather permits, and to give the members
instruction in approved methods of firefighting, rescue and fire prevention.
   (E)   The Assistant Chief shall, in the absence or disability of the Chief,
perform all the functions and exercise all of the authority of the Chief.
   (F)   The Chief, Assistant Chief, and Firefighters shall be able-bodied and
not less than 18 or more than 65 years of age. They shall be interviewed and
pass a physical examination and shall become members of the Fire and Rescue
Department only after a one-year probationary period or when all training
requirements are successfully completed, whichever is longer and recommended by
the Chief for acceptance. The Chief, upon approval by the City Council, may
establish additional minimum requirements to be eligible to apply to be a
member of the Fire and Rescue Department.
   (G)   Firefighters absent from three consecutive training sessions shall
forfeit membership in the Department. If they cannot attend the third training
session, they shall give the Chief a written reason for not attending. The
reason(s) will be kept on file by the Chief. The Chief shall have the power to
decide whether the reason(s) is valid as to warrant retention.
   (H)   Compensation for members and officers shall be adopted by a city
resolution.
   (I)   No person who is a member of the Fire and Rescue Department at the
time of the adoption of this section shall be required to serve a probationary
period before becoming a member.
   (J)   The members and officers of the Fire and Rescue Department shall
organize themselves into a firefighters relief association, under rules,
regulations and bylaws subject to approval by the City Council.
(Ord. 95, passed 11-30-1995; Ord. 2023-316, passed 6-29-2023)
CHAPTER 31: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
31.01   Background checks
   
31.02   Revolving loan program
   
31.03   Commercial rehabilitation loan program
§ 31.01 BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this section is to establish regulations
that will allow law enforcement access to Minnesota's computerized criminal
history information for specified non-criminal purposes of employment
background checks for positions described below.
   (B)   Authority.
      (1)   The Lonsdale Police Department is authorized to conduct a criminal
history and driving record background investigation on applicants for positions
with the city as provided by this section. This section applies to applicants
who are finalists for positions with the city and volunteers, where the City
Administrator has determined that conviction of a crime may relate directly to
the position sought.
      (2)   In conducting the background investigation in order to screen
applicants, the Lonsdale Police Department is authorized to access data
maintained in the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension's computerized
criminal history information system in accordance with BCA policy. A summary of
the results of the computerized criminal history data may be released by the
Police Chief to the hiring authority, including the City Council, the City
Administrator or other city staff involved in the hiring process.
      (3)   The City Administrator will determine the level/depth of the
background investigation needed.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   The Police Department may not perform a background investigation
unless the applicant consents in writing to the investigation and proper
release of the information to the City Administrator and/or other staff deemed
appropriate. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of M.S.
Chapter 13, as amended from time to time, regarding the collection, maintenance
and use of the information.
      (2)   An applicant's failure to provide consent may disqualify the
applicant for the position sought. The background check will not be used for
subsequent determinations about the individual, a new background check must be
run, requiring consent of the individual.
      (3)   Except for positions set for in M.S. § 364.09, the city will not
reject an applicant for employment on the basis of the applicant's prior
conviction unless the crime is directly related to the position of employment
sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor
with a jail sentence. If the city rejects the applicant's application on this
basis, the city shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
         (a)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
         (b)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedures set forth in
M.S. § 364.06 as amended from time to time;
         (c)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment;
         (d)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon re-application.
(Ord. 2000-110, passed - -2000; Ord. 2023-318, passed 8-31-2023)
§ 31.02 REVOLVING LOAN PROGRAM.
   (A)   Purpose. The Lonsdale Economic Development Authority (“EDA”) hereby
establishes a Revolving Loan Program in compliance with M.S. Chapter 469. The
overall goal for the Revolving Loan Program is to stimulate Lonsdale’s economy
and expand its tax base by providing low interest loans to small and medium
sized businesses.
   (B)   Administration. The Board of Commissioners of the Lonsdale EDA is the
policymaking and loan recommendation body for the Revolving Loan Program. The
EDA is responsible for revising the guidelines and recommending approval of
loans. The City Council will approve all loans. The EDA staff will be
responsible for day-to-day administration, working with applicants on proposed
projects, collecting data, performing pre-loan analysis, overseeing loan
processing, preparing agreements and monitoring projects progress. In its
discretion, the EDA may choose to pay the applicant’s vendor(s), contractor(s),
subcontractor(s), etc. directly.
   (C)   Eligible loan activities. 
      (1)   Loan funds may be used for:
         (a)   Acquisition of land and/or buildings(s);
         (b)   Rehabilitation of building(s);
         (c)   New construction;
         (d)   Purchase of equipment;
         (e)   Inventory; and
         (f)   Working capital (no more than 25% of loan).
      (2)   To qualify for this program, the business must be located in or
relocating to the City of Lonsdale as defined by corporate city limits.
      (3)   Land and building must be privately owned, taxable property and
proposed for manufacturing and/or commercial activities.
      (4)   All building(s) purchased or rehabilitated with funds from the
Revolving Loan Fund, must be brought into compliance with all Lonsdale building
codes. Proposed uses for the purchased or rehabilitated buildings must comply
with the city’s zoning ordinance.
   (D)   Secondary loan activities. Loans may not be used for refinancing
existing indebtedness.
   (E)   Loan terms/conditions. Financial assistance from the Revolving Loan
Program is designed to make projects economically feasible. Loan terms and
conditions are determined from the information submitted in the loan
application. The following are the minimum loan conditions:
      (1)   Interest Rate. The interest rate shall not be greater than 2%.
      (2)   Term. The purchase or rehabilitation of fixed assets, including
real property or equipment may be financed up to a maximum of ten years. Length
of loans will be determined on a case-by-case basis.
      (3)   Loan amount. The EDA will determine the Loan Amount after
considering the number of jobs the loan will create and the increase to the
city’s tax base. The loan amount will be limited based on funds available.
      (4)   Equity. Each applicant must supply a minimum of 20% of the total
project cost as cash and/or fixed assets. “Sweat equity” will not be considered
part of the equity required by the applicant.
      (5)   Security. The applicant shall provide a minimum of one of the
following forms of collaterals for the principle of the loan: (1) personal and/
or corporate guarantee; (2) letter of credit; (3) U.C.C. filing (on equipment);
(4) lien on a parcel owned by the applicant. If an applicant is leasing or
purchasing the property contract for deed, the owner or deed holder must
approve a lien being placed against the property. The collateral shall be in a
form acceptable to the City Attorney.
      (6)   Project initiation. All loan funds must be expended within six
months from the date of the loan approval. If all funds are not expended with
six months, the applicant may request an extension. If the loan funds are used
for the purchase of property, the applicant shall sign a repurchase agreement
with the EDA/city.
      (7)   Application fee. A non-refundable application fee of $350 shall be
due at the time of the application. In addition, the applicant shall be
responsible for all other expenses relating to the processing of the
application, including but not limited to: attorney fees, credit reports,
closing costs, Dunn & Bradstreet, recording fees, U.C.C. filing, etc.
      (8)   Annually, while there is a balance due on the loan, the borrower
shall provide the EDA an annual income statement and balance sheet for review
by it or its agents. The Revolving Loan Program is intended to be flexible and
assistance is customized to meet the particular needs of individual projects.
   (F)   Application process. The City of Lonsdale shall process and administer
each loan in a manner, which is usual and customary with regard to other loans
under similar circumstances. The basic steps for securing a loan are as
follows:
      (1)   Applicant meets with Lonsdale EDA staff to discuss the proposed
project and loan program guidelines If the proposed project meets program
objectives and other eligibility items, then the applicant shall complete the
application, which includes:
         (a)   Detailed statement describing nature of business and proposed
plans;
         (b)   Project description. Purpose of loan and expected benefits to
the city. Itemize and provide cost estimate for building improvements and/or
equipment;
         (c)   Five-year cash flow projection;
         (d)   Compiled profit and loss statement for the past two years (if
applicable);
         (e)   Personal and business tax returns for the last two years of the
applicant and any other investor in the project (for use in connection with
applicant’s equity requirement);
         (f)   Proof of current ownership of real property, equipment or other
items necessary for project. If the real property is not owned by the
applicant, the applicant shall provide a copy of the lease or contract for
deed; and
         (g)   Proof of applicable insurance;
      (2)   Upon receiving a complete application, Lonsdale EDA staff will
review the application and make a recommendation to the Board of Commissioners.
The EDA will use the following criteria in determining whether to recommend a
loan to the City Council:
         (a)   Probability the project will create long-lasting jobs in
Lonsdale;
         (b)   Applicant’s previous financial stability; and
         (c)   Compliance with city’s codes;
      (3)   Upon a recommendation by the Board, the City Council will consider
the loan request. Upon approval of the loan by the City Council, all necessary
documents in connection with the loan will be prepared by the City Attorney and
shall be executed by the Mayor and City Administrator; and
      (4)   After the agreement is executed, construction or equipment invoices
(invoices for completed work or materials on site) shall be submitted to EDA
staff and checked for monthly approval and payment or as approved on a case-by-
case basis by the EDA Board of Commissioners.
   (G)   Application timetable. Completed applications shall be submitted no
later than the first business day of each month in order to be reviewed by the
EDA at their regular meeting that month. Upon a completed application being
submitted, a decision on the loan will be made within 60 days.
(Ord. 2005-175, passed 7-14-2005; Am. Ord. 2016-268, passed 3-10-2016; Am. Ord.
2017-277, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 31.03 COMMERCIAL REHABILITATION LOAN PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Economic Development Authority of Lonsdale (EDA) is hereby
authorized to establish a Commercial Rehabilitation Loan Program as provided by
M.S. § 469.184 and this section.
   (B)   Loans shall be for rehabilitation and preservation purposes and may be
secured by mortgages on the property or by other security acceptable to the EDA
provides that no mortgage shall be required if the amount of a loan is less
than $7,500.
   (C)   Any loan by the EDA under this program shall not exceed 50% of the
project cost and an approved applicant shall be required to show proof that
their funds have been obtained for financing the balance of the project.
   (D)   The EDA may establish other requirements for the program not
inconsistent with the terms of this section and the provisions of M.S. §
469.184.
(Ord. 2003-140, passed 12-18-2003)
CHAPTER 32: FEES
Section
   
32.01   Fees established
§ 32.01 FEES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   This section shall establish the fees identified herein for the
calendar year 2022, and the level of such fees shall continue thereafter until
changed by City Council ordinance. Any fee currently charged by the city which
is not changed by this section shall continue at the level charged prior to the
adoption of this section until changed by City Council action. Omission from
this section shall not be deemed to be a waiver by the city of its right to
charge a particular fee.
   (B)   The city shall charge fees listed below as hereinafter set forth:
Permit/Application Application Fee Escrow Fee
Permit/Application                 Application Fee                 Escrow Fee
Land Use Fees
Administrative parcel combination/ $300                            0
split**
Administrative permit              N/A                             $50
Annexation                         $750                            $2,500
Boundary adjustment                $750                            $750
Concept plan*                      N/A                             $25,000
Conditional use permit             $300                            $750
Common interest community (CIC)    $750                            $2,500
Comprehensive plan amendment       $750                            $2,500
Environmental assessment worksheet Actual cost                     $5,000
Environmental impact statement     Actual cost                     $5,000
Final plat*                        $750                            $750
Interim use permit                 $750                            $750
Local Government Unit (LGU)
Wetland application review and     Actual cost                     $5,000
decision
Lot combination**                  $750                            $750
Minor revisions to land use permit Half of application fee (within N/A
                                   one year)
Minor subdivision**                $750                            $750
Official zoning map amendment/     $400                            $750
Rezone
Ordinance amendment                $750                            $750
Parcel combination***              $750                            $750
Petition to transfer private road  $750                            $2,500
Planned unit development (PUD)     $750                            $2,500
Preliminary plat*                  $750                            $2,500
R.O.W., easement, vacation         $750                            $1,000
requests
Site plan review (single family    $750                            $750
exempt)
Special meeting fee                $300                            N/A
Variance                           $300                            $750
Zoning request letter              $50                             0
*   Indicates a city-approved Letter of Credit (LOC) is required for all
plats involving public improvements. The total LOC amount shall be approved
as part of the applicable development agreement.
**   Minor subdivisions of less than 3 parcels do not require an escrow.
***   Additional fees may apply.
****   For multiple Land Use applications submitted by the same applicant and
processed at the same time, the city shall determine the required escrow fee.
 
Permit/Application/Service Fee
Permit/Application/Service                        Fee
Water and Sewer Fees (Water and sewer access connection fees are collected at
the time of issuance of a building permit.)
Water Access Connection (WAC)
Size                                              2023 Rate
1-inch                                            $4,250
1 1/4-inch                                        $4,625
1 1/2-inch                                        $5,000
2-inch                                            $5,750
4-inch                                            $8,750
6-inch                                            $11,750
8-inch                                            $14,750
Sewer Access Connection (SAC)
Size                                              2023 Rate
4-inch                                            $5,500
6-inch                                            $7,250
8-inch                                            $9,000
Water Meter
Size                                              2023 Rate
3/4-inch (meter, MXU and miscellaneous equipment) $401.50
3/4-inch (meter only)                             Based on actual cost plus 10%
> 3/4-inch                                        Based on actual cost plus 10%
 
Water and Sewer Usage Charges as of January 3, 2022
Residential and business water charges  
   Base fee                         $14 per month
   0 - 3,000 gallons                $3.25 per 1,000 gallons
   3,001 - 6,000 gallons            $4.25 per 1,000 gallons
   6,001 - 9,000 gallons            $4.75 per 1,000 gallons
   9,001 +                          $5.25 per 1,000 gallons
Bulk water charge                       
   < 5,000 gallons                  $60
   > 5,000 gallons                  $60 for the first 5,000 gallons and
                                       $5.75 per 1,000 gallons thereafter
Water reconnection fee                 $75
Sewer charges
   Base fee                         $20 per month
   Additional                       $6.20 per 1,000 gallons
For the months of January, February and March, customers will be billed based
on the actual water usage. For the remainder of the year, the sewer rate is
based on the average of the January, February and March water usage. The sewer
rate for new utility customers who begin service other than the first full
three months of the year shall have a base rate of 24,000 gallons unless the
usage is less than 24,000 gallons, then the customer will be charged for the
exact usage. This rate will be charged to the customer each billing cycle until
being billed for water usage in January of the following year.
All customers of the municipal water system shall be billed the base fee for
water and sewer unless the city has disconnected their water supply by shutting
off the water at the curb stop.
                                       The City Council will consider an
                                       adjustment to a customer's average sewer
                                       rate billed when circumstances warrant
                                       it. Circumstances that will be
                                       considered by the City Council include
                                       but are not limited to: a defective
Sewer rate adjustments                 water meter, plumbing fixtures that
                                       leaked and have been fixed or plumbing
                                       fixtures that were not programmed
                                       correctly and have been reprogrammed.
                                       Any adjustment made, will only be made
                                       for up to three months after the need
                                       for an adjustment started.
Finance charges
   No approved payment plan         10% of unpaid balance on bills past due
                                       10% of unpaid balance on bills past due.
   Approved payment plan            Payment plans shall only be allowed for
                                       accounts 90 days or less past due
   Convenience fee                  $3 for each payment made by debit/credit
                                       card or e-check
 
 
Trunk Sewer and Water Fees (Adjusted gross acre shall be interpreted as all
property excluding only state highway and county right-of-way, wetlands and
steep slopes over 35%.)
Commercial                     $7,231 per adjusted acre
Industrial                     $7,231 per adjusted acre
Residential                     
   Single family            $3,615.50 per lot
   Twinhome/duplex/townhome $2,711.63 per unit
   Multiple family (apartmen$1,807.75 per unit
 
 
Civil Defense Siren Fee
Residential
   Single family   $100 per dwelling unit
   Multi-family    $75 per dwelling unit
Commercial/Industrial
   Industrial      $200 per acre
   Commercial      $200 per acre
 
 
Development Fee for Signs within Subdivision
Signs (regulatory, advisory, directional, trail, and the like) $250 per sign
 
 
Park Dedication Requirements
Residential           10% of land area, or
   Single family      $1,750 per dwelling unit
   Multi-family       $1,750 per dwelling unit
Commercial/Industrial 10% of land area, or
   Industrial         $2,700 per acre
   Commercial         $2,700 per acre
 
2023 Building Permit Fee Schedule
The following valuation table is used for all general construction when no
specific fee is provided.
1997 Uniform Building Code Fees
Total Valuation Fee
1997 Uniform Building Code Fees
Total Valuation           Fee
   $1 to $500          $23
                          $23.50 for the first $500 plus $3.05 for each
   $501 to $2,000      additional $100, or fraction thereof, to and
                          including $2,000
                          $69.25 for the first $2,000 plus $14.00 for each
   $2,001 to $25,000   additional $1,000, or fraction thereof, to and
                          including $25,000
                          $391.25 for the first $25,000 plus $10.10 for each
   $25,001 to $50,000  additional $1,000, or fraction thereof, to and
                          including $50,000
                          $643.75 for the first $50,000 plus $7 for each
   $50,001 to $100,000 additional $1,000, or fraction thereof, to and
                          including $100,000
                          $993.75 for the first $100,000 plus $5.60 for each
   $100,001 to $500,000additional $1,000, or fraction thereof, to and
                          including $500,000
                          $3,233.75 for the first $500,000 plus $4.75 for each
   $500,001 to $1,000,0additional $1,000, or fraction thereof, to and
                          including $1,000,000
   $1,000,001 and up   $5,608.75 for the first $1,000,000 plus $3.15 for
                          each additional $1,000, or fraction thereof
 
Permit/Application/Service             Fee
Other Inspections and Fees
Inspections outside of normal business $50*
hours
Reinspection fees                      $50*
Inspections for which no fee is
specifically indicated (minimum charge $50*
- 1/2 hour)
Additional plan review required by
changes, additions or revisions to     $50*
plans
For use of outside consultants for     Actual costs**
plan checking and inspections, or both
*   Or the total hourly cost to the jurisdiction, whichever is greatest. This
cost shall include supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly wages and fringe
benefits of the employees involved.
**   Actual costs include administrative and overhead costs.
Plan Check Fee (for Permits Based on Valuation)
Residential                            65% of permit fee
Commercial                             65% of permit fee
Additional Building Permit Fees
State surcharge                         
   Based on valuation of project cos0.0005 x valuation
   Based on a flat fee building perm$1
Inspection card replacement            $50
Building permit refund for cancelled   Cost less 50% of plan review and permit
permit                                 fees
Flat fee building permit refund for    Cost less 50%
cancelled permit
Penalty for work started prior to      Double permit fee
obtaining an approved building permit
Demolition permits                     $100 plus state surcharge of $0.50 and a
                                       $5,000 security deposit
Building permit renewals               1/2 the cost of the original permit
Building (residential only)
Re-roof                                $165
Re-roof (partial/accessory building)   $125
Re-side                                $165
Re-side (partial/accessory building)   $125
Window replacement (no structural      $165
alterations)
Window replacement (2 windows or less) $125
Finish lower level (building)          $281
Finish lower level (with plumbing or   $372
mechanical)
Finish lower level (with plumbing and  $463
mechanical)
Deck                                   $241
Deck (major repair)                    $181
Deck (footings only)                   $125
*   Includes state surcharge fee.
**   Any residential permit not listed, shall be based on the value of the
project.
Mechanical/HVAC (residential only)
Permit/Application/Service           Fee
General/miscellaneous                $91
New home mechanical/HVAC             $206
Furnace replacement                  $91
Air conditioning                     $91
Air exchanger                        $91
Garage and accessory building heater $91
Fireplace                            $91
*   Includes state surcharge fee.
**   Any residential permit not listed, shall be based on the value of the
project.
 
Plumbing (residential only)
Permit/Application/Service Fee
General/miscellaneous      $91
New home plumbing system   $206
Finish or remodel bathroom $125
Lawn irrigation system     $91
Water heater replacement   $91
Water softener             $91
*   Includes state surcharge fee.
**   Any residential permit not listed, shall be based on the value of the
project.
 
Zoning/other (residential)
Permit/Application/Service                          Fee
Sign (single family)                                $0.00
Swimming pool (permanent above ground)              $196
Swimming pool (in ground)                           $381
Temp/portable pool (< 6 months)                     $0.00
Fence (4 feet to less than 6 feet)                  $120
Sheds/accessory buildings (200 square feet or less) $120
Erosion control (new construction/addition)         $295
Residential principle building landscape escrow     $5,000
Off-street parking permit                           $0.00
 
 
Building (commercial only)
Permit/Application/Service Fee
General                    $125
Value based                See Table 1: 1997 Uniform Building Code Fees
 
 
Mechanical/HVAC (commercial only)
Permit/Application/Service Fee
General                    $125
Value based                Value x 2%
 
 
Plumbing (commercial only)
Permit/Application/Service Fee
General                    $125
Value based                Value x 2%
 
Zoning/other (commercial only)
Permit/Application/Service              Fee
Sign(s) replacement                     $90
Sign(s) new wall/building               $110
Sign(s) new free standing               $144
Temp and/or sandwich board sign         $0.00
Fence (4-6 feet tall)                   $144
Shed (less than 200 sq. ft.)            $124
Soil erosion control (new construction/ $295
major project)
Landscape escrow                        $3,000 or 125% of the approved
                                        landscape plan, whichever is greater
*   Includes state surcharge fee.
**   Any commercial permit not listed, shall be based on the value of the
project.
 
Public Works/Engineering
Permit/Application/Service                    Fee
Curb cut                                      $50 plus $1,000 security deposit
City property, right-of-way, easement permit  $150
Grading permit - minor (less than 50 yards of $150
material)
Grading permit - major (greater than 50 yards $500
of material)
Miscellaneous parts, supplies, etc.           City cost plus 10%
Staff time (non-development)                  $71 per hour
 
 
Liquor License Fees
Permit/Application/Service Fee
On sale liquor             $2,000
Sunday liquor              $200
Club license               $100
3.2 off sale               $10
 
Miscellaneous Fees and Permits
Permit/Application/Service           Fee
Tobacco license                      $100
Dog registration license             $20 if paid at City Hall
                                     $30 if paid upon release of impoundment
Beekeeping license                   $150
Beekeeping consultant                Actual cost billed to the city
Park/pavilion/ballfield/ice rink and $40
warming house reservation
Ballfield preparation                $40 per field
Construction site violation fee      $300
Erosion control violation            $500
Snow removal fee                     $2 per square yard
Fire call                            $500
Kennel license                       $100
Adopt-a-Bench program                 
   Without backrest               $450
   With a backrest                $600
Adopt-a-Tree program                 $400
 
Office Fees
Permit/Application/Service            Fee
Photo copies                          $0.25 per page for 100 pages or less and
                                      actual cost for 101 or more pages
Fax                                   $1 per page
Staff time (non-development)          $75 per hour (billed in 15-minute
                                      increments)
Assessment search fee                 $25
Utility billing verification          $25
Copy of zoning ordinance              $0.25 per page up to 100 pages and actual
                                      cost for 101 pages or more
Copy of subdivision ordinance         $0.25 per page up to 100 pages and actual
                                      cost for 101 pages or more
Peddlers, solicitors and/or transient $20 per applicant for background check
merchant license                      $5 per day per applicant
 
Public Safety Fees
Permit/Application/Service Fee
Public Safety Fees
Permit/Application/Service           Fee
Reports                               
   1 - 5 pages                    $5
   6 - 10 pages                   $8
   11 - 20 pages                  $10
   21 - 30 pages                  $15
   31 - 50 pages                  $20
   51 - 100 pages                 $30
   Over 100 pages                 $61 per hour (minimum of 1 hour)
Fingerprints (non-resident)          $20
Preliminary breath test request      $2 per request
Fax                                  $1 per page
Staff time                           $71 per hour (minimum of 15 minutes)
Three-year golf cart permit          $30
Golf cart permit (pro-rated 2 years) $20
Golf cart permit (pro-rated 1 year)  $10
 
Equipment Fees
Permit/Application/Service                          Fee
Loader with attachments                             $181 per hour (includes
                                                    operator)
Loader with snow plowing equipment                  $193 per hour (includes
                                                    operator)
Tractor                                             $117 per hour (includes
                                                    operator)
Tractor with mower                                  $152 per hour (includes
                                                    operator)
Sweeper                                             $123 per hour (includes
                                                    operator)
Lawnmower                                           $123 per hour (includes
                                                    operator)
Dump truck                                          $123 per hour (includes
                                                    operator)
Dump truck with snow plow attachments and sanding   $147 per hour plus material
equipment                                           (includes operator)
Skid loader                                         $123 per hour (includes
                                                    operator)
Service truck                                       $79 per hour (includes
                                                    operator)
Jetter/rodder                                       $214 per hour (includes
                                                    operator)
Televising equipment (only after certificate of     $114 per hour (includes
occupancy is issued)                                operator)
Water/sewer televising inspection                   $97 per inspection
100 gallon/minute water pump                        $63 per hour
200 gallon/minute water pump                        $75 per hour
1,000 gallon/minute water pump                      $117 per hour
Generator                                           $732 per day
                                                    $1,462 per week
Abatement of public nuisances affecting health: §  $164 per lot (based on a
91.04(K) Noxious weeds and other rank growth of     13,000 square foot lot)
vegetation                                           
Abatement of public nuisances affecting health: §  $83 per lot (based on a
91.04(K) Noxious weeds and other rank growth of     13,000 square foot lot)
vegetation (trimming only)
 
Development Fees
Permit/Application/Service Fee
Development Fees
Permit/Application/Service                             Fee
Attorneys fees
   Paralegal rate                                   $94 per hour
   General legal work                               $175 per hour
Development Legal Asst./Law Clerk work                 $130 per hour
   Development work                                 $200 - $400 per hour
Engineering fees
Sr. Principle/Sr. Associate                            $235 per hour
   Principal/associate                              $173 - $223 per hour
   Senior project manager/senior project engineer   $173 - $223 per hour
   Project manager                                  $152 - $170 per hour
   Project engineer/graduate engineer               $102 - $169 per hour
   Engineering technician/engineering specialist    $68 - $167per hour
   Landscape architect/senior landscape architect   $78 - $162 per hour
   Environmental scientist/Sr. environmental scienti$68 - $160 per hour
   Planner/sr. planner                              $80 - $167 per hour
   GIS Specialist/sr. GIS specialist                $78 - $167 per hour
   Construction observer                            $104 - $135 per hour
   Survey (1-person crew)                           $175 per hour
   Survey (2-person crew)                           $235 per hour
   Office technician                                $60 - $102 per hour
Administrative
   Staff                                            $122 per hour
 
(Am. Ord. 2004-141, passed 1-6-2004; Am. Ord. 2004-145, passed 4-15-2004; Am.
Ord. 2005-159, passed 1-6-2005; Am. Ord. 2005-176, passed 7-14-2005; Am. Ord.
2006-184, passed 1-5-2006; Am. Ord. 2007- 203, passed 1-5-2007; Am. Ord. 2007-
210, passed 3-8-2007; Am. Ord. 2008-218, passed 1-7-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-227,
passed 1-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2009-228, passed 3-26-2009; Am. Ord. 2010-234, passed
1-7- 2010; Am. Ord. 2010-235, passed 4-8-2010; Am. Ord. 2010-237, passed 6-10-
2010; Am. Ord. 2011-240, passed 1-6-2011; Am. Ord. 2011-243, passed 6-9-2011;
Am. Ord. 2012-249, passed 1-3-2012; Am. Ord. 2013-255, passed 1-3-2013; Am.
Ord. 2014-256, passed 1-6-2014; Am. Ord. 2014-258, passed 7-31-2014; Am. Ord.
2015-261, passed 1-8-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-266, passed 1-14-2016; Am. Ord. 2017-
272, passed 1-12-2017; Am. Ord. 2017-279, passed 9-14-2017; Am. Ord. 2017-282,
passed 11-9-2017; Am. Ord. 2017-283, passed 1-11-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-286,
passed 3-29-2018; Am. Ord. 2019-293, passed 1-3-2019; Am. Ord. 2020-300, passed
1-2-2020; Am. Ord. 2021-304, passed 1-4-2021; Am. Ord. 2022- 308, passed 1-3-
2022; Am. Ord. 2022-315, passed 12-29-2022)
CHAPTER 33: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
33.01   Meetings
   
33.02   Presiding officer
   
33.03   Minutes
   
33.04   Order of business
   
33.05   Quorum and voting
   
33.06   Ordinances, resolutions, motions, petitions and communications
   
33.07   Committees
   
33.08   Compensation
   
33.09   Suspension or amendment of rules
   
33.10   Elections
§ 33.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held
on the second and last Thursdays of each month at 7:00 p.m. The annual meeting
of the City Council shall be held the first Thursday in January. Any regular
meeting that falls on a holiday shall be held as close to the regular meeting
as possible, at the same time and place. The City Administrator shall maintain
a schedule of the regular meetings. This schedule shall be available for public
inspection during regular business hours at City Hall.
   (B)   Special meetings. The Mayor or any two Council members may call a
special meeting of the Council upon at least 24 hours' written notice to each
member of the Council. This notice must be mailed to all Council members, at
least one day before the meeting and state the time and place of the meeting.
Similar notice shall be mailed or delivered at least three days before the
meeting date to those who have requested notice of such special meeting. This
request must be in writing and filed with the City Administrator, designating
an official address where the notice may be mailed. Such request will be valid
for one year.
   (C)   Emergency meetings. The Mayor or any two Council members may call an
emergency meeting when circumstances require the immediate consideration of a
matter by the Council. Notice may be in writing and personally delivered to
Council members or may be in the form of personal telephone communication.
Notice must include the date, time, place and purpose of such meeting. The City
Administrator shall make a good faith effort to contact everyone that has filed
a request to receive notice of special meetings.
   (D)   Annual meeting. At the first regular Council meeting of January of
each year, the Council shall do the following:
      (1)   Designate the depositories of city funds;
      (2)   Designate the official newspaper;
      (3)   Choose an acting Mayor from the Council members who shall perform
the Mayor's duties during the Mayor's absence, disability from the city or, in
case of vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a successor has been appointed
and qualifies;
      (4)   Appoint necessary officers, employees and members of boards,
commissions and committees; and
      (5)   Review this chapter and make any changes as needed.
   (E)   Public meetings. Except as otherwise provided in the open meeting law,
all Council meetings, including special, emergency and adjourned meetings and
meetings of all Council committees shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 2005-165, passed 2-24-2005; Am. Ord. 2006-185, passed 1-12-2006; Am. Ord.
2016-267, passed 2-11-2016; Am. Ord. 2021-306, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 33.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Who presides. The presiding officer shall be the Mayor. In the absence
of the Mayor, the acting Mayor shall preside. In the absence of both, the City
Administrator shall call the meeting to order and preside until the Council
members present at the meeting choose one of their members to act temporarily
as presiding officer.
   (B)   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce the
rules of procedure herein prescribed and determine without debate subject to
the final decision of the Council on appeal, all questions of procedures and
order. Except as otherwise provided by statute or by these rules, the
proceedings of the Council shall be conducted in accordance with Robert's Rules
of Order, Newly Revised 10th Edition, as amended from time to time.
   (C)   Appeals. Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the
presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member may speak once solely
on the question involved and the presiding officer may explain his or her
ruling but no other Council member shall participate in the discussion. The
appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members
present.
   (D)   Rights of presiding officer. The presiding officer may make motions,
second motions or speak on any question except that on demand of any Council
member the presiding officer shall pass the chair to another Council member to
preside temporarily.
(Ord. 2005-165, passed 2-24-2005; Am. Ord. 2016-267, passed 2-11-2016; Am. Ord.
2021-306, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 33.03 MINUTES.
   (A)   Who keeps. Minutes of each Council meeting shall be kept by the City
Administrator or his/her designee. In the absence of both, the presiding
officer shall appoint a secretary pro tem. Ordinances, resolutions and claims
need not be recorded in the full minutes if they appear in other permanent
records of the City Administrator and can be accurately identified from the
description given in the minutes.
   (B)   Approvals. The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to written
form, shall be signed by the City Administrator and copies shall be delivered
to each Council member as soon as practicable after the meeting. At the next
regular meeting following such delivery, approval of the minutes need not be
read aloud but the presiding officer shall call for any additions, deletions or
corrections. If there are no objections to a proposed addition(s), deletion(s)
or correction(s), it may be made without a vote of the Council. If there is an
objection, the Council shall vote upon the addition(s), deletions(s) or
correction(s). If there are no additions, deletions or corrections, the minutes
shall stand approved.
   (C)   Publication. The City Administrator shall mail a copy of the minutes,
at city expense, to any resident upon request.
(Ord. 2005-165, passed 2-24-2005; Am. Ord. 2016-267, passed 2-11-2016; Am. Ord.
2021-306, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 33.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order established. Each meeting of the Council shall convene at the
time and place appointed. Council business shall be conducted in the following
order:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Pledge of Allegiance;
      (3)   Roll call;
      (4)   Approval of agenda;
      (5)   Approval of minutes;
      (6)   Public hearings;
      (7)   Presentation of citizen petitions and comments;
      (8)   Approval of the consent agenda;
      (9)   Old business;
      (10)   New business;
      (11)   Other business; and
      (12)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Varying order. The order of business may be varied by the presiding
officer but all public hearings shall be held at the time specified in the
notice of the hearing.
   (C)   Agenda. The City Administrator shall prepare an agenda of business for
each regular Council meeting and file a copy at City Hall no later than three
days before the meeting. The agenda shall be prepared in accordance with the
order of business and copies shall be delivered to each Council member and to
others as far in advance of the meeting as time for preparation will permit. No
item of business shall be considered unless it appears on the agenda for the
meeting or is approved for addition to the agenda by a unanimous vote of the
Council members present.
   (D)   Agenda materials. The City Administrator shall see that at least one
copy of printed materials relating to agenda items is available to the public
in the meeting room while the Council considers their subject matter. The
agenda item shall not be considered unless this provision is complied with.
This section does not apply to materials that are classified as other than
public under the Minnesota Government Data Practices Act or materials from
closed meetings.
(Ord. 2005-165, passed 2-24-2005; Am. Ord. 2016-267, passed 2-11-2016; Am. Ord.
2021-306, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 33.05 QUORUM AND VOTING.
   (A)   Quorum. At all Council meetings a majority of the elected Council
members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business but a smaller
number may adjourn the meeting from time to time.
   (B)   Voting. The votes of the members on any questions make be taken in any
manner, which signifies the intention of the individual members and the votes
of the members shall be recorded in the minutes. The vote of each member shall
be recorded on each appropriation of money, except payments of judgments,
claims and amounts fixed by statute. If any member is present but does not
vote, the minutes as to the member's name shall be recorded as an abstention.
   (C)   Votes required. A majority vote of all members of the Council shall be
necessary for approval of any ordinance and/or resolution unless a larger
number is required by statute. Except as otherwise provided by statute, a
majority vote of a quorum shall prevail on all other cases.
(Ord. 2005-165, passed 2-24-2005; Am. Ord. 2016-267, passed 2-11-2016; Am. Ord.
2021-306, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 33.06 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, PETITIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Readings. Every ordinance and resolution shall be presented in
writing. An ordinance or resolution need not be read in full unless a member of
the Council requests such a reading.
   (B)   Signing and publication proof. Every ordinance and resolution passed
by the Council shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by the City Administrator
and filed by the City Administrator in the ordinance or resolution book. Proof
of publication of every ordinance shall be attached and filed with the
ordinance.
   (C)   Repeals and amendments. Every ordinance or resolution repealing a
previous ordinance or resolution or a section or subdivision thereof shall give
the number, if any and the title of the ordinance or code number of the
ordinance or resolution to be repealed in whole or in part. Each ordinance or
resolution amending an existing ordinance or resolution or part thereof shall
set forth in full each amended section or subdivision as it will read with the
amendment.
   (D)   Motions, petitions and communications. Every motion shall be stated in
full before the presiding officer submits it to a vote and shall be recorded in
the minutes. Every petition or other communication addressed to the Council
shall be in writing and shall be read in full upon presentation to the Council
unless the Council dispenses with the reading. Each petition or other
communication shall be recorded with the minutes in City Hall.
(Ord. 2005-165, passed 2-24-2005; Am. Ord. 2016-267, passed 2-11-2016; Am. Ord.
2021-306, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 33.07 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Committees designated.
      (1)   The following committees shall be appointed by the Mayor and
approved by a majority vote of the Council at the annual meeting held the first
Thursday of January each year:
         (a)   Planning Commission;
         (b)   Park and Recreation;
         (c)   Economic Development Authority; and
         (d)   Library.
      (2)   The Council may create such committees, standing or special, as it
deems necessary. Committees shall consist of as many members and perform such
duties as the Council may require.
   (B)   Referral and reports. Any matter brought before the Council for
consideration may be referred by the presiding officer to the appropriate
committee or to a special committee that the presiding officer appoints for a
written report and recommendation before it is considered by the Council as a
whole. A majority of the members of the committee shall sign the report and
file it with the City Administrator prior to the Council meeting at which it is
to be submitted. Minority reports may be submitted. Each committee shall act
promptly and faithfully on any matter referred to it.
(Ord. 2005-165, passed 2-24-2005; Am. Ord. 2016-267, passed 2-11-2016; Am. Ord.
2021-306, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 33.08 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation payable to the duly elected Mayor of the city shall be $400
per month. The compensation payable to the other duly elected members of the
City Council of the city shall be $300 per month. These salaries shall be paid
bi-annually in June and December of each year.
(Ord. 2005-165, passed 2-24-2005; Am. Ord. 2005-172, passed 5-26-2005; Am. Ord.
2006-186, passed 1-12-2006; Am. Ord. 2016-267, passed 2-11-2016; Am. Ord. 2021-
306, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 33.09 SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be suspended or amended only by a two-thirds vote of the
members present and voting.
(Ord. 2005-165, passed 2-24-2005; Am. Ord. 2016-267, passed 2-11-2016; Am. Ord.
2021-306, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 33.10 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Election date fixed. The city general election shall be held on the
first Tuesday after the first Monday in November of each even numbered year,
beginning with the 2024 election. There shall be no regular city election in
2023.
   (B)   Terms. The term of office for Mayor shall be two years and Council
members shall be four years.
   (C)   Transition to even year elections.
      (1)   The term of the Council members whose current terms would end the
December 31, 2023 are extended to December 31, 2024 and those offices will be
filled at the 2024 city election.
      (2)   The term of the Mayor who is elected in 2021 and will begin their
term on January 1, 2022 and would end December 31, 2024 and that office will be
filled at the 2024 city election.
      (3)   The terms of the Council members who are elected in 2021 and begin
their terms on January 1, 2022 would end on December 31, 2026 and those offices
will be filled at the 2026 City election.
(Ord. 2021-307, passed 10-14-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GARBAGE
         
51.   WATER
         
52.   SEWERS
         
53.   TREES
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Emergency measures
   
50.03   Burning refuse or other matters
   
50.04   Licensing; fees
   
50.05   Compulsory residential list; fees and billing
   
50.06   Residential waste storage
   
50.07   Residential collection
   
50.08   Non-residential collection
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPULSORY DISPOSAL LIST. The list of persons within the city, who by the
provisions of this chapter, are required to pay a monthly unit service fee for
the collection, transportation and disposal of refuse.
   CONTRACTOR. The city or any person, firm or corporation with whom the city
shall contract for the collection, transportation and disposal of refuse.
   FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any residential unit in which two or more persons
reside.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, firm or association.
   PLACE or PREMISES. Any dwelling house; dwelling unit; apartment house or
mobile dwelling unit; trailer or mobile home; retail store; restaurant; rooming
house; hotel; motel; office building; department store; manufacturing,
processing or assembling shop or plant; warehouse; legion club; garage; school;
church; liquor store; and every other place or premises where any person
resides or any business is carried on or conducted within the city.
   REFUSE. Waste, garbage and rubbish of all kinds that accumulate in the
ordinary operation of a household, or commercial or industrial establishment,
including but without limitation thereto grass  trimmings, ashes, tin cans and
tree branches that are small enough to be placed in a 30-gallon standard type
garbage can contained and placed therein.
   SINGLE RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any residential unit in which one person and only
one person shall reside.
   SITE. An approved sanitary land fill waste disposal site and system,
according to standards established by the state, to which refuse shall be
transported and disposed of.
   UNIT SERVICE FEE. The monthly charge made to owners and occupants of
residential property.
(Ord. 57A, passed - -1978)
§ 50.02 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   This chapter is hereby declared to be an emergency measure for the purpose
of controlling the collection, transportation and disposal of refuse as shall
accumulate within the city and for the purposes of promoting the public health,
safety and welfare of persons residing or carrying on a business within the
city.
(Ord. 57A, passed - -1978)
§ 50.03 BURNING REFUSE OR OTHER MATTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set or maintain within the city any
fire for the purpose of burning refuse or any other matter.
(Ord. 57A, passed - -1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 LICENSING; FEES.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting or
disposing of refuse as shall accumulate within the city without first obtaining
a license therefore from the city.
   (B)   Any person desiring to engage in business shall make written
application for a license on a form provided by the city through the Office of
the City Clerk/Administrator. An annual fee for the granting of the license may
be established in the amount as set by Council ordinance or contract from time
to time. The fee shall be paid to the City Clerk/Administrator at the time as
the completed application is presented.
   (C)   The Council shall, at its regular meeting or any special meeting
called for that purpose, following receipt of a properly completed application,
elect to grant or refuse to grant any license shall be based on consideration
of the public interest with particular reference to the health, safety and
welfare of the people of the city.
   (D)   All licenses issued hereunder shall expire each year and shall be non-
transferable. The fee for licenses issued for a portion of the year shall be
prorated provided that upon cancellation of any license, for whatever cause, no
portion of the fee previously paid shall be refunded.
(Ord. 57A, passed - -1978)
§ 50.05 COMPULSORY RESIDENTIAL LIST; FEES AND BILLING.
   (A)   There is hereby established within the city a compulsory residential
list which shall include every residential dwelling wherein there would
normally accumulate refuse, as defined herein, in the operation of a household.
   (B)   All persons whose names are included in the compulsory residential
list shall be charged a monthly unit service fee for the collection,
transportation and disposal of refuse in accordance with the following
schedule. The unit service fee is based on a maximum collection of waste from
not more than two 30-gallon water and air-tight standard type garbage cans or
containers. Any person desiring additional service shall be charged a fee per
month for each additional garbage can. The unit service fee, plus additional
charge, if any, shall be established annually and shall not be adjusted or
altered during the year.
   (C)   Fees as provided herein for collection, transportation and disposal
services shall be billed and collected by the city as a part of the municipal
water and sewer billing. Service charges shall be charged to the owner or
occupant of the premises served and shall be payable on or before April, July,
October and January at the Office of the City Clerk/Administrator or Treasurer.
In case the service charge is not paid within ten days after the same shall
become due, the City Treasurer shall add 10% to the amount of the service
charge bill and collect the same. As soon as possible after September 1 of each
year, the City Treasurer or Clerk/Administrator shall prepare an assessment
roll for garbage and refuse collection which shall contain a list showing each
lot and parcel of ground with respect to which service charges, levied under
this chapter remain unpaid. The Council shall thereupon levy an assessment for
the unpaid garbage and refuse collection charges. The Treasurer shall certify
the assessment to the County Auditor for collection in accordance with the law.
(Ord. 57A, passed - -1978)
§ 50.06 RESIDENTIAL WASTE STORAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, transport or dispose of
any refuse in the city, except in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   All refuse, such as garbage or other wet or damp matter, shall be
wrapped and stored within a water- and air-tight standard type garbage can or
container having a lid. The garbage can or container shall not exceed a
capacity of 30 gallons.
   (C)   The cans or containers shall be required to be kept adjacent to the
street or alley, accessible to the collector and kept at one place on the
premises, and not more than ten feet from the traveled portion of the street or
alley.
   (D)   Owners and occupants of residential property shall keep their premises
free from undue accumulation of snow so as not to interfere with collection.
Whenever undue accumulation exists, collection will not be made.
(Ord. 57A, passed - -1978)
§ 50.07 RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION.
   (A)   Collection of refuse from all residential units shall be made once
weekly.
   (B)   The City Council shall establish a weekly collection schedule which
shall specify the day or days on which collection shall be made from the
particular residential unit. Owners and occupants of residential units shall
familiarize themselves with the schedule and keep refuse available for
collection, as herein provided, on the day or days as are designated. The
Council may, wherever necessary and essential for proper collection and to
maintain the health and safety of the community, alter the schedule.
(Ord. 57A, passed - -1978)
§ 50.08 NON-RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION.
   Because of the variation, both as to the amount and type of refuse from
commercial and industrial establishments, the rate for collection shall be
negotiated on an individual basis by the collector and the establishment. The
negotiated rate shall form the basis of a charge which shall be billed by the
city to the establishment as a part of the municipal water billing. Collection
from any commercial or industrial establishment shall not be compulsory and any
establishment may, at its election, haul its refuse to the site and pay the
land fill rate as established by the county.
(Ord. 57A, passed - -1978)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Tapping into water main
   
51.02   Hiring contractors
   
51.03   Water meters; application
   
51.04   Water meter readings
   
51.05   Rental property; sale
   
51.06   Water rates
   
51.07   Restrictions; supply
§ 51.01 TAPPING INTO WATER MAIN.
   (A)   No person, persons, firms or corporations shall be allowed to tap the
city water mains, except as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to tap into the city water
main shall apply for an application through the City Clerk/Administrator.
Application will include a water connection charge as adopted by Council
resolution, and the rate shall become effective upon publication in the local
paper. Upon approval of the application, the property owner shall be liable for
obtaining the permit the furnishing one copy to installer. The property owner
shall pay for all permits for the digging of city streets before digging is
allowed. On city streets and city property, only Type "K" copper tubing shall
be used specified in permit, the tubing to be installed at least six feet deep,
and shall be maintained at that level to the structure on private property, or
as otherwise approved by the inspector. The city shall not be liable for any
other installation, except that authorized under this chapter, being it city
property or private property. The contractor shall furnish to the city
liability insurance both underground and aboveground for personal or property
damage.
   (C)   All persons tapped to the city water main and using water shall keep
their own curb stop and line from the property line in good repair and protect
it from frost at their own risk and expense. The first $1,000 of any repair
expenses from the water main to the curb stop shall be paid by the property
owner and the remainder be paid by the city. Thereafter, the city will be
responsible for the remaining balance, provided it is on city property. All
expenses relating to the installation of a water service line from the water
main into any premises shall be the responsibility of the applicant. The city
will not be liable for repairs for one year after the installation of the water
service line.
   (D)   No service of a residential customer shall be disconnected if the
disconnection affects the primary heat source for the residential unit when the
disconnection would occur during the period between October 15 and April 15,
the customer has declared inability to pay on forms provided by the city, the
household income of the customer is less than 185% of the federal poverty level
as documented by the customer to the city, and the customer's account is
current for the billing period immediately prior to October 15 or the customer
has entered into a payment schedule and is reasonably current with payments
under the schedule. The city shall, between August 15 and October 15 of each
year, notify all residential customers of these provisions.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-29-1999)
§ 51.02 HIRING CONTRACTORS.
   The city will be responsible for hiring the contractor for any repairs that
are on city property. The city will be responsible for all inspections
pertaining to the repairs. The property owner is responsible for all other
provisions of the chapter. Contractors shall furnish the city with a
certificate of insurance, prior to any repairs or installation.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-29-1999)
§ 51.03 WATER METERS; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every firm, person or corporation who before he or she draws water
from the city water mains shall make application to the City Clerk/
Administrator for a water meter, and in which application he or she shall give
the size of service line used, and also give legal description of the premises
where same is to be used. All water meters shall be paid for and owned by the
consumer. All water meters must be set so that they can be easily read and
examined and be provided with suitable protection from frost. At the time of
installation, all water meters shall be sealed by the Superintendent of the
Water Department and seal tampered with or broken shall be charged to the
consumer a penalty.
   (B)   The consumer may request the following adopted policies of the City
Council to request to test the water meter for accounts in usage at their
residents, as follows:
      (1)   He or she must apply for application at the city office.
      (2)   The state requests the date and time during city working hours.
      (3)   The water meter charge for application for testing shall be as set
from time to time by Council.
   (C)   If the water meter reading exceeds 2% accuracy, the meter will be
replaced and a fee will be credited to the next quarterly billing.
   (D)   The city reserves the right to check or replace a water meter at any
time at no charge to the resident, if any indications of improper operation of
meter.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-29-1999)
§ 51.04 WATER METER READINGS.
   (A)   Water meter readings will be conducted at the end of each quarter. The
year will consist of four quarters, 3 months per quarter. An estimated reading
will be used where the reading is not available. All water bills will be
payable at the City Clerk/Administrator's Office within 30 days from the date
of billing. A finance charge of 1.5% per month will be charged on the overdue
bills over 30 days. Thereafter, a past due notice will be sent stating that the
past due bill must be paid in full or water service will be discontinued.
   (B)   The Water Department will discontinue service to the delinquent
consumer by shutting off the water at the curb stop. When water service to any
premises has been discontinued, service shall not be restored, except upon the
full payment of the delinquent bill and an additional fee for restoring the
water service has been paid to the city.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-29-1999)
§ 51.05 RENTAL PROPERTY; SALE.
   (A)   On any rental property, if the city is left with an unpaid bill from
the renter, the bill will be charged to the owner of the property.
   (B)   In any case of the sale of property, any unpaid bill will be stated on
the Clerk/Administrator's certification letter for the assessment search.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-29-1999)
§ 51.06 WATER RATES.
   Water rates shall be adopted by the City Council for the consumers of water
in the city, as deemed necessary. Subsequent changes in the water rates shall
be adopted by Council ordinance.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-29-1999)
§ 51.07 RESTRICTIONS; SUPPLY.
   (A)   The city shall not be liable under any circumstances for any
deficiency or failure in the supply of water to consumers of the municipal
water system, whether occasioned by shutting off water for the purpose of
making repairs or connections or for any other cause whatever.
   (B)   In case of fire or alarm of fire, the city may shut off the water to
insure a supply for firefighting. In making repairs to water mains or extending
the main, the city may shut off the water from the municipal water system at
any time and keep it off for as long as it is deemed necessary.
   (C)   All water consumers of the municipal water system shall, at all
reasonable times, permit the city to enter their premises and buildings to
examine the pipes and fixtures and the manner in which the water is used. The
consumers shall, at all times frankly and without concealment, answer all
questions asked them relative to water consumption.
   (D)   (1)   The Mayor, or the Mayor's designee, may impose seasonal lawn and
garden sprinkling restrictions when it is determined that standards for water
treatment or sufficient reserved water storage capacity is threatened. The
sprinkling restrictions shall be an alternating schedule based on property
address and calendar date. Odd-addressed properties will be allowed to water on
odd-numbered calendar days and even-addressed properties will be allowed to
water on even-numbered calendar days.
      (2)   Upon determination by the City Council, at a regular or special
meeting, that the demand upon the municipal water system threatens the public
safety or health, the City Council may impose more restrictive measures by
limiting the times and hours during which water may be used from the municipal
water system.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any water consumer of the municipal water system
to cause or permit water to be used in violation of the City Council
determination, after public announcement thereof, has been made through all
available news media specifically indicating the restrictions thereof.
(Ord. 100, passed 6-26-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
Use Regulations
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Discharge provisions
   
52.03   Private sewers
   
52.04   Building sewers and connections
   
52.05   Use of municipal system
   
52.06   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
52.07   Rates and charges
Sump Pumps
   
52.20   Purpose
   
52.21   Statement of intent
   
52.22   Definitions
   
52.23   Discharges
   
52.24   Discharge line required
   
52.25   Disconnection
   
52.26   Sump pump required
   
52.27   Transfer of property prohibited
   
52.28   Inspection
   
52.29   Abatement
USE REGULATIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the municipal sewer
or other place of disposal.
   COMMERCIAL PREMISES. All buildings or structures which are not residential
premises, as herein defined.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food
or from the handling, storage and sale of foods or produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes, as distinct
from sanitary sewage and garbage.
   MUNICIPAL SEWER. A sewer operated by the municipality for the benefit of
citizens of the municipality generally.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer designed to serve a single user, provided that a
special permit may be granted by the Superintendent for use of the sewer by one
or additional users.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of foods that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely, under the flow conditions normally prevailing in municipal
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. All buildings or structures occupied and used
exclusively as a home by not more than two families.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Water-carried wastes from toilets, sinks, baths, household
laundries or tubs and similar facilities.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary sewage.
   SEWAGE. Any combination of water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL PLANT. Any arrangement of devices or structures for treating
sewage in order to eliminate or reduce its odor or other harmful or obnoxious
characteristics.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying storm water, sanitary sewage or both.
   SEWER OUTLET. Any termination of a sewer system into a watercourse, pond,
ditch, lake or other body of surface or ground water.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The official charged with the duty of superintending the
municipal sewer system or his or her authorized deputy, agent or
representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel in which a flow of surface
water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 54A, passed - -; Am. Ord. 60B, passed 12-5-1975; Am. Ord. 54B1, passed 9-
28-1989; Am. Ord. 84A, passed 2-26-1998)
§ 52.02 DISCHARGE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited, in an
unsanitary manner, upon public or private property within the municipality, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the municipality, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other similar waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge into any sewer outlet within the
municipality, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the municipality, any
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes or other polluted waters, unless suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with this subchapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   Whenever a municipal sanitary sewer is constructed 100 feet of the
property line of any premises, the Superintendent shall notify the owner of any
building used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or similar uses on
the premises of the fact and direct him or her to install toilet facilities
thereon and to connect the facilities with the municipal sewer in accordance
with this subchapter and the owner shall comply with the order within 90 days
after date of receipt of the notice.
(Ord. 54A, passed - -; Am. Ord. 60B, passed 12-5-1975; Am. Ord. 54B1, passed 9-
28-1989; Am. Ord. 84A, passed 2-26-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.03 PRIVATE SEWERS.
   (A)   Where a municipal sanitary sewer is not available, a private sewer may
be constructed and connected to a private sewage disposal plant complying with
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewer or construction
of a disposal plant, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the Superintendent. The application for the permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the municipality, which the applicant shall supplement by any
plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the municipal
treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewer shall not be final until the installation
is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent. He or she shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction. The applicant shall
notify the Superintendent that the work is ready for final inspection before
any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48
hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private disposal plant
shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of Public Health of the
state. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing sub-surface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 1,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge into any municipal sewer or sewer outlet.
   (E)   Whenever a municipal sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewer, a connection shall be made to the municipal sewer in compliance
with this subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools or other private sewage
disposal plant facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewer and sewage
disposal plant in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
municipality.
   (G)   Nothing herein shall limit any additional requirements that may be
imposed by a health officer.
(Ord. 54A, passed - -; Am. Ord. 60B, passed 12-5-1975; Am. Ord. 54B1, passed 9-
28-1989; Am. Ord. 84A, passed 2-26-1998)
§ 52.04 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use or alter any municipal sewer without first obtaining a
written permit from the Superintendent.
   (B)   Any person desiring sewage service from the municipal sewer for
premises not theretofore connected shall apply to the Superintendent for a
permit. There shall be a separate form of sewer permit for residential and for
commercial service. The owner or an agent may make application on a special
form furnished by the municipality. The application shall be supplemented by
any plans, specifications and other pertinent information. A permit and
inspection fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer at the time the application
is filed. Upon approval of the application, the applicant shall pay to the City
Treasurer, as and for a connection charge, which sum shall be included within
assessments for all initial hookup.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner and the owner shall indemnify
the municipality from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of any building sewer.
   (D)   A separate building sewer shall be provided for every building, except
where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no
private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through
an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building sewer to the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer. Under exceptional circumstances the Superintendent may waive
the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   A building sewer shall be constructed of cast iron soil pipe, ASTM
specification A74-42 or equal vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM specification
C1344T or equal or other suitable material approved by the Superintendent.
Joints shall be tight and waterproof. If installed in filled or unstable ground
a building sewer shall be constructed of cast iron soil pipe, except that non-
metallic material may be accepted if laid on a suitable concrete bed or cradle
as approved by the Superintendent.
   (G)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the Superintendent and in no event shall the diameter be less than
four inches and the slope less than one-eighth inch per foot. The wye
connection and the building drain shall be uncovered and the differential
elevation determined before construction is begun. Where practicable, the
building sewer shall be laid on a uniform grade.
   (H)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to and within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid in straight alignment insofar as possible and
changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe and fittings.
   (I)   Whenever any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
municipal sewer, sewage carried by the drain shall be lifted by approved
artificial means and discharged into the building sewer.
   (J)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless other construction is authorized by the
Superintendent. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with
ASTM specification C12-19. No backfill shall be placed until the work has been
inspected.
   (K)   (1)   All joints and connections shall be made gas-tight and water-
tight. Cast iron pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or hemp and
filled with molten lead, Federal Specification QQ-L-156, not less than one inch
deep. Lead shall be run in one pouring and caulked tight. No paint, varnish or
other coatings shall be permitted on the jointing material until after the
joint has been tested and approved. All joints in vitrified clay pipe and
metals shall be made with approved hot-pouring jointing material.
      (2)   Material for hot-poured joints shall not soften sufficiently to
destroy the effectiveness of the joint when subjected to a temperature of
160°F, nor be soluble in any of the wastes carried by the drainage system. The
joint shall first be caulked tight with jute, hemp or similar approved
material. Other jointing materials and methods may be used by approval of the
Superintendent.
   (L)   The connection of a building sewer with the municipal sewer shall be
made at a wye branch. If the sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less, and no
properly located wye branch is available, the owner may, at his or her own
expense, install a wye branch in the municipal sewer at a location specified by
the Superintendent.
   (M)   The applicant for a sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent when
the building sewer is ready for inspection. The connection shall be made under
the supervision of the Superintendent.
   (N)   Excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a satisfactory manner.
   (O)   Any new construction must install a sump pump or discharge by other
means the drain tiles around any building or any other drains, except sanitary
sewers. No drain tile or other drains, except sanitary sewers will be allowed
to be connected to the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 54A, passed - -; Am. Ord. 60B, passed 12-5-1975; Am. Ord. 54B1, passed 9-
28-1989; Am. Ord. 84A, passed 2-26-1998)
§ 52.05 USE OF MUNICIPAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters into any municipal sanitary sewer without
an express permit from the Superintendent.
   (B)   Storm water or other unpolluted drainage including industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process water may be discharged into the sewers as are
specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes into any municipal sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per
million, by weight, of fat, oil or grease;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Any garbage, except properly shredded garbage;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage system;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals or to create any hazard in the waters
of the sewage disposal plant;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of the character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle the
materials at the sewage treatment plant; and/or
      (8)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   (D)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients, except that the interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located
so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Grease
and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, water-tight and equipped with easily removable covers
which when bolted in place shall be gas-tight and water-tight. All grease, oil
and sand interceptors shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense,
in continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. 54A, passed - -; Am. Ord. 60B, passed 12-5-1975; Am. Ord. 54B1, passed 9-
28-1989; Am. Ord. 84A, passed 2-26-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the municipality
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. If
permission to enter the property is not granted, the Superintendent is
authorized to obtain an administrative search warrant from the district court.
(Ord. 54A, passed - -; Am. Ord. 60B, passed 12-5-1975; Am. Ord. 54B1, passed 9-
28-1989; Am. Ord. 84A, passed 2-26-1998)
§ 52.07 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   There are hereby established just and equitable rates, charges and
rentals for treatment and disposal services and benefits as authorized by M.S.
§ 444.075(3), as it may be amended from time to time. The charges shall from
time to time be at least sufficient to produce net revenues adequate to pay the
principal of and interest on the bonds payable from revenues of the sewage
disposal plant as the principal and interest become due, and to create and
maintain required reserve therefor, and the rates, charges and rentals shall be
revised whenever necessary for the purpose. The rates, charges and rentals
shall be based on minimum monthly charges.
   (B)   (1)   The rates, charges and rentals for sewage treatment and disposal
are as set from time to time by Council ordinance.
      (2)   For all users deemed by the Council or its duly authorized
representative to be considered a high user of water then and in that event the
Council reserves the right to charge an equitable amount suggested to be one
and one-half times water user charge for the cold quarter of each year,
January, February and March.
   (C)   It is hereby found and determined that the sewage disposal plant
prevents pollution of the water supply and where the premises are connected to
the municipal water system, the charge may be a surcharge on and collected with
the regular monthly water bill. In case of non-payment of the sewer surcharge
within 30 days, the Superintendent shall promptly discontinue water service to
the premises. In the event of the discontinuance of water service, the same
shall not be resumed until payment of all past due water and sewer charges,
including penalties thereon and a charge for the resumption of service.
   (D)   Where the premises are not connected to the municipal water service,
the Superintendent may require that separate meters be installed to measure all
sewage to be discharged into the municipal sewer or may refer the matter to the
governing body for special charge and permit.
   (E)   Any claim for any unpaid rates, charges or rentals which have been
properly billed may be collected in a civil action against the owner or
occupant in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (F)   (1)   There shall be maintained within the Sewer Improvement Fund, a
Sewer Maintenance and Construction Account. All receipts from the connection
charge as made and collected pursuant hereto shall be credited to the Sewer
Maintenance and Construction Account. The amount in the Account shall be used
to pay cost of construction, maintenance and repair of main and service sewers.
Any additional expense of the construction, maintenance or repairs shall be
provided out of the general fund of the municipality or from special
assessments against property benefitted by such sewers and shall not be paid
from the other revenues in the Sewer Improvement Fund.
      (2)   All proceeds from the rates, charges and rentals herein provided
shall be credited to the Operation and Maintenance Account of the Fund and
shall be used and applied in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 54A, passed - -; Am. Ord. 60B, passed 12-5-1975; Am. Ord. 54B1, passed 9-
28-1989; Am. Ord. 84A, passed 2-26-1998)
SUMP PUMPS
§ 52.20 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council finds that the discharge of water from the following
sources has on several occasions overloaded the city's sanitary sewer system
and flooded property of large numbers of city residents, infiltration and
drainage water, as defined herein.
   (B)   The Council finds that the damage is caused directly by the backup of
sewage into the living space of residents. The Council further finds that in
addition the backup causes substantial property damage and creates a hazard to
human health.
(Ord. 2000-111, passed 10-27-2000)
§ 52.21 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   The City Council, therefore, finds it necessary for the preservation of
health and the protection of property and to meet State Pollution Control
Agency regulations, to pass and to strictly enforce the following additional
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2000-111, passed 10-27-2000)
§ 52.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Liquid or water borne waste from irrigation or other
agricultural activities.
   AREA DRAIN. A receptacle designed to collect surface or storm water from an
open area.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives a discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning three
feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection or service
connection.
   DRAINAGE WATER. Water discharged from the following sources: roofs, ground
surface, groundwater, agricultural waste, lawn sprinklers, holding ponds,
swimming pools, commercial or industrial waste, footing tiles or any other
source of natural precipitation.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Liquid- or water-borne waste from industrial or commercial
processes, except domestic sewage.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system, including building drains
and pipes from the ground through means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow.
   MPCA. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet including storm sewers and combined sewers which
overflow into a water course, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface water
or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   SUMP. A water-tight tank which receives sewage or liquid waste and which is
located below the normal grade of the gravity system and must be emptied by
mechanical means.
   SUMP PUMP. A mechanical device, other than an ejector, for removing sewage
or liquid waste from a sump.
(Ord. 2000-111, passed 10-27-2000)
§ 52.23 DISCHARGES.
   No drainage water, infiltration or industrial waste, as defined herein,
shall be discharged into the city's sanitary sewer system either directly
through the building sewer or indirectly by any other means.
(Ord. 2000-111, passed 10-27-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.24 DISCHARGE LINE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Dwellings and other buildings and structures which require, because of
infiltration of water into basements, crawlspaces and other sub-surface spaces,
a sump pump system shall have a permanently installed discharge line which
shall not at any time discharge water into the sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   The sump pump discharge line shall provide continuous discharge
capability from the confined space to either:
      (1)   The outside of the dwelling building or structure; or
      (2)   To the city storm sewer provided that the discharge shall at no
time travel through the curb and gutter and onto the street.
   (C)   The discharge line shall consist of a rigid material without valving
or quick connections for altering the path of discharge.
   (D)   If the discharge line is connected to the city storm sewer line it
must include a check valve and an air gap located in a small diameter structure
consistent with the requirements in Minn. Rules part 4715.0100, as it may be
amended from time to time, or as otherwise approved by the city.
(Ord. 2000-111, passed 10-27-2000)
§ 52.25 DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   Any person currently discharging into the sanitary sewer system any
drainage water, industrial waste or otherwise permitting infiltration shall
disconnect and cap any connection.
   (B)   Any opening in the sanitary sewer created by any disconnection under
this provision will be closed or repaired in an effective, workmanlike manner,
as approved by the Public Works Director or other designated agent of the city.
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any opening to remain uncapped.
(Ord. 2000-111, passed 10-27-2000)
§ 52.26 SUMP PUMP REQUIRED.
   (A)   A sump basket and pump shall be required, if upon inspection of a
property owner's basement, crawl space or other sub-surface space, the property
owner cannot establish sufficient evidence of foundation tile or seepage of
water across the basement floor or that his or her foundation tile is exposed
and drains onto the property of the owner and into a natural outlet.
   (B)   If upon inspection and subsequent dye tests, the property owner fails
to establish satisfactorily the elements of this provision, the owner shall,
within 20 days, beginning from the date of inspection, to install a sump
basket, sump pump and sump pump discharge line that conform to the
specifications as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-111, passed 10-27-2000)
§ 52.27 TRANSFER OF PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person to sell or
transfer property that is not in compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person who owns improved property within the corporate limits
shall, prior to selling or transferring the property, contact the city to
arrange an inspection of the property to ensure conformity with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2000-111, passed 10-27-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.28 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Every person owning improved real estate that discharges into the
city's sanitary sewer system shall allow an employee of the city or it's
designated representative to inspect all buildings, drains and connections to
the city's sanitary and storm sewer systems to ensure compliance with this
subchapter. In lieu of a city inspection, any person may provide a certificate
from a licensed plumber certifying that the property is in compliance with this
chapter.
   (B)   Any property owner refusing to allow property inspection or refusing
to provide a plumber's certificate within 14 days of the refusal shall
immediately become subject to penalty provisions provided herein.
   (C)   Any property owner found to violate the subchapter shall make the
necessary changes to comply and furnish proof of the changes to the city.
   (D)   Each sump pump connection on owner's property shall be reinspected on
a yearly basis.
   (E)   Prior to occupancy the builder of any new home within the city shall
be required to install a sump pump system, to have that system inspected, and
to provide a certificate of compliance, as per city specifications, prior to
the earlier of occupancy of the property or sale or transfer of the property.
(Ord. 2000-111, passed 10-27-2000)
§ 52.29 ABATEMENT.
   If any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with this subchapter, the
officer charged with enforcing this subchapter shall, in addition to a penalty,
institute appropriate proceedings at law or an equity to restrain, correct or
abate the violation.
(Ord. 2000-111, passed 10-27-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 53: TREES
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Tree Board
   
53.03   Allowable tree species
   
53.04   Tree planting locations
   
53.05   Public tree care
   
53.06   Tree disease and trees constituting nuisance
   
53.07   Dead or diseased trees on private property
   
53.08   Tree topping
   
53.09   Pruning and clearance
   
53.10   Removal of stumps
   
53.11   Tree and woodland preservation
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY TREE INSPECTOR. A person or company appointed or designated by the city
and given the authority to officially examine trees and to verify compliance
with appropriate tree regulations. The CITY TREE INSPECTOR may or may not be a
certified City Arborist or City Forester.
   PARK TREES. Any tree, shrub, bush or woody vegetation in public parks or on
public land.
   STREET TREES (BOULEVARD TREES). Any tree, shrub, bush or woody vegetation on
land lying between private property line and the street or roadway on either
side of all public streets or roadways.
(Ord. 2009-230, passed 7-30-2009)
§ 53.02 TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Members. The Park and Recreation Commission shall act and serve as the
City Tree Board.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities. It shall be the responsibility of the
Tree Board (Park and Recreation Commission) to study, investigate, counsel and
develop and/or update annually, and administer a plan for the care,
preservation, pruning, planting, replanting or removal of trees and shrubs in
parks, along streets and in other public areas. The plan will be presented
annually to the City Council and upon their acceptance and approval shall
constitute the official comprehensive city tree plan for the city. The Tree
Board, when requested by the City Council, shall consider, investigate,
counsel, make finding, report and recommend upon any special matter of question
coming within the scope of its work.
(Ord. 2009-230, passed 7-30-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Park and Recreation Advisory Commission, see §
30.01
§ 53.03 ALLOWABLE TREE SPECIES.
   (A)   Acceptable trees to plant. Healthy and native tree species including,
but not limited to the following tree species:
      (1)   Deciduous trees:
            American Linden (Tilia Americana)
            American Plum (Prunus Americana)
            Bigtooth Aspen (Populus Grandidentata)
            Bitternut Hickory (Carya Cordiformis)
            Black Ash (Fraxinus Nigra)
            Black Cherry (Prunus Serotina)
            Black Maple (Acer Nigrum)
            Black Oak (Quercus Velutina)
            Black Walnut (Juglans Nigra)
            Bluebeech (Carpinus Caroliniana)
            Bur Oak (Quercus Macrocarpa)
            Butternut (Juglans Cinerea)
            Cultivars (Cleveland)
            Cultivars (Glenleven, Greenspire)
            Cultivars (Green Mountain)
            Cultivars (Kindred, Newpoart, Bergeson, Marshall’s Seedless,
Patmore, Summit)
            Cultivars (Northwood, Firedance)
            Ginkgo (Ginkgo Biloba - male only)
            Green Ash (Fraximus Pennsylvanica)
            Hackberry (Celtis Occidentalis)
            Hawthorn (Crataegus)
            Honeylocust (Gleditsia Tricanthos Inermis)
            Ironwood (Ostrya Virginiana)
            Kentucky Coffeetree (Gymnocladus Dioicus)
            Littleleaf Linden (Tilia Cordata)
            Northern Pin Oak (Quercus Ellipsoidalis)
            Northern Red Oak (Quercus Rubra)
            Pagoda Dogwood (Cornus Alternifolia)
            Paper Birch (Betula Alba Papyriferea)
            Pin Oak (Quercus Palustris)
            Prairie Crabapple (Malus Ioensis)
            Red Maple (Acer Rubrum)
            Redmond Linden (Tilia Americana ‘Redmond’)
            River Birch (Betula Nigra)
            Robusta Poplar (Poplux x Robusta)
            Shagbark Hickory (Carya Ovata)
            Silver Queen Maple - seedless (Acer Saccharinum ‘Silver Queen’)
            Siouxland Cottonwood (Poplux Detoides x Siouxland)
            Sugar Maple (Acer Saccharum)
            Swamp White Oak (Quercus Bicolor)
            Trembling Aspen (Poplus Tremuloides)
            White Ash (Fraxinus Americana)
            White Oak (Quercus Alba)
            Yellow Birch (Belula Lutea)
      (2)   Coniferous trees:
            American Elm - disease tolerant
            Austrian Pine (Pinus Nigra)
            Balsam Fir (Abies Balsamea)
            Black Hills Spruce (Picea Glauca ‘Densata’)
            Canadian Hemlock (Tsuga Canadensis)
            Colorado Spruce (Picea Pungens)
            Douglas Fir (Pseudotsuga Menziesii)
            Eastern White (Thuja Occidentialis)
            European Larch (Larix Decidua)
            Northern White Cedar (Thuja Occidentialis)
            Norway Pine (Pinus Resinosa)
            Ponderosa Pine (Pinus Ponderosa)
            Red Cedar (Juniperus Virginiana)
            Scotch Pine (Pinus Strobus)
            Tamarack (Larix Laricina)
            White Fir (Abies Concolor)
   (B)   Prohibited trees.
      (1)   The following species of trees are declared a public nuisance and
persons are expressly prohibited from planting them: unhealthy and invasive
trees, including, but not limited to the following tree species:
         Black Locust (Robinia Pseudoacacia)
         Box Elder (Acer Negundo)
         Eastern Cottonwood (Populus Deltoides)
         Elm (Ulmus Spp), except the disease tolerant American Elm,
         Russian Olive (Elaeagus Angustifolia)
         Siberian Elm (Ulmus Pumila)
         Silver Maple (Acer Saccharimum)
         Tree of Heaven (Ailanthus Altissima)
         White Poplar (Populus Alba)
      (2)   The following species of trees are prohibited from being planted,
except if deemed appropriate and approved by the City Tree Board and/or City
Tree Inspector:
         Amur/Ginnala Maple (Acer Ginnela)
         Mulberry (Morus)
         Norway Maple (Acer Plantanoides)
         Willow (Salix)
(Ord. 2009-230, passed 7-30-2009) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 TREE PLANTING LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited tree planting locations.
      (1)    No trees shall be planted within the road right-of-way or drainage
and/or utility easement. Exception: In special situations, trees may be planted
within the road right-of-way or drainage and/or utility easement if deemed
appropriate and approved by the Tree Board and/or the City Tree Inspector or
his or her designee.
      (2)   No trees shall be planted closer than 30 feet from any street
corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs. Exception: In
special situations, trees may be planted closer than 30 feet from any street
corner if deemed appropriate and approved by the Tree Board and/or the City
Tree Inspector or his or her designee.
      (3)   No trees shall be planted closer than ten feet from any fire
hydrant. Exception: In special situations, trees may be planted closer than ten
feet from any fire hydrant if deemed appropriate and approved by the Tree Board
and/or the City Tree Inspector or his or her designee.
      (4)   No trees shall be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any
overhead utility wire. Exception: In special situations, trees may be planted
within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility wire if deemed appropriate and
approved by the Tree Board and/or the City Tree Inspector or his or her
designee.
   (B)   Call before you dig. In order to know if any utility lines exist
underground, locates shall be called in before any tree is planted. Call 811,
Know What’s Below, or call Gopher State One-Call at 1-800-252-1166.
(Ord. 2009-230, passed 7-30-2009) Penalty, see §
53.99
Cross-reference:
   Trees in the public right-of-way, see §
92.31
§ 53.05 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within all city rights-of-way, easements and on public
property, as may be necessary to insure public safety or to preserve or enhance
the symmetry and beauty of such public land.
   (B)   The City Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any
tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its
nature is injurious to utility lines or other public improvements, or is
affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to plant, spray, trim or remove trees or
other plants which are upon city property, including rights-of-way, without
first obtaining a written permit to do so from the city.
(Ord. 2009-230, passed 7-30-2009) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 TREE DISEASE AND TREES CONSTITUTING NUISANCE.
   (A)   Policy and purpose. The city has determined that the health of oak and
elm trees is threatened by fatal diseases known as oak wilt and Dutch elm
disease. It has further determined that the loss of oak and elm trees located
on public and private property would substantially depreciate the value of
property and impair the safety, general welfare and convenience of the public.
It is declared to be the intention of the Council to control and prevent the
spread of these diseases, and provide for the removal of dead or diseased trees
as nuisances as permitted by M.S. § 18G.13, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   Scope and adoption by reference.  M.S. Ch. 18G, as it may be amended
from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference, together with the Rules and
Regulations of the Minnesota Commissioner of Agriculture relating to shade tree
diseases; provided, that this code shall govern where this code is more
restrictive.
   (C)   Trees constituting nuisance. The following constitute a public
nuisance wherever they may be found in the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch Elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau or
which harbors one or more of the elm bark beetle Scolytus Multistriatus (EICH)
or Hylungopinus Rufides (Marsh);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including branches, stumps,
firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;
      (3)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Oak Wilt fungus Ceratocystis Fagacearum;
      (4)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion of the
designated city officer constitutes a hazard, including but not limited to
logs, branches, stumps, roots, firewood or other oak material which remains
unstripped of its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide;
      (5)   Any other tree with an epidemic disease;
      (6)   Any tree which, because of its height, breadth or location
interferes with pedestrian use of sidewalks, or otherwise obstructs or
interferes with the safe operation of vehicular traffic on public roadways;
and/or
      (7)   Any tree that because of damage by wind, lightning strike, disease
or other source, or that because of weakened root structure or rot poses a
hazard to safety or property shall be a public nuisance under this section.
(Ord. 2009-230, passed 7-30-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, administration, see §
91.02
   Trees constituting nuisance, see §
91.06(F)
§ 53.07 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the city, when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitutes a
potential threat to other trees within the city. The City Tree Inspector or his
or her designee will notify in writing the owners of such trees via first class
mail which trees must be removed and the necessary removal methods. The owner
shall remove the tree at the owner’s expense within 60 days after the date the
notice was mailed. In the event of failure of owners to comply with such
provisions, the city shall remove such trees and assess the cost of removal
against the owners’ property pursuant to M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 2009-230, passed 7-30-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, administration, see §
91.02
§ 53.08 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or city
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this section at the determination of the City Tree Board and/or City Tree
Inspector.
(Ord. 2009-230, passed 7-30-2009) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09 PRUNING AND CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
city shall prune the branches so that the branches shall not obstruct the light
from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and so
that there shall be clear space of 14 feet above the surface of the street or
sidewalk. The owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or
broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property
when it interferes with safe use of the roadway or sidewalk or with the proper
spread of light along the street from a street light or interferes with
visibility of any traffic control device or sign.
(Ord. 2009-230, passed 7-30-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, administration, see §
91.02
§ 53.10 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All tree stumps shall be removed below the surface of the ground so that the
top of the stump shall not project above the surface of ground.
(Ord. 2009-230, passed 7-30-2009)
§ 53.11 TREE AND WOODLAND PRESERVATION.
   See §
153.065, Tree and Woodland Preservation, as it may be amended.
(Ord. 2009-230, passed 7-30-2009)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter, including maintaining a nuisance
after being notified in writing by first class mail of a violation of any
provision of this chapter, shall be a misdemeanor and punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2009-230, passed 7-30-2009)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
         
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
72.   SNOWMOBILES
         
73.   MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
70.01   Purpose
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   State law adopted by reference
   
70.04   Exhibition driving
   
70.05   Prohibited driving
   
70.06   Excessive or unusual noise
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish traffic rules within the city
and to adopt M.S. Chs. 168, 169 and 171 and Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as they may
be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2011-246, passed 9-29-2011)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle, or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the OWNER for the purpose of this chapter.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices designed to be
moved by human power.
(Ord. 2011-246, passed 9-29-2011)
§ 70.03 STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The following state statutes and rules are hereby adopted by
reference: M.S. Chs. 168, 169 and 171, and Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as these
statutes and rules may be amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by
reference.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that all future amendments to
any statutes and rules referenced or adopted by reference in this chapter are
also referenced or adopted by reference as if they had been in existence at the
time this chapter was adopted.
(Ord. 2011-246, passed 9-29-2011)
§ 70.04 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate or otherwise operate in any
manner which creates or causes unnecessary engine noise or backfire, tires
squealing, skidding, sliding or swaying, the driving not constituting careless
or reckless driving under the laws of the state.
(Ord. 2011-246, passed 9-29-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 PROHIBITED DRIVING.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a motor vehicle and/or
trailer upon a public sidewalk and/or trail designated for pedestrian traffic
within the city, except for when necessary to enter or exit an alley way or
driveway where access is provided or when necessary for clearing snow off of
the sidewalk and/or trail.
(Ord. 2009-233, passed 11-12-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 EXCESSIVE OR UNUSUAL NOISE.
   No person shall operate either a motor vehicle or combination of vehicles of
any type subject to registration pursuant to M.S. Ch. 168, as it may be amended
from time to time, at any time or under condition of grade, load, acceleration
or deceleration in such a manner as to cause the exhaust to emit excessive or
unusual noise or to produce a sharp popping or crackling sound.
(Ord. 2011-246, passed 9-29-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Every person who violates this chapter when he or she performs an act
thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or fails to act when the failure is
thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   For an initial violation, he or she shall be punished as for a petty
misdemeanor, except where a violation is committed in a manner or under
circumstances so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or
property, when he or she shall be punished for a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Upon a second or subsequent violation within a 12-month period, he or
she shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
   (D)   As to any violation or provision adopted by reference, he or she shall
be punished as specified herein, so adopted.
(Ord. 2009-233, passed 11-12-2009; Am. Ord. 2011-246, passed 9-29-2011)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   On-street parking
   
71.03   Snow emergencies
   
71.04   Prohibited parking
   
71.05   Towing procedures
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or has a right to
immediate possession thereof under a sale or lease-purchasing agreement.
   PARKING. To stop or leave standing, or cause, allow or permit to be parked,
stopped or left standing, whether knowingly or unknowingly, any such vehicle
upon any city street.
   PARKING LOT. A parcel of land owned, leased or controlled by the city for
the primary purpose of providing space for vehicular parking.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any self-propelled motor vehicle licensed for on-
street use, which may include but not limited to: all classes of RVs, motor
homes, trucks with slide-in campers, trucks with chassis-mounted campers, all-
terrain vehicles, motorized carts, golf carts, snowmobiles, motorcycles,
bicycles, and converted buses that provide temporary human living quarters, or
similar recreational/seasonal use vehicles.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (TRAILER). Any detachable vehicle or device,
licensed for on-street use, designed for carrying property on its own
structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle which may include but not
limited to: tent trailers, pop-up/camper trailers, travel trailers, fifth wheel
travel trailers, motorcycle trailers, bicycle trailers, boat/watercraft
trailers, snowmobile trailers, all-terrain vehicle trailers, fish house
trailers, or other similar trailers. Any recreation stored and/or parked on a
trailer is considered one recreational vehicle.
   SNOW EMERGENCY. Any condition upon any public street, including the presence
of snow, freezing rain, sleet, ice or other phenomenon, which condition creates
or is likely to create any hazardous road condition or impedes or is likely to
impede the free movement of traffic, when such conditions have been declared by
the Public Works Director or in his/her designee.
   STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of any way or place when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for
purposes of vehicular traffic.
   TRAILER. Any detachable motor-less vehicle equipped with one or more wheels
and used for carrying property on its own structure, which may include but not
limited to: utility trailers, contractor trailers, semi-trailers, commercial
trailers, open/flatbed trailers, enclosed/cube trailers, box trailers, car
trailers, animal trailers, or other similar trailers, but not including
recreational vehicle trailers.
      TRAILER (SMALL). Any trailer (as defined above) measuring less than eight
(8) feet in overall height and less than 22 feet in overall length, measured
from the hitch to the rear tail lights.
      TRAILER (LARGE). Any trailer (as defined above) measuring eight (8) feet
or greater in overall height, and/or 22 feet or greater in length overall.
   TRUCK. A powerful motor-driven vehicle that consists of a towing engine used
for carrying loads/freight and/or drawing/pulling trailers and classified by
the Minnesota Department of Transportation as Medium Duty (MNDOT Class 3 -
Class 6) or Heavy Duty (MNDOT Class 7 - Class 8).
      TRUCK (LARGE). Any heavy duty truck and/or trailer combination classified
as MNDOT Class 7 - Class 8 (26,001 pounds and over Gross Vehicle Weight - 6 or
more tires)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices designed to be
moved by human power.
(Ord. 2014-257, passed 4-24-2014)
§ 71.02 ON-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Duration limits. For public safety purposes, the City Council finds
that it is necessary to restrict parking of any vehicle, including trucks,
recreational vehicles, and/or trailers as follows:
      (1)   Two-day maximum. No person may leave or park a vehicle on or within
the limits of any city street or right-of-way for a continuous period in excess
of 48 hours. For the purpose of enforcing this section, any vehicle moved less
than one block shall be deemed to have remained stationary.
      (2)   Large trucks and trailers. No person shall leave or park a large
truck and/or a large trailer upon any residential street or alley way or within
the right-of-way for a continuous period in excess of eight hours.
   (B)   Tampering with police enforcement. It is unlawful for any person to
remove, erase or otherwise obliterate any mark or sign placed upon a tire or
other part of a vehicle by a police officer for the purpose of measuring the
length of time such vehicle has been parked.
   (C)   Special parking/use permit.
      (1)   Vehicles and trailers. In the event that an increased on-street
parking duration is desired by the owner of a vehicle, truck, recreational
vehicle, and/or trailer, a special on-street parking permit may be obtained by
the Police Chief, or his/her designee, provided the expanded duration is
clearly defined and based on unique conditions not related to the general
storage of the vehicle and/or trailer.
      (2)   Limited temporary storage. A special on-street parking permit may
be issued by the Police Chief or his/her designee, for limited temporary uses,
including but not limited to construction and landscaping stock piles, portable
storage containers, roll-off dumpsters, and the like. Said on-street temporary
uses:
         (a)   May be allowed for a limited period of time not to exceed 48
consecutive hours; and
         (b)   Shall be located along the street curb edge and adjacent to the
related residence or businesses; and
         (c)   Shall not exceed a road surface area of 8 ft. x 30 ft. (240 sq.
ft.); and
         (d)   Shall be surrounded by approved traffic safety cones and/or
barricades equipped with reflective material and/or flashing lights per city/
MNDOT specifications.
   (D)   Location.
      (1)   All vehicles, trucks, recreational vehicles, and/or trailers parked
on any residential street must be parked in its entirety adjacent to the
residence owned or occupied by the person owning or operating said vehicle and/
or trailer.
      (2)   Large trucks and/or class II trailers may be parked for up to 3%
days (84 hours) on designated non-residential streets such as:
         (a)   5th Avenue NW, from Railway Street to Central Street West;
         (b)   Industrial Park Drive SE;
         (c)   Delaware Street SE, east of 1st Avenue SE;
         (d)   Florida Street SE, east of 1st Avenue SE;
         (e)   Industrial Drive SE;
         (f)   1st Avenue SE, south of Delaware Street SE; Commerce Drive SE;
and
         (g)   Other designated locations as determined by the City
Administrator and Police Chief.
      (3)   Any vehicle, truck, recreational vehicle, and/or trailer parked on-
street, shall not block access to a driveway or a mailbox.
   (E)   Parking for the purpose of advertising or selling merchandise. It is
unlawful for any person to park a vehicle or trailer on any street for the
purpose of: (1) selling a vehicle or trailer; (2) advertising for sale or
selling merchandise thereon or therein; or (3) advertising any merchandise for
sale or a forthcoming event. Exception: Said vehicles and trailers may be
parked adjacent to the property owned or occupied by the person owning or
operating said vehicle and/or trailer.
   (F)   On-street vehicle repair. It is unlawful for any person to service,
repair, assemble or dismantle any vehicle or trailer parked upon a street, or
attempt to do so, except to service such vehicle with gasoline or oil or to
provide emergency repairs thereon, but in no event for more than 24 hours.
(Ord. 2014-257, passed 4-24-2014)
§ 71.03 SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Snow emergency. During a snow emergency, it is unlawful for any
person, as a driver or operator of a vehicle, or as the registered owner of
such vehicle, to park, stop or leave standing, or cause, allow or permit to be
parked, stopped or left standing, whether knowingly or unknowingly, any such
vehicle upon any city street until the street is plowed curb to curb.
   (B)   Exemption. On a case-by-case basis and after receiving a prior request
from an individual, the City Administrator, Police Chief, or his/her designee,
may exempt an individual from the restrictions provided in this section when
requested for a special event, holiday, or a unique circumstance of limited
duration. Exemptions from the section will not be granted when it is already
snowing or when the National Weather Service has forecasted a snow accumulation
of two or more inches for the city.
(Ord. 2014-257, passed 4-24-2014)
§ 71.04 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   Parking in posted areas.
      (1)   Parking any vehicle, truck, recreational vehicle, and/or trailer
within a posted area is prohibited.
      (2)   Posting which prohibits parking shall be accompanied by placing
appropriate signs in the area where the parking is prohibited.
   (B)   Authority to prohibit parking.
      (1)   The City Administrator, Police Chief, or his/her designee, is
authorized to immediately prohibit parking of any kind of vehicle upon any city
street or within any city right-of-way for public safety reasons or to assist
with a public improvement project and for such duration as necessary up to a
maximum of 30 days. In these situations, in order to adequately inform the
public that parking is prohibited or restricted, the city shall properly post
"No Parking" signs and/or place city personnel in appropriate locations.
      (2)   The City Administrator, Police Chief, or his/her designee, is
authorized to immediately prohibit parking of any kind of vehicle upon any city
parking lot for public safety reasons and for such duration as necessary up to
a maximum of 30 days. In these situations, in order to adequately inform the
public that parking is prohibited or restricted, the city shall property post
"No Parking" signs in appropriate locations.
      (3)   Time extension. The City Administrator, Police Chief, or his/her
designee, in his/her discretion, may extend the parking restrictions imposed by
the city in the above paragraphs beyond 30 days.
   (C)   Designation of prohibited parking areas.
      (1)   The City Administrator, Police Chief, or his/her designee, shall
designate streets and parking lots within the city which are subject to parking
prohibitions or restrictions and the type of vehicles restricted or prohibited.
Upon making the designation, appropriate signs and markings shall be so placed
on the streets or lots specifying the nature of the limitations.
      (2)   Parking a vehicle on any street or parking lot within the city
during the periods when a restriction or prohibition exists, or in violation of
a posted sign or marking pursuant hereto is prohibited.
   (D)   Exemption. The City Administrator, Police Chief, or his/her designee,
may authorize parking permits to a property owner to allow a motor vehicle to
be exempt from the daily parking restrictions as may be imposed hereby. The
City Administrator, Police Chief, or his/her designee, shall designate the area
for parking, establish an application, fees, method of allotment, and
distribution of the parking permits.
(Ord. 2014-257, passed 4-24-2014)
§ 71.05 TOWING PROCEDURES.
   Authority to tow. The City Administrator, Police Chief, and his/her
designee, is hereby authorized and empowered to have removed any vehicle on or
stalled on any street or alley in violation of this chapter and in compliance
with M.S. § 168B.035.
(Ord. 2014-257, passed 4-24-2014)
CHAPTER 72: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Unlawful operations
   
72.03   Operation upon streets or highways
   
72.04   Applicability
   
72.05   Locking ignition; removing key
   
72.06   Emergency situations
   
72.07   Enforcement; disregard of official signal
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV. Trail or “dirt” bikes, three-wheelers, four-
wheelers or “quads” and similar devices other than snowmobiles used at least
partially for travel all natural terrain, but not “special mobile equipment,”
defined in M.S. § 168.011(22), as it may be amended from time to time, which is
hereby incorporated herein by reference.
   OWNER.  A person, other than a lien holder having the property on or title
to snowmobile or ATV entitled to the use or possession
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile or ATV.
   OPERATOR.  Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile or ATV.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain, steered by skis or runners.
(Ord. 99-109, passed 12-16-1999)
§ 72.02 UNLAWFUL OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Except as specifically permitted and authorized, it is unlawful for
any person to operate a snowmobile within the city limits.
      (1)   On the whole portion or any right of way of State Highway 19, and
the whole portion of Main Street (CR 33), except that portion that will be
designated or posted for outgoing or incoming travel to and from the place of
residency; (Traveling across these two routes will be allowed only to cross for
access in and out to another route or your place of residency.)
      (2)   On the portion of any right of way of any public highway, street,
road, trail or alley used for motor vehicle travel, except the most right-hand
lane which is used for vehicle traffic in the same direction, other than on
freeways, interstate trunk, county state-aid or county highways; (Snowmobiles
and ATVs may also be operated, upon the ditch bottom or outside of trunk,
county state-aid and county roads where the highways are so configured within
the corporate limits.)
      (3)   On any parks or other public grounds owned by the city with in the
territorial limits of the city, except as may be specifically designated or
permitted by provisions of the city;
      (4)   On a public sidewalk provided for pedestrian travel;
      (5)   On boulevards within any public right-of-way;
      (6)   On private property of another without specific permission of the
owner or person in control of the property; and/or
      (7)   If necessary certain specific routes will be designated by the City
Council and signs will be posted.
   (B)   No person under 14 years of age shall operate on streets or the
roadway surface of highways or make a direct crossing of a trunk, county state-
aid, county highway or city street as the operator of a snowmobile or ATV. A
person 14 years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age, may operate a
snowmobile or ATV on streets, alleys and highways as permitted under this
chapter and make direct crossing on streets and highways only if he or she has
in his or her immediate possession a valid snowmobile or ATV safety certificate
issued by the Commissioner, as provided by M.S. § 84.872, as it may be amended
from time to time. It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile or ATV to be
operated contrary to the provisions of this section.
   (C)   It is unlawful for anyone to operate a snowmobile or ATV within the
city limits if:
      (1)   While under the influence of alcohol or drugs, as defined in M.S. §
169.121, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   At a rate of speed not to exceed 15 miles per hour or less if
surrounding circumstances so ascertain;
      (3)   At any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner or
needlessly in disregard of the rights or safety of others, or in a manner so as
to endanger or be likely to endanger or cause injury or damage to any person or
property;
      (4)   In the city between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., except it
shall be lawful to operate a snowmobile or ATV at not more than 15 miles per
hour leaving or returning to the residence of the operator by the most direct
route to and from their residence; and
      (5)   It is necessary for any person to tow another person on a
snowmobile or ATV on a public street, it shall be towed by a rigid bar attached
to the rear of the snowmobile or ATV.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile or ATV with in
the city unless it is equipped with the following:
      (1)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation; (No
person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass, straight pipe or similar device on
a snowmobile or ATV.)
      (2)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile or ATV under any condition of operation;
      (3)   A safety or so called “deadman” throttle in operating condition; (A
safety or “deadman” throttle is a device which when pressure is removed from
the accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to stop momentum.)
      (4)   When operating between the hours of sunset and sunrise or at any
time of reduced visibility, at least one clear light attached to the front,
with sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance of at
least 100 feet ahead under normal atmospheric conditions; and (Head lights must
be so aimed as not to blind any oncoming snowmobile or ATV. It shall also be
equipped with at least one red tail light plainly visible front a distance of
500 feet to the rear during hours of darkness under normal atmospheric
conditions.)
      (5)   Reflective material at least 16 square inches on each side, forward
of the handlebars or steering device of a snowmobile or ATV and at the highest
practicable point of any towed object, as to reflect light at a 90 degree
angle.
   (E)   It is unlawful to intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any
animal, wild or domestic, with a snowmobile or ATV.
(Ord. 99-109, passed 12-16-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 OPERATION UPON STREETS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   A snowmobile or ATV may take a direct crossing of a street or highway,
except an interstate highway or freeway, provided:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The snowmobile or ATV is brought to a complete stop before crossing
the shoulder or main traveled area;
      (3)   The driver yields the right of way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided street or highway, the crossing is to be made
only at an intersection of such a street or highway with another public street
highway; and
      (5)   If the crossing is made between the hours of sunset to sunrise or
in conditions of reduced visibility, only if both front and rear lights are on.
   (B)   No snowmobile or ATV shall enter any intersection without yielding the
right-of-way to any vehicle or pedestrian at the intersection, or so close to
the intersection as to constitute all immediate hazard.
(Ord. 99-109, passed 12-16-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 APPLICABILITY.
   The city's traffic ordinances shall also apply to the operation of
snowmobiles and ATVs upon streets and highways.
(Ord. 99-109, passed 12-16-1999)
§ 72.05 LOCKING IGNITION; REMOVING KEY.
   Every person leaving a snowmobile or ATV on a public place shall lock the
ignition by removing the key and taking the key with him or her.
(Ord. 99-109, passed 12-16-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 EMERGENCY SITUATIONS.
   Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this chapter, a snowmobile or ATV may be
operated on a public thoroughfare in an emergency during the period of time
when, and at locations where, snow upon the roadways renders travel by an
automobile impossible.
(Ord. 99-109, passed 12-16-1999)
§ 72.07 ENFORCEMENT; DISREGARD OF OFFICIAL SIGNAL.
   It is unlawful for a snowmobile or ATV operator, having received a visual
signal or audible signal from any law enforcement officer to come to a stop, to
operate a snowmobile or ATV in willful or wanton disregard of the signal, to
interfere with or endanger the law enforcement officer or any other person or
vehicle, or to increase his or her speed or attempt to flee or elude the
officer.
(Ord. 99-109, passed 12-16-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Permit required
   
73.03   Age of operator
   
73.04   Occupants
   
73.05   Designated roadways and intersections
   
73.06   Times of operation
   
73.07   Application of traffic laws
   
73.08   Speed limit
   
73.09   Safety equipment
   
73.10   Operation
   
73.11   Operation on sidewalks and trails
   
73.12   Suspension or revocation of a permit
   
73.13   No assumption of liability
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTORIZED GOLF CART. An electric or gas-powered passenger conveyance vehicle
commonly recognized as a golf cart, with four wheels and used primarily for
light terrain slow moving operation. Generally golf carts have a small wheel
base, are not completely enclosed, seat two to four people, weigh from 500 to
2,000 pounds, and have a top speed of 20 to 25 miles per hour.
   SPECIAL EVENT. A city approved interim community or private assembly.
(Ord. 2018-285, passed 3-29-2018)
§ 73.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motorized golf cart on streets
within the city without first obtaining a permit as provided herein. Persons
who obtain a permit as required below are authorized to operate a motorized
golf cart on designated roadways or portions thereof under the jurisdiction of
the city. With the exception of motorized golf carts that are being operated in
connection with a special event, every motorized golf cart operator must have
proof of insurance in possession while operating the motorized golf cart on
designated streets, and shall produce such proof of insurance on demand of a
police officer as specified in M.S. § 169.791.
   (A)   Operator permits. All persons operating motorized golf carts that are
not being operated in connection with a special event must obtain an operator
permit from the city.
      (1)   Application. The application shall be made on a form supplied by
the city and shall contain the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The make, model name, year, and serial number of the motorized
golf cart;
         (c)   The applicant's driver's license number or learner's permit;
         (d)   Proof of insurance complying with M.S. § 65B.48;
         (e)   Payment of permit fee. The amount of the fee shall be listed on
the city's fee schedule; and
         (f)   Such other information as the city may require.
      (2)   Term of permit. Operator permits shall be granted for a period of
three years and shall expire on December 31 of the third year.
      (3)   Operator permit conditions. No operator permit shall be granted or
renewed unless the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The city is in receipt of a complete application and permit fee
as provided by this chapter;
         (b)   The applicant is at least 15 years old and provides a learner's
permit or valid driver's license;
         (c)   The applicant provides proof of insurance in compliance with
M.S. § 65B.48; and
         (d)   The motorized golf cart is in good working condition and safe
for the transportation of passengers.
      (4)   Operator permit display. All operator permits shall be issued for a
specific motorized golf cart. A current city-issued operator permit tag/sticker
shall be plainly visible from the front and/or sides of the motorized golf cart
as determined by the Police Chief or his/her designee.
   (B)   Special event permits. Operators of motorized golf carts in connection
with a special event are not required to obtain individual operator permits so
long as a special event permit is obtained from the city by the organizer of
the event. The special event permit will include all motorized golf carts in
connection with the event.
      (1)   Application. Every application for a special event permit under
this chapter shall be made on a form supplied by the city and shall contain the
following:
         (a)   The name and address of the organizer of the event;
         (b)   A description of the event, including how and where the
motorized golf carts will be utilized;
         (c)   The number of motorized golf carts to be used in the event;
         (d)   The make, model name, year, and serial number of the motorized
golf carts;
         (e)   Proof of insurance in a form and amount acceptable to the city
and complying with M.S. § 65B.48;
         (f)   Payment of a special event permit fee. The amount of the fee
shall be listed on the city's fee schedule; and
         (g)   Such other information as the city may require.
      (2)   Term of permit. Special event permits shall be granted for the
length of the event and shall expire upon the conclusion of the event.
      (3)   Conditions of permit. No special event permit shall be granted
unless the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The city is in receipt of a complete application and permit fee
as provided by this chapter; and
         (b)   The organizer must provide proof of insurance in a form and
amount acceptable to the city.
(Ord. 2018-285, passed 3-29-2018; Am. Ord. 2019-296, passed 5-30-2019)
§ 73.03 AGE OF OPERATOR.
   Persons operating motorized golf carts shall be at least 16 years old with a
valid driver's license to operate a motorized golf cart alone. Persons
operating motorized golf carts that are at least 15 years old may operate a
motorized golf cart with a valid learner's permit if a supervising adult, at
least 18 years old, is riding along.
(Ord. 2018-285, passed 3-29-2018)
§ 73.04 OCCUPANTS.
   The number of occupants in the motorized golf cart shall not exceed the
design occupant load. Each occupant must be seated in a seat designed for
occupants.
(Ord. 2018-285, passed 3-29-2018)
§ 73.05 DESIGNATED ROADWAYS AND INTERSECTIONS.
   Motorized golf carts may be operated within the city except for on state
trunk highways unless the state trunk highway is under the city's jurisdiction
through the issuance of a permit or approval to the city from the State
Department of Transportation. The operator of any motorized golf cart may make
a direct crossing of any intersecting roadways. Operators must exercise all due
care to avoid travel on roadways with a high frequency of automobile usage.
(Ord. 2018-285, passed 3-29-2018)
§ 73.06 TIMES OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Motorized golf carts may only be operated on designated roadways from
sunrise to sunset. They shall not be operated in inclement weather or when
visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog, or other conditions, or at any
time when there is insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on
the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   (B)   Exemption. Motorized golf carts equipped with headlights, taillights,
and brake lights may be allowed.
(Ord. 2018-285, passed 3-29-2018)
§ 73.07 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Persons operating motorized golf carts on designated roadways have all the
rights and duties applicable to drivers of any other motor vehicle under the
provisions of any ordinance of the city and M.S. Ch. 169, except when these
provisions cannot reasonably be applied to motorized golf carts and except that
provisions of M.S. Ch. 171 are not applicable to persons operating motorized
golf carts under permit on designated roadways. Except for M.S. § 169.70, the
provisions of M.S. Ch. 169 relating to equipment on vehicles are not applicable
to motorized golf carts operating under permit on designated roadways.
(Ord. 2018-285, passed 3-29-2018)
§ 73.08 SPEED LIMIT.
   Motorized golf carts shall not exceed a speed greater than 15 miles per hour
on designed roadways located within the city.
(Ord. 2018-285, passed 3-29-2018)
§ 73.09 SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
   Motorized golf carts shall:
   (A)   Display the slow moving vehicle emblem provided in M.S. § 169.522 when
operated on designated roadways; and
   (B)   Be equipped with a rearview mirror capable of viewing at least 200
feet behind the cart.
(Ord. 2018-285, passed 3-29-2018)
§ 73.10 OPERATION.
   Motorized golf carts shall be operated at all times as close to the right-
hand curb or road edge as possible, except when the driver is making a left-
hand turn.
(Ord. 2018-285, passed 3-29-2018)
§ 73.11 OPERATION ON SIDEWALKS AND TRAILS.
   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart on a public sidewalk or trail
unless otherwise authorized by the city.
(Ord. 2018-285, passed 3-29-2018)
§ 73.12 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF A PERMIT.
   The Police Chief may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding that the permit holder has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Ch. 169, or if there is evidence that the operator cannot
safely operate the motorized golf cart on designated roadways. A suspension or
revocation may be reviewed by appeal to the City Council.
(Ord. 2018-285, passed 3-29-2018)
§ 73.13 NO ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as an assumption of liability by
the city for injuries to persons or property which may result from the
operation of any motorized golf cart by a permit holder or the failure by the
Police Chief or City Council to suspend or revoke a permit.
(Ord. 2018-285, passed 3-29-2018)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the revocation or suspension of the permit, any person
violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2018-285, passed 3-29-2018)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
         
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
93.   FIREWORKS
         
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
95.   MAILBOXES
         
96.   USE OF SELF-PROPELLED ROLLER DEVICES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Prohibited types of animals
   
90.02   Dangerous dog
Specific Dog Regulations
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   License required; application
   
90.17   Tags
   
90.18   Kennels
   
90.19   Running at large
   
90.20   Nuisances
   
90.21   Dogs in heat
   
90.22   Control of feces
   
90.23   Impoundment procedures; release
   
90.24   Rabies vaccination
   
90.25   Quarantine for biting animals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 PROHIBITED TYPES OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Prohibited animals. No person shall keep, maintain or harbor within
the city any of the following animals:
      (1)   Any animal or species prohibited by state or federal law;
      (2)   Any non-domesticated animal or species, including but not limited
to the following:
         (a)   Any skunk, whether captured in the wild, domestically raised,
de-scented or not de- scented, vaccinated against rabies or not vaccinated
against rabies;
         (b)   Any large cat of the family Felidae such as lions, tigers,
jaguars, leopards, cougars and ocelot, except commonly accepted domesticated
house cats;
         (c)   Any member of the family Canidae, such as wolves, foxes,
coyotes, dingoes and jackals, except domesticated dogs;
         (d)   Any crossbreed such as the crossbreeds between dogs and coyotes
or dogs and wolves, but does not include crossbreed domesticated animals;
         (e)   Any poisonous pit viper such as rattlesnake, coral snake, water
moccasin or cobra;
         (f)   Any raccoon;
         (g)   Any ferret; and
         (h)   Any other animal which is not listed explicitly above, but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this subchapter, including bears and
badgers.
      (3)   Any poultry, including but not limited to, chickens, ducks, geese
and turkeys; or
      (4)   Any hoofed animal, including but not limited to, sheep, pigs,
goats, cattle, horses, camels, llama, alpaca, deer, moose, caribou and bison.
   (B)   Keeping of honeybees. No person shall keep, maintain or allowed to be
kept in any hive or other facility for the housing of honeybees without a
beekeeping license. Beekeeping licenses shall be regulated by city policy and
best practices.
   (C)   Animals in transit. Prohibited animals may be temporarily allowed
within the city for a maximum of 72 hours while in route to another
destination. If such animals in transit need to spend more than 72 hours within
the city, the person responsible for the animals may seek a permit from the
city for an extended stay.
   (D)   Animals associated with special events. Prohibited animals may be
temporarily allowed within the city if such animals are part of a show,
entertainment, or similar event permitted under this code. Such animals may be
allowed within the city from one day before the event to one day after the
event.
   (E)   Nonconforming animals. Any animals prohibited by divisions (A) and (B)
above which have been regularly housed or kept within the city at the time this
section is adopted, may be continued according to the following regulations:
      (1)   Any nonconforming animal that dies may be replaced with a similar
animal, if replaced within 180 days. If a nonconforming animal is not replaced
within 180 days, all future animals on the property must be conforming. Any
nonconforming animal that is removed from the property for a period of more
than 180 days may not be replaced, and all future animals on the property must
be conforming; and
      (2)   The expansion or addition of more nonconforming animals to the
property is prohibited.
(Ord. 87, passed 4-16-1992; Am. Ord. 2010-238, passed 11-8-2010; Am. Ord. 2017-
281, passed 11-9-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog which has:
         (a)   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private
property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the streets,
sidewalks or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack; or
         (c)   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or otherwise
threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   DANGEROUS DOG. A dog which has:
         (a)   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a
person on public or private property;
         (b)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the
owners property;
         (c)   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal;
         (d)   Bitten one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (e)   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner has
actual or constructive notice of the same, aggressively bites, attacks or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals or otherwise engages in
behavior described in POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
      (3)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely locked
pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and providing
protection for the animal from the elements. A proper enclosure does not
include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that
would allow the animal to exit of its own volition or any house or structure in
which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only barriers
which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow the egress
of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or kennel shall
meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet;
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be one and one-fourth inch or larger steel pipe
buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided,
the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
      (4)   UNPROVOKED. The animal has not been subjected to an act that an
adult could reasonably expect may cause the animal to bite or attack.
      (5)   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. A licensed peace officer employed by the
City of Lonsdale.
      (6)   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, or department
possessing, harboring, keeping, having an interest in, or having care, custody,
or control of a dog.
   (B)   Designation as potentially dangerous dog. An Animal Control Officer
shall designate a dog as a dangerous or potentially dangerous upon receiving
evidence that the dog engaged in one or more of the behaviors described in the
definitions of POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG and DANGEROUS DOG.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   An animal may not be designated dangerous or potentially dangerous
if the threat, injury, or damage was sustained by a person:
         (a)   Who was committing, at the time, a willful trespass or other
tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the animal;
         (b)   Who was provoking, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal
or who can be shown to have repeatedly, in the past, provoked, tormented,
abused, or assaulted the animal; or
         (c)   Who was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      (2)   Law enforcement; exemption. The provisions of this section do not
apply to dangerous dogs used by law enforcement officials for police work.
   (D)   Appeal of designation as dangerous. Any owner may appeal a designation
of an animal as dangerous, and if applicable, prior potentially dangerous
animal designations for the animal.
      (1)   A request for an appeal hearing must be made in writing delivered
to the Chief of Police within 14 days of the date of service of the notice
designating the dog as potentially or dangerous. If no appeal is filed within
the specified time, the designation issued by the animal control authority
shall be final.
      (2)   The hearing shall be held within 14 days of the request to
determine the validity of the dangerous dog designation.
      (3)   The hearing officer shall be selected by the Chief of Police to
conduct the hearing.
      (4)   In the event that the dangerous dog declaration is upheld by the
hearing officer, actual expenses of the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000 will
be the responsibility of the dog's owner.
      (5)   The hearing officer shall issue a decision on the matter within ten
days after the hearing. The decision must be delivered to the animal's owner by
hand delivery or registered mail as soon as practical and a copy must be
provided to the animal control authority. If the hearing officer upholds the
designation of an animal as dangerous, the owner must comply with all of the
requirements of this section within 14 days of service of the hearing officers
findings upon the owner.
   (E)   Notice. The officer designating an animal dangerous shall give notice
of this section by delivering or mailing it to the owner of the animal, or by
posting a copy of it at the place where the animal is kept, or by delivering it
to a person residing on the property if possible. The notice must include:
      (1)   A description of the animal; the authority for and purpose of the
dangerous dog designation; the time, place, and circumstances under which the
dog was declared dangerous; and, if the dog has been seized, the telephone
number and contact person where the dog is kept;
      (2)   A statement that the owner of the dog may request a hearing
concerning the dangerous dog designation and, if applicable, prior potentially
dangerous dog designations for the dog, and that failure to do so within 14
days of the date of the notice will terminate the owner's right to a hearing
under this section;
      (3)   A statement that if an appeal request is made within 14 days of the
notice, the owner must immediately comply with the requirements of division (H)
(1) and (3) below, and until such time as the hearing officer issues an
opinion;
      (4)   A statement that if the hearing officer affirms the dangerous dog
designation, the owner will have 14 days from receipt of that decision to
comply with all other requirements of division (F) and (H) below;
      (5)   A form to request a hearing under this subdivision; and
      (6)   A statement that all actual costs of the care, keeping, and
disposition of the animal are the responsibility of the person claiming an
interest in the animal, except to the extent that a court or hearing officer
finds that the seizure or impoundment was not substantially justified by law.
In addition, if the hearing officer upholds the dangerous dog designation, the
owner appealing the designation shall be responsible for the actual expenses of
the hearing up to $1,000.
   (F)   Requirements for dangerous dogs.
      (1)   No person may own a dangerous dog unless the dog is registered as
provided in this section.
      (2)   Registration. The city shall issue a certificate of registration to
the owner of a dangerous dog if the owner presents sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   A proper enclosure exists for the dangerous animal and a posting
on the premises with a clearly visible warning sign that there is a dangerous
dog on the property, including a warning symbol to inform children;
         (b)   A surety bond issued by a surety company authorized to conduct
business in this state in a form acceptable to the animal control authority in
the sum of at least $300,000, payable to any person injured by the dangerous
dog, or a policy of liability insurance issued by an insurance company
authorized to conduct business in this state in the amount of at least
$300,000, insuring the owner for any personal injuries inflicted by the
dangerous dog;
         (c)   The owner has paid the annual fee of not more than $250, in
addition to any regular animal licensing fees, to obtain a certificate of
registration for a dangerous dog under this section;
         (d)   For a dangerous dog, the owner has had microchip identification
implanted in the animal as required under section M.S. § 347.515; and
         (e)   A dangerous dog registered under this section must have a
standardized, easily identifiable tag identifying the dog as dangerous and
containing the uniform dangerous dog symbol, affixed to the dog's collar at all
times.
   (G)   Warning symbol. If the city issues a certificate of registration to
the owner of a dangerous animal pursuant to division (F)(2), it must provide,
for posting on the owner's property, a copy of a warning symbol to inform
children that there is a dangerous animal on the property. The warning symbol
must be the uniform symbol provided by the commissioner of public safety.
   (H)   Obligations of owner of dangerous dog.
      (1)   An owner of a dangerous dog shall keep the dog, while on the
owner's property, in a proper enclosure. If the dog is outside the proper
enclosure, the animal must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or
leash and under the physical restraint of a responsible person. The muzzle must
be made in a manner that will prevent the dog from biting any person or animal
but that will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or
respiration.
      (2)   An owner of a dangerous dog must renew the registration of the
animal annually until the animal is deceased. If the animal is removed from the
jurisdiction, it must be registered as a dangerous dog in its new jurisdiction.
      (3)   An owner of a dangerous dog must notify the animal control
authority in writing of the death of the animal or its transfer to a new
location where the animal will reside within 30 days of the death or transfer,
and must, if requested by the animal control authority, execute an affidavit
under oath setting forth either the circumstances of the animal's death and
disposition or the complete name, address, and telephone number of the person
to whom the animal has been transferred or the address where the animal has
been relocated.
      (4)   An animal control authority shall require a dangerous dog to be
sterilized at the owner's expense. If the owner does not have the animal
sterilized within 30 days, the animal control authority shall seize the animal
and have it sterilized at the owner's expense.
      (5)   A person who owns a dangerous dog and who rents property from
another where the animal will reside must disclose to the property owner prior
to entering the lease agreement and at the time of any lease renewal that the
person owns a dangerous dog that will reside at the property.
      (6)   A person who transfers ownership of a dangerous dog must notify the
new owner that the animal control authority has identified the animal as
dangerous. The current owner must also notify the animal control authority in
writing of the transfer of ownership and provide the animal control authority
with the new owner's name, address, and telephone number.
   (I)   Obligations of owner of potentially dangerous dog. The owner of a
potentially dangerous dog shall:
      (1)   When the animal is off the owner's premises maintain it under
restraint by a responsible person by use of a leash not exceeding six feet in
length at all times;
      (2)   When the animal is on the owner's premises confine it indoors or
within a fenced enclosure sufficient to keep the animal within, or keep the
animal on a leash or chain not exceeding six feet in length;
      (3)   Implant in the dog microchip identification as required under §
347.515.
   (J)   Review of designation. Beginning six months after an animal is
designated potentially dangerous or dangerous, an owner may request annually
that the animal control authority review the designation. The owner must
provide evidence that the animal's behavior has changed due to the animal's
age, neutering, environment, completion of obedience training that includes
modification of aggressive behavior, or other factors. If the animal control
authority finds sufficient evidence that the animal's behavior has changed, the
authority may rescind the dangerous dog designation.
   (K)   Seizure and destruction.
      (1)   The animal control authority shall immediately seize any dangerous
dog if:
         (a)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is
dangerous, the animal is not validly registered or the owner has not secured
the proper liability insurance or surety coverage as required under division
(F) above;
         (b)   The animal is not maintained in the proper enclosure;
         (c)   The animal is outside the proper enclosure and not under
physical restraint of a responsible person;
         (d)   The animal is not sterilized within 30 days; or
         (e)   There are subsequent incidents of behavior described in the
definitions of potentially dangerous or dangerous dog.
      (2)   Reclaimed. A dangerous dog seized under division (K) may be
reclaimed by the owner of the dog upon payment of impounding and boarding fees
and presenting proof to the animal control authority that the requirements of
this section will be met. A dog not reclaimed under this subpart within seven
days may be disposed of in a manner permitted by law and the owner is liable to
the animal control authority for costs incurred in confining and disposing of
the dog.
      (3)   If a person has been convicted of a misdemeanor for violating a
provision of this section and the person is charged with a subsequent violation
relating to the same animal, the animal must be seized by the animal control
authority. If the owner is not convicted and the animal is not reclaimed by the
owner within seven days after the owner has been notified that the animal may
be reclaimed, the animal may be disposed of in a manner permitted by law.
      (4)   A person claiming an interest in a seized dog may prevent
disposition of the animal pending a hearing by posting security in an amount
sufficient to provide for the dog's actual cost of care and keeping. The
security must be posted within seven days of the seizure inclusive of the date
of the seizure.
      (5)   Notwithstanding M.S. §§ 347.51 to 347.55, a dog may be destroyed in
a proper and humane manner by the animal control authority if the dog:
         (a)   Inflicted substantial or great bodily harm on a human on public
or private property without provocation;
         (b)   Inflicted multiple bites on a human on public or private
property without provocation;
         (c)   Bit multiple human victims on public or private property in the
same attack without provocation; or
         (d)   Bit a human on public or private property without provocation in
an attack where more than one dog participated in the attack.
      (6)   Hearing. The animal control authority may not destroy the dog until
the dog owner has had the opportunity for a hearing before an impartial
decision maker. The definitions in division (A) and the exemptions under
division (C) apply to this section.
(Ord. 2015-264, passed 4-30-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
SPECIFIC DOG REGULATIONS
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the City Council for impounding
and caring for all animals found running at large.
   ANIMAL WARDEN. Any person, firm, agency or company hired or appointed by the
city to assist and/or enforce this subchapter.
   ATTACK. Any unprovoked threatening, aggressive behavior of a dog which puts
a reasonable person in fear of immediate bodily harm.
   KENNEL. Any premises where three or more dogs of the same species, over six
months of age are kept, boarded, bred and/or offered for sale.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons or corporation owing, keeping, harboring
or having charge or control of or permitting any dog to remain on or be lodged
or fed within the owner's house, yard or premises for a period of three days or
longer. This term shall not apply to veterinarians or kennel operators
temporarily maintaining on their premises dogs owned by others.
   STRAY. Any unlicensed dog, the owner of which is unknown, which is at large
within the city.
(Ord. 87, passed 4-16-1992)
§ 90.16 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor or keep a dog over
the age of six months unless a current city license for the dog has been
obtained.
   (B)   A dog license shall be issued by the city office upon presentation of
the following:
      (1)   The applicant's information including the dog owner's name,
address, mailing address and telephone number;
      (2)   A description of dog including breed, color, sex and name;
      (3)   A veterinarian's signed certificate, identifying the dog and
attesting that the animal has been vaccinated for rabies within six months of
the date of license application; and
      (4)   Payment upon issuance of license.
   (C)   The fees to be set forth by City Council resolution.
   (D)   A license will be issued for a period of two years. The license will
be due and issued on May 15 each year.
(Ord. 87, passed 4-16-1992)
§ 90.17 TAGS.
   The owner shall cause the tag to be affixed to a permanent metal fastening
to the collar of the dog so licensed in a manner that the tag is constantly
worn by the dog. Duplicate tags shall be issued in the event the original is
lost upon payment of a fee as set by Council. Tags are not transferable from
one dog to another. No person shall counterfeit or alter any dog tag.
(Ord. 87, passed 4-16-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.18 KENNELS.
   (A)   Definition. The keeping of three or more dogs on the same premises,
whether owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose kept, shall
constitute a KENNEL; except that a fresh litter of pups may be kept for a
period of three months before that keeping shall be deemed to be a kennel.
   (B)   Certain kennels are nuisances. Because the keeping of six or more dogs
on the same premises is subject to great abuse, causing discomfort to persons
in the area by way of smell, noise, hazard, and general aesthetic depreciation,
the keeping of six or more dogs on the premises is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and no person shall keep or maintain a kennel with six or more dogs
within the city.
   (C)   Kennel permit. An annual kennel permit is required before three or
more dogs may be kept on the same premises. The permit shall be obtained from
the City Clerk/Administrator. The annual fee for a kennel permit shall be
established by resolution of the City Council. Persons operating or maintaining
a kennel as defined by M.S.§ 347.31, subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to
time, shall obtain a kennel license from the State Board of Animal Health
before being issued a kennel permit by the city.
   (D)   Maintenance of kennels. Kennels shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
manner, all animals shall be treated humanely, and the owners or operators of
all kennels shall follow all of the provisions of Minn. Rules parts 1720.1400
to 1720.1550, as they may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Revocation of kennel permit. A kennel permit may be revoked by the
City Council if a kennel is not kept in a clean and sanitary manner, if the
animals are not treated humanely, if the kennel does not comply with the above
cited rules, or if any other provision of this chapter is violated, including
the prohibition of habitual barking and the requirement to clean up litter.
§ 90.19 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No owner shall permit any dog to run at large at any time.
   (B)   A dog shall not be considered to be running at large whenever the
animal is under the control of any person by means of a leash, chain, cord or
rope of not more than ten feet in length to an extent as not to annoy other
persons or trespass or commit a nuisance upon public or private property.
(Ord. 87, passed 4-16-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.20 NUISANCES.
   (A)   The owner or custodian of any dog shall prevent the dog from
committing any of the following nuisances:
      (1)   Frequenting school grounds and parks;
      (2)   Chasing vehicles;
      (3)   Molesting or annoying any person away from the property of his or
her owner or custodian or to damage, defile or destroy public or private
property.
   (B)   Failure of the owner or custodian to prevent the dog from becoming a
nuisance is in violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor a dog which
habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined as barking for
repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one minute of
interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner's or
caretaker's premises.
(Ord. 87, passed 4-16-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.21 DOGS IN HEAT.
   Every female dog in heat shall be confined by its owner in a building or
secure enclosure in a manner that the female dog cannot come into contact with
another animal, except for planned breeding.
(Ord. 87, passed 4-16-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.22 CONTROL OF FECES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any owner or custodian of a dog to allow the animal
to drop and leave feces on any public or private property within the city.
   (B)   The owner must have in his of her possession and use a device to
remove any and all fecal material and dispose of it in a sanitary manner.
(Ord. 87, passed 4-16-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.23 IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES; RELEASE.
   (A)   Any dog found in the city without a tag or running at large shall be
placed in the city pound. Any dog found in violation of this subchapter may be
impounded. All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with humane
treatment and sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five
regular business days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal as defined under
§
90.02 in which case it shall be kept for seven regular business days or the
times specified in §
90.02, and except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal in which case it
shall be kept for ten regular business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their
owners or keepers as provided by this section. In case the owner or keeper
shall desire to reclaim the animal from the pound, the following shall be
required, unless otherwise provided for in this code or established from time
to time by resolution of the City Council:
      (1)   Payment of the release fee and receipt of a release permit as
established by
Chapter 32 of this code, as that chapter may be amended from time to time.
      (2)    Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day or
any part of day while animal is in the pound; and
      (3)   If a dog is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee as
established by
Chapter 32, as that chapter may be amended from time to time, and valid
certificate of vaccination for rabies and distemper shots is required.
   (B)   A dog shall be released to his or her owners or person previously in
possession of him or her upon a sworn statement of ownership, proof that a
license has been issued for the impounded animal, proof that rabies inoculation
is current, and the payment of impounding fees.
(Ord. 87, passed 4-16-1992)
§ 90.24 RABIES VACCINATION.
   All dogs shall be vaccinate against rakes by a veterinarian duly licensed in
the state. It is the duty of the owner of the animal to keep inoculations
current. Any owner of a dog found not to have current rabies vaccination shall
be in violation of this subchapter and subject to a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 87, passed 4-16-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.25 QUARANTINE FOR BITING ANIMALS.
   All animal bites shall be reported to the police. Any animal that has bitten
a person within the city shall be confined at the owner's home and if current
rabies vaccination exists, it shall be impounded at the owner's expense. Should
a vaccinated animal that is confined at home or impounded show signs of rabies
on the tenth day of quarantine, the quarantine period shall be extended an
additional period of time as determined by the animal control warden or person
making inspection. Any animal kept at home must be checked by a qualified
person before it is released. The city has the right to inspect the animal to
see if the animal is being quarantined. During the quarantine period an animal,
if current rabies vaccination proof exists, that has bitten a person shall be
securely confined within a building so it cannot come in contact with persons
or other animals. The animal may not be removed from the city without
permission of the animal warden. If any appearance of sickness, or if death of
the animal occurs during the quarantine, the owner must notify the Police
Department immediately.
(Ord. 87, passed 4-16-1992)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Policy
   
91.02   Administration
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Public nuisances affecting health
   
91.05   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
91.06   Public nuisances causing blight and the like
   
91.07   Public nuisances pertaining to parking and storage
   
91.08   Open burning
   
91.09   Prohibited materials
   
91.10   Permits
   
91.11   Burning ban or air quality alert
   
91.12   Rules and laws adopted by reference
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 POLICY.
   This chapter shall be construed to secure its expressed intent, to ensure
public health, safety, aesthetics and the general welfare by the elimination of
public nuisance.
(Ord. 2000-112, passed 10-26-2000; Am. Ord. 2005-179, passed 9-29-2005)
§ 91.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Police Department or other designated city official shall have the
duty to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The officer shall inspect
private premises and take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission
and maintenance of public nuisances.
      (1)   Any officer or agent of the city, charged with enforcing these
provisions, is authorized to enter the structure or premises at reasonable
times, subject to constitutional restrictions upon unreasonable searches and
seizures. Any officer, charged with enforcing these provisions, refused entry
is authorized to pursue recourse, as provided by law.
      (2)   The officer shall carry proper identification when performing
duties under these provisions.
      (3)   The officer shall issue all necessary notices and execute all
necessary orders to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to violate any
provision of this chapter or fail to comply with a lawful written order issued
pursuant to this chapter. Each day during which any noncompliance or violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   In addition to the specific remedies provided in this chapter the
city may exercise any other remedy provided by law or equity to enforce this
chapter, abate nuisances and protect the public health, safety and welfare,
including suspension or revocation of any licenses or permits issued by the
city for any operations located on the premises where the violation is
occurring.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever the officer charged with enforcing this chapter
determines that a violation has occurred, or has reason to believe that a
violation has occurred, notice shall be given to the responsible party, in the
manner prescribed herein.
      (2)   The notice prescribed herein shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Include a description of condition or offense;
         (c)   Include a statement of the violation or violations with
reference to the applicable chapter provision;
         (d)   Include a correction order allowing an amount of time, as
prescribed hereby, to conform with this provision;
         (e)   Include notice of right to appeal, pursuant hereto.
      (3)   The notice shall be properly served if a copy thereof is:
         (a)   Delivered personally;
         (b)   Sent by certified mail and addressed to the owner at the last
known address; or
         (c)   If the certified mail and addressed to the owner at the last
know address.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person who has received a notice
pursuant to this section to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease, or otherwise
dispose of the affected property until the notice has been complied with or
until a written compliance agreement with the city has been executed.
      (5)   Buildings that constitute a public nuisance shall be abated in
accordance with M.S. §§ 463.15 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time.
      (6)   Buildings that constitute a public nuisance may be secured in
accordance with M.S. § 463.251, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (7)   In cases of emergency, where delay in abatement required to
complete the notice and procedure requirements set forth in this provision will
permit a continuing nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health, safety or
welfare, the City Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance.
To proceed with summary enforcement, the officer charged with enforcement shall
determine that a public nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in
the city and that delay in abatement of the nuisance exists or is being
maintained on premises in the city and that delay in abatement of the nuisance
will unreasonably endanger public health, safety or welfare. The officer shall
notify in writing the occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the
nuisance, whether public health, safety, or welfare will be unreasonably
endangered by delay in abatement required to complete the procedure set forth
in this provision above, and may order that such nuisance be immediately
terminated or abated. If the nuisance is not immediately terminate or abated,
the City Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance.
      (8)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the city without notice or
other process from immediately abating any condition which poses an imminent
and serious hazard to human life or safety. Further, prior written is not
required for noise violations.
   (D)   (1)   A responsible party who has received notice may be personally
liable for the cost of the city of the abatement, including administrative
costs. As soon as the work has been completed and the cost determined, the City
Clerk/Administrator or other city official shall prepare a bill for the cost
and mail it to the record owner. Thereupon the amount shall be immediately due
and payable at the Office of the City Clerk/Administrator.
      (2)   If the nuisance is a public health or safety hazard on private
property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public sidewalks, the growth of
weeds on private property or outside the traveled portions of streets, or
insect infested or unsound trees, the City Clerk/Administrator shall, on or
before September 1 following the abatement of the nuisance, list the total of
unpaid charges along with all other current services to be assessed under M.S.
§ 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, against each separate lot or
parcel to which the charges are attributable. The City Council may then certify
to the County Auditor the charges for collection along with current taxes for
the following year or in annual installments, not to exceed ten years, as the
Council may determine in each case.
   (E)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who has received a notice or
upon whom a notice has been served for violation or violations of this chapter
may within seven days file an administrative appeal.
      (2)   Any person who has received a notice or upon whom a notice has been
served for violation or violations of this chapter, and who has filed a timely
appeal shall have the right to an administrative hearing, conducted by the City
Council or designee, at which evidence may be presented and witnesses cross-
examined.
      (3)   If, after seven days, no appeal is filed and the nuisance
continues, the person, charged with the violation shall be deemed to have
waived their right to appeal.
      (4)   The final decision of an administrative hearing, whether by the
City Council or by its designee, shall be in writing setting forth the grounds
therefore. The decision may uphold, vacate or modify the original notice. It
shall be served on the responsible party by U.S. Mail. The responsible party
shall comply with the findings within seven days of receipt.
      (5)   Upon failure of any person, firm or corporation to comply with an
order of abatement within seven days from the date of the appellant receives
notification of the decision to abate the nuisance, the officer charged with
enforcing this chapter shall proceed to summary enforcement hereunder.
(Ord. 2000-112, passed 10-26-2000; Am. Ord. 2005-179, passed 9-29-2005)
§ 91.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. A vehicle claimed for tax purposes of at least 10%
business use or, for all other purposes, used more than 50% for non-personal
use.
   CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS. Nails, lumber, screws, metal lathe, insulation,
shingles, paint cans, trim, fixtures, pipes, duct work and windows.
   GARBAGE. Food waste, packaging materials, household waste, garage waste and
yard waste.
   HOUSEHOLD FURNISHINGS. Standard furnishings, sofas, bed frames, cabinets,
paintings, light fixtures and bathroom fixtures.
   INOPERATIVE VEHICLE. Any vehicle that cannot be started and lawfully driven
upon a public street.
   MOBILE HOME and RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLE. Travel trailer, pickup coach,
motor home and camping trailer.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal title
or person having control over the property of another, including control over
rights-of-way, easements, license or lease.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Whoever, by his or her act or failure to perform a legal
duty, does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance,
which is a misdemeanor punishable by law:
      (1)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures
or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any member of the
general public;
      (2)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any
public highway, right-of-way or waters used by the public; or
      (3)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or by this
chapter or by this chapter or by any other ordinance of this city to be a
public nuisance and for which no sentence is specifically provided.
   RANK VEGETATION. Uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of annuals and perennial
plants.
   REFUSE. Ashes, glass, metal scraps, compost waste, yard waste, dead
vegetation, construction waste or chemical waste.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any or all of the following persons; any owner of the
premises whether record, actual or beneficial; any tenant, mortgage in
possession, receiver, executor or trustee; and any other person exercising
apparent control over the property or known to the city to have an interest in
the property.
   WEED.
      (1)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be limited
to: Alum, Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle, Corncockle, Cressleaf
Groundel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French Weed, Hairy Whitetop,
Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horse Nettle, Johnson Grass, Leafy Spurge, Mile-A-
Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial Sowthistle, Poison Hemlock,
Purple Losse-trife, Quackgrass, Russian Knapweed, Russian Thistle, Serrated
Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum, Wild Carrot, Wild Garlic, Wild Mustard, Wild
Onion, Wild Parsnip;
      (2)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more, when not properly
cultivated or attended for two consecutive years;
      (3)   Bushes of the species of tall, common or European barberry; or
      (4)   Any grass or plants other than trees, flowers, shrubbery or
ornamental plants growing to a height of more than eight inches.
(Ord. 2000-112, passed 10-26-2000; Am. Ord. 2005-179, passed 9-29-2005)
§ 91.04 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be a nuisance affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals not under the immediate control, custody and care
of their owner;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried, destroyed or processed for
consumption, accordance with applicable laws and regulations, within 24 hours
of death;
   (E)   Accumulation of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Outdoor accumulation or storage of garbage, trash, refuse, recyclables
except:
      (1)   Putrescible garbage may be stored in containers, which are air and
water tight and so maintained as to prevent the attraction of insects, rodents,
or other vermin or the release of noxious odors;
      (2)   Recyclables in open containers if cleaned so as to prevent the
attraction of insects, rodents, o other vermin;
      (3)   Non-putrescible refuse and trash if stored so as to prevent access
by vermin, dispersal by wind or leaching from rain;
      (4)   All garbage, trash, refuse, and recyclables must be removed at
least weekly.
   (G)   Storage of unwashed or unsanitary recyclable materials, not properly
contained in water-tight plastic or metal containers;
   (H)   Storage of yard waste not contained in water-tight plastic or metal
containers;
   (I)   Accumulation of garbage, trash, yard waste or refuse not stored inside
the dwelling unit, garage or at a point behind the front of the dwelling unit
or garage, except between the hours of 6:00 p.m. the night before collection
and 10:00 p.m. on the designated collection day, during which time all garbage,
trash, yard waste or refuse, properly contained may be deposited at the curb;
   (J)   Pollution of any public well, cistern, stream, lake, canal or other
body of water by sewage, refuse, domestic or industrial waste or other
substances to pose a hazard to health;
   (K)   All noxious weeds and other rank growth of vegetation upon public or
private property. A notice of noncompliance or violation under this provision
shall stay in effect for the entire growing season, meaning that if at any time
after the issuance of the notice or violation and the nuisance reoccurs, the
city shall abate the nuisance without further notice to the property owner;
   (L)   Harboring of rats, mice, snakes, vermin or rank vegetation among items
accumulated on private or public rights-of-way;
   (M)   Maintaining structures or buildings or materials on private or public
property that pose a fire hazard;
   (N)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot or cinders in unreasonable
quantities;
   (O)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (P)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
(Ord. 2000-112, passed 10-26-2000; Am. Ord. 2005-179, passed 9-29-2005)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting peace and safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   Permitting rain water, ice, snow or other precipitous discharge to
flow from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow
across any sidewalk;
   (C)   Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public property;
   (D)   Obstruction to free flow of water in a natural waterway or a public
street drain, gutter or ditch with trash or other materials;
   (E)   Placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public property
of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other materials or substances
potentially injurious to any person, animal, vehicle or other property;
   (F)   All trees, hedges, signs, billboards or other obstructions which
interfere with the free flow of traffic, or that prevent a clear and
unobstructed view of all intersections, signals, traffic and street markings by
motorists, cyclists or pedestrians while upon public roadways, streets, alleys
and/or sidewalks;
   (G)   Depositing of garbage or refuse upon a public right-of-way or upon
adjacent private property;
   (H)   All wires, cables, tree limbs or other obstructions sufficiently close
to a sidewalk, pedestrian mall, street, alley or other public or private space
so as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (I)   Construction or maintaining of any barbed wire fence less than six
feet above the ground and within three feet of any public street, roadway,
alley, sidewalk or other public space;
   (J)   All obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except as provided by state or
local law;
   (K)   All improperly constructed or maintained hanging signs, awnings or
other similar structures, abutting streets and sidewalks that endanger public
safety or that fail to conform to local law;
   (L)   Any use of property abutting a public street, sidewalk, alley or
public space or any use of a public street sidewalk, alley or other public
space that causes large crowds to gather, obstructing traffic or the free use
of the street or sidewalk;
   (M)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as it may
be amended from time to time, which are hereby incorporated into this chapter
by reference; and
      (1)   Permitting the discharge of exhaust from any stationary internal
combustion engine, motor boat, motor vehicle, snowmobile or any recreational
device, except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud
or explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state or local
laws and regulations;
      (2)   Permitting the use of any radio receiving set, musical instrument,
phonograph, paging system or any other mechanical or electronic device that
produces or reproduces sound in a loudly audible manner, so as to disturb the
peace, quiet and comfort of any person;
      (3)   Operation of any device or machine between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. that produces plainly audible sound at the property line of the
source shall be prima facie evidence of violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Participation in a party or gathering of two or more persons, or an
activity that disturbs the peace, quiet or repose of the occupants of adjoining
or nearby properties.
   (N)   All disorderly or visibly intoxicated persons upon private or public
property outside the dwelling or an alternative enclosed building;
   (O)   All illegal drugs;
   (P)   Animals not properly licensed or in the immediate care, custody and
possession of their owner;
   (Q)   Radio aerial or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (R)   All dangerous unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (S)   Any well, hole or similar excavation that is left uncovered or
otherwise maintained as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person
coming upon the premises where it is located; and
   (T)   All other conditions which are likely to cause injury or annoyance to
a person or property.
(Ord. 2000-112, passed 10-26-2000; Am. Ord. 2005-179, passed 9-29-2005)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 PUBLIC NUISANCES CAUSING BLIGHT AND THE LIKE.
   The following are hereby declared a public nuisance causing blight or
unreasonably interfering with the enjoyment of property:
   (A)   Prohibited vehicles.
      (1)   Parking or storing any unlicensed, unregistered or inoperable
vehicle or parts or components thereof on any property, public or private
unless housed within a lawfully erected building; (An inoperable vehicle is one
that cannot be started and lawfully driven upon a public street.)
      (2)   Parking a mobile home or recreational camping vehicle upon public
or private property for human habitation, except in a licensed mobile home
park; and/or
      (3)   Commercial vehicles in excess of 10,001 pounds gross vehicle weight
upon any residential street for a continuous period of more than six hours.
(See City Code §
153.077, Off-Street Parking).
   (B)   Household furnishings and appliances. Storing of household
furnishings, appliances, finishing materials, carpeting, fixtures or parts or
components thereof, upon private or public property for more than 72 hours,
unless housed within a lawfully constructed building;
   (C)   Construction materials, scrap lumber, tools, hardware. Storing of
construction materials, scrap lumber, tools, hardware or parts, or components
thereof, upon private or public property for more than 72 hours, unless housed
within a lawfully constructed building, except that lumber, supplies and
materials engaged for current construction activities, for which a building
permit has been issued, may be stored on the premises until the project is
completed if:
      (1)   All lumber is stacked in piles not more than five feet high,
covered with tarpaulin when not in use and free of rodent or other infestation;
      (2)   All supplies, hardware and tools used for construction are stored
in a neat and orderly fashion; and
      (3)   No construction materials, tools, parts, supplies or equipment are
stored upon any part of the property other than a rear yard.
   (D)   Firewood storage. Firewood that is not stored as follows:
      (1)   Stacked in neat and secure piles of no more than four stacks, each
of which shall be no longer than 20 feet long by five feet high by four feet
wide;
      (2)   Maintained not closer than five feet from the property line;
      (3)   Maintained free of rats or other infestation; and/or
      (4)   Maintained within five feet of any inhabited building.
   (E)   Buildings or structures. Any building or structure other than
accessory buildings on farms if its exterior does not comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   An owner, lessee or occupant of property or a dwelling may not
allow the accumulation of dirt or filth on the exterior premises occupied or
controlled in a manner that could create a health hazard to the dwelling
occupants or the general public. All exterior property and premises shall be
maintained in a clean, safe and sanitary condition.
      (2)   No exterior of any surface shall have deterioration, holes, breaks,
gaps or loose or rotting siding. All exterior surfaces including but not
limited to doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches and trim shall be
maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other than decay
resistant woods shall be protected from the elements and decay by painting or
other protective covering or treatment.
      (3)   Every exterior surface which has had a surface finished shall be
maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No wall or exterior
surface shall have peeling, cracked, chipped or otherwise deteriorated finish
of:
         (a)   Any one wall or flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters and similar
projections on any one side or surface.
      (4)   Every window, exterior light fixture, skylight, door and frame
shall be kept in sound condition, good repair, weather tight and shall be
maintained free from cracks and holes.
      (5)   All cornices, moldings, decorative features, lintels, sills, bay or
dormer windows and similar projections shall be kept in good repair and free
from cracks or defects which make them hazardous or unsightly.
      (6)   All siding and masonry joints as well as those between the building
envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors and skylights shall be maintained
weather resistant and water tight.
      (7)   Roof structures, including but not limited to drains, gutters and
downspouts shall be maintained in good repair. All roof drainage systems shall
be attached securely.
      (8)   Chimney, air vents and other similar projections shall be
structurally sound and in good repair.
      (9)   Retaining walls shall be in good repair.
      (10)   All foundation walls shall be sound as to prevent entry of
rodents.
      (11)   Every exterior deck, stairway, ramp, porch or balcony shall be
structurally sound and neatly maintained.
      (12)   Every exterior walkway, driveway and parking area shall be in good
repair, free of unsightly potholes, cracks and damage to the surfacing
material.
      (13)   Every walkway, driveway and parking area shall be covered by
concrete or bituminous materials or other approved material that shall not
produce excess dust, mud, dirt or unsightly conditions upon the property.
   (F)   Trees constituting nuisance. The following constitute a public
nuisance wherever they may be found in the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch Elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau or
which harbors one or more of the elm bark beetle Scolytus Multistriatus (EICH)
or Hylungopinus Rufides (Marsh);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including branches, stumps,
firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;
      (3)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Oak Wilt fungus Ceratocystis Fagacearum;
      (4)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion of the
designated city officer constitutes a hazard, including but not limited to
logs, branches, stumps, roots, firewood or other oak material which remains
unstripped of its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide;
      (5)   Any other tree with an epidemic disease;
      (6)   Any tree which, because of its height, breadth or location
interferes with pedestrian use of sidewalks, or otherwise obstructs or
interferes with the safe operation of vehicular traffic on public roadways;
and/or
      (7)   Any tree that because of damage by wind, lightning strike, disease
or other source, or that because of weakened root structure or rot poses a
hazard to safety or property shall be a public nuisance under this provision.
(Ord. 2000-112, passed 10-26-2000; Am. Ord. 2005-179, passed 9-29-2005; Am.
Ord. 2017-275, passed 4-13-2017) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 PUBLIC NUISANCES PERTAINING TO PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it: (1) obstructs views on streets and private property; (2)
creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas; (3) prevents the full use of
residential streets for residential parking; (4) introduces commercial
advertising signs into areas where commercial advertising signs are otherwise
prohibited; (5) decreases adjoining landowners' and occupants' enjoyment of
their property and neighborhood; and (6) otherwise adversely affects property
values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of ice fish houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses or other similar non-permanent
structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front-yard area
of residential property unless more than 30 feet back from the front property
line.
      (2)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery, or similar materials, including all
materials used in connection with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or fence.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements:
         (a)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be
parked or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of nonresidential characteristics of
the property. This maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional
guests who do not reside on the property.
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front-yard
area must be on a hard dust free surface per §
153.077.
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim the
property, as their legal residence will be considered residents on the
property.
(Ord. 2005-179, passed 9-29-2005; Am. Ord. 2017-275, passed 4-13-2017) Penalty,
see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Off-Street Parking, see §
153.077
§ 91.08 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL FIRE PIT.  A commercially manufactured appliance equipped with
a lid and a spark arresting screen that must be used in outdoor locations and
constructed of ferrous metal or approved, noncombustible materials. Such
commercial fire pits may be no more than a three foot diameter and must be
located at least ten feet from all cars or occupied structures and ten feet
from combustible walls, decks, roofs, or other combustible materials and
structures.
      FIRE CHIEF, FIRE MARSHAL, and ASSISTANT FIRE MARSHALS. The Fire Chief,
Fire Marshal, and Assistant Fire Marshals of the Fire Department, which
provides fire protection services to the city.
      OPEN BURNING.  The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion
products are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a
stack, duct or chimney, except a “recreational fire” as defined herein. Mobile
cooking devices such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers,
and propane or natural gas devices are not defined as OPEN BURNING.
      RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than
three feet in height, contained within the border of a “recreational fire site”
or “commercial fire pit” using dry, clean wood; producing little detectable
smoke, odor or soot beyond the property line; conducted with an adult tending
the fire at all times; for recreational, ceremonial, food preparation for
social purposes; extinguished completely before quitting the occasion; and
respecting weather conditions, neighbors, burning bans, and air quality so that
nuisance, health or safety hazards will not be created. No more than one
recreational fire is allowed on any property at one time.
      RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a three-foot diameter
circle (measured from the inside of the fire ring or border); completely
surrounded by non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing material, either
of natural rock, cement, brick, tile or blocks or ferrous metal only and which
area is depressed below ground, on the ground, or on a raised bed. Included are
permanent outdoor wood-burning fireplaces. Burning barrels are not a RECREATION
FIRE SITE as defined herein. RECREATIONAL FIRE SITES shall not be located
closer than 25 feet to any structure.
      STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard
or charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as
starter fuels and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean
gas burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an open
burn.
      WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, “presto logs,”
charcoal, cordwood or untreated dimensional lumber. The term does not include
wood that is green with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked, or treated
with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for recreational
fires when cut into three-foot lengths.
   (B)   Purposes allowed for open burning.
      (1)   Open burn permits may be issued only for the following purposes:
         (a)   Elimination of fire of health hazard that cannot be abated by
other practical means.
         (b)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction.
         (c)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights-of-
way where chipping, composting, land spreading or other alternative methods are
not practical.
         (d)   Disposal of diseased trees generated on site, diseased or
infected nursery stock, and diseased beehives.
         (e)   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, non-glued lumber and wood
shakes generated from construction, where recycling, reuse, removal or other
alternative disposal methods are not practical.
      (2)   Fire Training permits can only issued by the Minnesota Department
of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 2005-179, passed 9-29-2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning oils, petro
fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials, or other materials which
produce excessive or noxious smoke such as tires, railroad ties, treated,
painted or glued wood composite shingles, tar paper, insulation, composition
board, sheet rock, wiring, paint or paint fillers.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of hazardous
waste or salvage operations, open burning of solid waste generated from an
industrial or manufacturing process or from a service or commercial
establishment or building material generated from demolition of commercial or
institutional structures.
   (C)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of discarded
material resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation, serving
or consumption of food.
   (D)   No person shall conduct; cause or permit open burning of any leaves or
grass clippings.
(Ord. 2005-179, passed 9-29-2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required for open burning. No person shall start or allow any
open burning on any property in the city without first having obtained an open
burn permit, except that a permit is not required for any fire, which is a
recreational fire as defined in §
91.08.
   (B)   Permit application for open burning; permit fees.
      (1)   Open burning permits shall be obtained by making application on a
form prescribed the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and adopted by the
Fire Department. The permit application shall be presented to the Fire Chief,
Fire Marshal, and Assistant Fire Marshals for reviewing and processing those
applications.
      (2)   An open burning permit shall require the payment of a fee. Permit
fees shall be in the amount established by ordinance, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   (C)   Permit process for open burning. Upon receipt of the completed open
burning permit application and permit fee, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or
Assistant Fire Marshals shall schedule a preliminary site inspection to locate
the proposed burn site, note special conditions, and set dates and time of
permitted burn and review fire safety considerations.
   (D)   Permit holder responsibility.
      (1)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be
responsible for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in
effect. Every open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit holder
or his or her competent representative. The open burning site shall have
available, appropriate communication and fire suppression equipment as set out
in the fire safety plan.
      (2)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the
permit holder or his or her representative leaves the site. No fire may be
allowed to smolder with no person present. It is the responsibility of the
permit holder to have a valid permit, as required by this subchapter, available
for inspection on the site by the Police Department, Fire Department, MPCA
representative or DNR forest officer.
      (3)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance and implementation
of all general conditions, special conditions, and the burn event safety plan
as established in the permit issued. The permit holder shall be responsible for
all costs incurred as a result of the burn, including but not limited to fire
suppression and administrative fees.
   (E)   Revocation of open burning permit. The open burning permit is subject
to revocation at the discretion of DNR forest officer, the Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal, or Assistant Fire Marshals. Reasons for revocation include but are not
limited to a fire hazard existing or developing during the course of the burn,
any of the conditions of the permit being violated during the course of the
burn, pollution or nuisance conditions developing during the course of the
burn, or a fire smoldering with no flame present.
   (F)   Denial of open burning permit. If established criteria for the
issuance of an open burning permit are not met during review of the
application, it is determined that a practical alternative method for disposal
of the material exists, or a pollution or nuisance condition would result, or
if a burn event safety plan cannot be drafted to the satisfaction of the Fire
Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire Marshals, these officers may deny the
application for the open burn permit.
(Ord. 2005-179, passed 9-29-2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.
   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or DNR has
officially declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire conditions or
when the MPCA has declared an Air Quality Alert.
(Ord. 2005-179, passed 9-29-2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 RULES AND LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. §§ 88.16 to 88.22, as these statutes may be amended
from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter as if fully set forth at this point.
(Ord. 2005-179, passed 9-29-2005)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter, including maintaining a nuisance
after being notified in writing by first class mail of a violation of any
provision of this chapter, shall be a misdemeanor and punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2005-179, passed 9-29-2005)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Removal of snow and ice
   
92.02   Construction of sidewalks
Public Rights-of-Way
   
92.15   Findings, purpose, and intent
   
92.16   Election to manage the public rights-of-way
   
92.17   Definitions
   
92.18   Administration
   
92.19   Utility Coordination Committee
   
92.20   Registration and right-of-way occupancy
   
92.21   Registration information
   
92.22   Reporting obligations
   
92.23   Permit requirement
   
92.24   Permit applications
   
92.25   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
92.26   Action on small wireless facility permit applications
   
92.27   Permit fees
   
92.28   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
92.29   Joint applications
   
92.30   Supplementary applications
   
92.31   Other obligations
   
92.32   Denial or revocation of permit
   
92.33   Installation requirements
   
92.34   Inspection
   
92.35   Work done without a permit
   
92.36   Supplementary notification
   
92.37   Revocation of permits
   
92.38   Mapping data
   
92.39   Location and relocation of facilities
   
92.40   Pre-excavation facilities location
   
92.41   Damage to other facilities
   
92.42   Right-of-way vacation
   
92.43   Indemnification and liability
   
92.44   Abandoned and unusable facilities
   
92.45   Appeal
   
92.46   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
   
92.47   Franchises
   
92.48   County or state rights-of-way
Undergrounding of Utilities
   
92.60   Undergrounding
   
92.61   Undergrounding of facilities
   
92.62   Undergrounding of permanent replacement, relocated, or reconstructed
facilities
   
92.63   Exceptions to undergrounding
   
92.64   Developer responsibility
   
92.65   Installation of underground facilities within public rights-of-way
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE.
   (A)   Each owner or occupant of real estate within the city, along or by
which there is built and maintained a public sidewalk, shall remove all snow
and ice from the sidewalks opposite the real estate immediately after each
snowfall.
   (B)   Snow and ice which is cleared from public sidewalks may be placed on
city streets for collection by the city. No person shall place on city streets
snow or ice which has fallen on private walkways, driveways or private parking
lots, without special permission from the city to remove snow and ice from
private property and place same in any street.
   (C)   (1)   Any snow or ice remaining on the public sidewalks within the
city after 12 hours is in violation of this section and may be cleared by the
city maintenance department at the expense of the owner or occupant of adjacent
property at a rate determined by resolution of the City Council.
      (2)   If the cost is not paid within 30 days after billing by the City
Clerk/Administrator, the City Council shall assess and levy and cause to be
collected the amount of the charges as a special assessment and shall be placed
upon the tax roll of the city and collected against the property as other taxes
are collected.
   (D)   (1)   Where permission is granted by the city, the person to whom
permission is granted shall be initially responsible for payment of all direct
or indirect costs of removing the snow and ice from the street at a rate
determined by resolution of the City Council.
      (2)   If the cost is not paid within 30 days after billing by the City
Clerk/Administrator, the City Council shall assess and levy and cause to be
collected the charges as a special assessment and shall be placed upon the tax
roll of the city and collected against the property as other taxes are
collected.
   (E)   (1)   Before granting any permit under any provision of this section
for removing snow or ice from private property, the Council may impose the
rates of permit insurance or bonding conditions thereon, considering the
projected danger to public or private property or to persons, deems proper for
safeguarding persons and property.
      (2)   The insurance or bond shall also protect the city from any suit,
action or cause of action arising by reason of the obstruction.
(Ord. 81, passed 10-27-1988)
§ 92.02 CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The City Council shall have the power and authority to provide for
either the construction or reconstruction and maintenance of suitable sidewalks
as may be deemed necessary by the City Council, at the expense of the property
fronting or abutting on the improvement.
   (B)   All sidewalks that shall be hereafter built or repaired within the
corporate limits of the city shall be constructed or repaired in accordance
with the grade elevation which shall be established by the City Council in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   (1)   All sidewalks that may be hereafter constructed or repaired
along the public streets in the city shall be as follows: along Baldwin Street,
better known as Main Street of which a certain portion or number of blocks is
now designated as a business district; namely, from Railway Street North to
Short Street South.
      (2)   All sidewalks constructed within these shall be eight feet in
width. Along all other streets, except as designated above all sidewalks shall
be not less than five feet in width and not more than six feet in width.
      (3)   All sidewalks and roadways shall be constructed with the latest
approved material and workmanship as follows: three-eighths to three-fourths
inch rock, with at least a 3,000-pound test, possibly more strength on traveled
roadways.
   (D)   The City Clerk/Administrator shall be liable to certify a copy of all
unpaid assessments to the County Auditor every September so the assessment can
be entered by the County Auditor upon the property tax list.
(Ord. 51B, passed 4- -1969)
PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 92.15 FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND INTENT.
   (A)   To provide for the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens, and to
ensure the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-
way, the city strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good repair and
free from unnecessary encumbrances.
   (B)   This subchapter imposes reasonable regulation on the placement and
maintenance of facilities and equipment currently within its rights-of-way or
to be placed therein at some future time. It is intended to complement the
regulatory roles of state and federal agencies. Under this subchapter, persons
excavating and obstructing the rights-of-way will bear financial responsibility
for their work. Finally, this subchapter provides for recovery of out-of-pocket
and projected costs from persons using the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   This subchapter shall be interpreted consistently with M.S. §§ 237.16,
237.162, 237.163, 237.79, 237.81, and 238.086 (the "Act"), and the other laws
governing applicable rights of the city and users of the right-of-way. This
subchapter shall also be interpreted consistent with Minn. Rules parts
7819.0050 to 7819.9950 and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560 where possible. To the extent
any provision of this section cannot be interpreted consistently with the
Minnesota Rules, that interpretation most consistent with the Act and other
applicable statutory and case law is intended. This subchapter shall not be
interpreted to limit the regulatory and police powers of the city to adopt and
enforce general ordinances necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare
of the public.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.16 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative, and common law, the city hereby elects, pursuant to
M.S. § 237.163, subd. 2(b), to manage rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.17 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A facility no longer in service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other
facility that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not abandoned
unless declared so by the right-of-way user.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate, obstruct, or
otherwise place facilities in a right-of-way.
   CITY. The city of Lonsdale, Minnesota. For purposes of this subchapter, CITY
also means the city's elected officials, officers, employees, and agents.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace a small wireless facility on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing
wireless support structure or utility pole that is owned privately, or by the
city or other governmental unit.
   COMMISSION. The State of Minnesota Public Utilities Commission.
   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND. Any of the following forms of security
provided at permittee's option:
      (1)   Individual project bond;
      (2)   Cash deposit;
      (3)   Security of a form listed or approved under M.S. § 15.73, subd. 3;
      (4)   Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (5)   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the city; or
      (6)   A blanket bond for projects within the city, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the city.
   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rules part 7819.1100, means the cost to
achieve a level of restoration, as determined by the city at the time the
permit is issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration shown in plates 1 to
13, set forth in Minn. Rules parts 7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
   DEGRADATION FEE. The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by
the city to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of
the right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation
cost.
   DELAY PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration as established
by permit.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works of the city.
   DIRECTOR. The City Administrator, Public Works Director, or her or his
designee.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that poses a danger to life or health, or of a
significant loss of property; or requires immediate repair or replacement of
facilities in order to restore service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain
facilities in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove, physically disturb, or penetrate
any part of a right-of-way.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this subchapter, must be
obtained before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An EXCAVATION PERMIT
allows the holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such
permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in §
92.27.
   FACILITY or FACILITIES. Any tangible asset in the right-of-way used to
provide utility or telecommunications service.
   FIVE-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next five years.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of such person
or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions
for that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this subchapter.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS. The actual costs the city incurs in managing its rights-
of-way, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way or small wireless
facility permit applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects;
maintaining, supporting, protecting, or moving user facilities during right-of-
way work; determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed after providing notice and the opportunity to correct
the work; and revoking right-of-way or small wireless facility permits.
MANAGEMENT COSTS do not include payment by a telecommunications right-of-way
user for the use of the right-of-way; unreasonable fees of a third-party
contractor used by the city including fees tied to or based on customer counts,
access lines, or revenues generated by the right-of-way or for the city; the
fees and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation M.S. §§ 237.162 or
237.163, or any ordinance enacted under those sections; or the city fees and
costs related to appeals taken pursuant to §
92.45.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder
free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way, or so as to
hinder maintenance of any city asset.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this subchapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a permittee to cover the
costs as provided in §
92.27.
   PATCH or PATCHING. A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in
nature. A PATCH consists of the compaction of the subbase and aggregate base,
and the replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum of two
feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions. A PATCH is
considered full restoration only when the pavement is included in the city's
five-year project plan.
   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-
way and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate, or gravel.
   PERMIT. Has the meaning given RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT in this section.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way has been granted by the city under this subchapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate, or political.
   PROBATION. The status of a person that has not complied with the conditions
of this subchapter.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. One year from the date that a person has been notified
in writing that they have been put on probation.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public
roadway, highway, street, cartway, bicycle lane, or public sidewalk in which
the city has an interest, including other dedicated RIGHTS-OF-WAY for travel
purposes and utility easements of the city. A RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include the
airwaves above a RIGHT-OF-WAY with regard to cellular or other non-wire
telecommunications or broadcast service.
   REGISTRANT. Any person who has or seeks to have its equipment or facilities
located in any right-of-way, or in any way occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy
or use, the right-of-way or place its facilities or equipment in the right-of-
way.
   RESTORATION COST. The amount of money paid to the city by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to plates 1 to 13 of the Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission rules.
   RESTORE or RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. Either the excavation permit, the obstruction permit,
the small cell permit, or any combination thereof depending on the context,
required by this subchapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. 
      (1)   A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by M.S. §
237.162, subd. 4; or
      (2)   A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way that
is used or intended to be used for providing utility service, and who has a
right under law, franchise, or ordinance to use the public right-of-way.
   SERVICE or UTILITY SERVICE. Includes:
      (1)   Those services provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, subds. 4 and 6;
      (2)   Services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including
transporting of voice or data information;
      (3)   Services of a cable communications systems as defined in M.S. Ch.
238;
      (4)   Natural gas or electric energy, or telecommunications services
provided by the city;
      (5)   Services provided by a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Ch. 308A; and
      (6)   Water and sewer, including service laterals, steam, cooling, or
heating services.
   SERVICE LATERAL. An underground facility that is used to transmit,
distribute or furnish gas, electricity, communications, or water from a common
source to an end-use customer. A SERVICE LATERAL is also an underground
facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer's premises.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or could fit within such an enclosure; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
facility provided such equipment is, in aggregate, no more than 28 cubic feet
in volume, not including electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical
cable runs for the connection of power and other services, and any equipment
concealed from public view within or behind an existing structure or
concealment.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate or obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already
been issued.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. A person owning or controlling a
facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the
right-of-way, that is used or is intended to be used for providing wireless
service, or transporting telecommunication or other voice or data information.
For purposes of this subchapter, a cable communication system defined and
regulated under M.S. Ch. 238, and telecommunication activities related to
providing natural gas or electric energy services, a public utility as defined
in M.S. § 216B.02, a municipality, a municipal gas or power agency organized
under M.S. Chs. 453 and 453A, or a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Ch. 308A, are not telecommunications right-of-way users for purposes
of this section except to the extent such entity is offering wireless service.
   TEMPORARY SURFACE.  The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation. It is temporary in nature except when the replacement is of
pavement included in the city's two-year plan, in which case it is considered
full restoration.
   TRENCH. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the pavement.
   TWO-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next two years.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole that is used in whole or in part to facilitate
telecommunications or electric service.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision
of wireless services between user equipment and a wireless service network,
including equipment associated with wireless service, a radio transceiver,
antenna, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and a
small wireless facility, but not including wireless support structures,
wireline backhaul facilities, or cables between utility poles or wireless
support structures, or not otherwise immediately adjacent to and directly
associated with a specific antenna.
   WIRELESS SERVICE. Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of wi-fi, whether at a fixed location or by means
of a mobile device, that is provided using wireless facilities. WIRELESS
SERVICE does not include services regulated under Title VI of the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, including cable service.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure in a right-of-way
designed to support or capable of supporting small wireless facilities, as
reasonably determined by the city.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.18 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Director is the principal city official responsible for the
administration of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits, and the ordinances
related thereto. The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.19 UTILITY COORDINATION COMMITTEE.
   The city may create an advisory Utility Coordination Committee.
Participation on the Committee is voluntary. It will be composed of any
registrants that wish to assist the city in obtaining information and, by
making recommendations regarding use of the right-of-way, to improve the
process of performing construction work therein. The city may determine the
size of such Committee and shall appoint members from a list of registrants
that have expressed a desire to assist the city.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.20 REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Registration. Each person authorized to occupy or use, or seeks to
occupy or use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on
the right-of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance
responsibilities by lease, sublease, or assignment, must register with the
city. Registration will consist of providing application information.
   (B)   Registration prior to work. No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof, in any right-of-way without first being registered with the city.
   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the
provisions of a city ordinance permitting persons to plant or maintain
boulevard plantings or gardens in the area of the right-of-way between their
property and the street curb. Persons planting or maintaining boulevard
plantings or gardens shall not be deemed to use or occupy the right-of-way, and
shall not be required to obtain any permits or satisfy any other requirements
for planting or maintaining such boulevard plantings or gardens under this
subchapter. However, nothing herein relieves a person from complying with the
city's tree ordinances, sight-visibility regulations, and the provisions of
M.S. Ch. 216D, the Gopher One-Call Law.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.21 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. Registration shall be requested on an
application form produced by the city. The information provided to the city at
the time of registration shall include, but not be limited to, the following.
      (1)   Each registrant's name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and email address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      (2)   The name, address and email address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or a
form of self-insurance acceptable to the city;
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
            1.   Use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and permittees; and
            2.   Placement and use of facilities and equipment in the right-of-
way by the registrant, its officers, agents, employees, and permittees,
including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising from
completed operations, damage of underground facilities, and collapse of
property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers' compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the city in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this subchapter.
      (4)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
      (5)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate is
required to be filed under state law as recorded and certified to by the
Secretary of State.
      (6)   A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other authorization or
approval from the applicable state or federal agency to lawfully operate, where
the person is lawfully required to have such authorization or approval from
said Commission or other state or federal agency.
      (7)   Any other information deemed necessary by the City Engineer to
adequately protect the health, safety, and welfare of the city.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the city information as to
changes within 15 days following the date on which the registrant has knowledge
of any change.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.22 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Operations.
      (1)   Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by December
1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan for underground
facilities with the city. Such plan shall be submitted using a format
designated by the city and shall contain the information determined by the city
to be necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the frequency
of excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way.
      (2)   The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
         (a)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of
all projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this subchapter,
a "next-year project"); and
         (b)   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated
beginning and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five years
following the next calendar year (in this subchapter, a "five-year project").
      (3)   The term "project" in this subchapter shall include both next-year
projects and five-year projects.
      (4)   By January 1 of each year, the city will have available for
inspection in the city's office a composite list of all projects of which the
city has been informed of the annual plans. All registrants are responsible for
keeping themselves informed of the current status of this list.
      (5)   Thereafter, by February 1, each registrant may change any project
in its list of next-year projects, and must notify the city and all other
registrants of all such changes in said list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
registrant may at any time join in a next-year project of another registrant
listed by the other registrant.
   (B)   Additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the city if the registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.23 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way, or install or place facilities in
the right-of-way, without first having obtained the appropriate right-of-way
permit from the city to do so.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required by a registrant
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by
placing facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not
required if a person already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same
project.
      (3)   Small wireless facility permit. A small wireless facility permit is
required by a registrant to erect or install a wireless support structure, to
collocate a small wireless facility, or to otherwise install a small wireless
facility in the specified portion or the right-of-way, to the extent specified
therein, provided that such permit shall remain in effect for the length of
time the facility is in use, unless lawfully revoked.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless such person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of-way permit before the expiration
of the initial permit, and a new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules part 7819.1000, subp. 3,
and notwithstanding division (B), the city shall establish and impose a delay
penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction,
patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established from time to
time by City Council resolution.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this section shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.24 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit is made to the city on forms approved by the City
Engineer or the City Engineer's designee. Right-of-way permit applications
shall contain and will be considered complete only upon compliance with the
requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Registration with the city pursuant to this section;
   (B)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project, and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities, and all other information deemed relevant by the City Engineer;
   (C)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs, and other management
costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way,
or any emergency actions taken by the city; and
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable;
   (D)   Payment of disputed amounts due the city by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least 110% of the amount
owing; and
   (E)   Posting an additional or larger construction performance bond for
additional facilities when applicant requests an excavation permit to install
additional facilities and the city deems the existing construction performance
bond inadequate under applicable standards.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.25 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this subchapter, the city shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety, and welfare, or when necessary to protect the
right-of-way and its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with
all requirements of local, state, and federal laws, including, but not limited
to, M.S. §§ 216D.01 through 216D.09 (Gopher One-Call Excavation Notice System)
and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560.
   (C)   Small wireless facility conditions. In addition to division (B), the
erection or installation of a wireless support structure, the collocation of a
small wireless facility, or other installation of a small wireless facility in
the right-of-way, shall be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Color(s) of all small wireless facilities/equipment shall
complement the associated support structure and/or the surrounding area. Said
color(s) shall be selected from a palette of city approved earth tones or
natural colors.
      (2)   Cables/wires associated with small wireless facilities shall be
concealed or enclosed in an equipment box or conduit. Any external cables/wires
hanging off a pole or enclosed in conduit shall be approved by the City
Engineer.
      (3)   Ground equipment associated with small wireless facilities shall be
minimized to lessen the visual impact.
      (4)   Concealment, stealth, shrouding, and camouflaging of small wireless
facilities and equipment shall be encouraged in certain areas, including, but
not limited to, the Central Business District, Park District, Residential
Districts, and Gateway Districts. Undergrounding shall also be encouraged in
these districts.
      (5)   Undergrounding. A network provider shall comply with
nondiscriminatory undergrounding requirements, City Code provisions, zoning
regulations, state law, private deed restrictions, and other public or private
restrictions that prohibit installing above-ground structures in a public
right-of-way without first obtaining zoning or land use approval. This
requirement or restriction shall not be interpreted to prohibit a network
provider from replacing an existing structure. Undergrounding may be required
at the discretion of the City Engineer in districts or zones requiring
additional review and approval, including, but not limited to, Design
Districts, Historic Districts, Residential Districts, Municipal Parks, and
locations where additional review is required for right-of-way management and
public health and safety, including, but not limited to, intersections and
high-traffic areas.
      (6)   No new wireless support structure installed within the right-of-way
shall exceed 50 feet in height without the city's written authorization,
provided that the city may impose a lower height limit in the applicable permit
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, or to protect the right-of-
way and its current use, and further provided that a registrant may replace an
existing wireless support structure exceeding 50 feet in height with a
structure of the same height subject to such conditions or requirements as may
be imposed in the applicable permit.
      (7)   No wireless facility may extend more than ten feet above its
wireless support structure.
      (8)   Where an applicant proposes to install a new wireless support
structure in the right-of-way, the city may impose separation requirements
between such structure and any existing wireless support structure or other
facilities in and around the right-of-way. Any separation distance under 150
feet shall require additional information be submitted to the City Engineer for
review and approval. Such information shall demonstrate the need for closer
spacing between structures/facilities.
      (9)   Where an applicant proposes collocation on a decorative wireless
support structure, sign, or other structure not intended to support small
wireless facilities, such equipment shall be consistent with the city's
aesthetic standards regarding wireless equipment as adopted by the City
Engineer and/or within the city's design manual. Such standards shall ensure
that wireless equipment is installed with a stealth design and that equipment
does not detract from the character of the area in which it is installed. In
addition, the City Engineer shall adopt standards that ensure city assets can
continue to effectively perform their intended function. Standards shall be
made available with the application required for a small cell permit.
      (10)   Where an applicant proposes to replace a wireless support
structure, the city may impose reasonable restocking, replacement, or
relocation requirements on the replacement of such structure.
      (11)   A permit will be deemed void if the approved equipment is not
installed within one year of issuance of the permit.
   (D)   Small wireless facility agreement.
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on a small
wireless support structure owned or controlled by the city, or any other city
asset in the right-of-way, after the applicant has executed a standard small
wireless facility collocation agreement with the city. The standard collocation
agreement shall require the following, up to a total annual fee of $270:
         (a)   Up to $150 per year for rent to collocate on the city structure;
         (b)   Twenty-five dollars per year for maintenance associated with the
collocation;
         (c)   A monthly fee for electrical service as follows:
            1.   Seventy-three dollars per radio node less than or equal to 100
maximum watts;
            2.   One hundred eighty-two dollars per radio node over 100 maximum
watts; or
            3.   The actual costs of electricity, if the actual costs exceed
the foregoing.
      (2)   The standard collocation agreement shall be in addition to, and not
in lieu of, the required small wireless facility permit; provided, however,
that the applicant shall not be additionally required to obtain a license or
franchise in order to collocate. Issuance of a small wireless facility permit
does not supersede, alter, or affect any then-existing agreement between the
city and applicant.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.26 ACTION ON SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Deadline for action. The city shall approve or deny a small wireless
facility permit application for a new support structure within 90 days, and/or
a node on an existing support structure within 60 days, after filing of such
application or within any time-line established by state law. The small
wireless facility permit, and any associated building permit application, shall
be deemed approved if the city fails to approve or deny the application within
the review periods established in this section.
   (B)   Consolidated applications.
      (1)   An applicant may file a consolidated small wireless facility permit
application addressing the proposed collocation of up to 15 small wireless
facilities, or a greater number if agreed to by a local government unit,
provided that all small wireless facilities in the application:
         (a)   Are located within a two-mile radius;
         (b)   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
         (c)   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support
structures.
      (2)   In rendering a decision on a consolidated permit application, the
city may approve some small wireless facilities and deny others, but may not
use denial of one or more permits as a basis to deny all small wireless
facilities in the application.
   (C)   Tolling of deadline. The 60-day or 90-day deadline for action on a
small wireless facility permit application may be tolled if:
      (1)   The city receives applications from one or more applicants seeking
approval of permits for more than 30 small wireless facilities within a seven-
day period. In such case, the city may extend the deadline for all such
applications by 30 days by informing the affected applicants in writing of such
extension.
      (2)   The applicant fails to submit all required documents or information
and the city provides written notice of incompleteness to the applicant within
ten days of receipt the application. Upon submission of additional documents or
information, the city shall have ten days to notify the applicant in writing of
any still-missing information.
      (3)   The city and a small wireless facility applicant agree in writing
to toll the review period.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.27 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall impose an excavation permit fee
in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall impose an obstruction permit
fee in an amount sufficient to recover the city management costs.
   (C)   Small wireless facility permit fee. The city shall impose a small
wireless facility permit fee in the amount of:
      (1)   Five hundred dollars for non-recurring fees, including a single up-
front application that includes up to five small wireless facilities, with an
additional $100 for each small wireless facility beyond five, or $1,000 for
non-recurring fees for a new pole (specifically, not a collocation) intended to
support one or more small wireless facilities;
      (2)   Two hundred seventy dollars per small wireless facility per year
for all recurring fees, including any right-of-way access fee or fee for
attachment to municipally-owned structures in the right-of-way; and
      (3)   Furthermore, the city may invoice an applicant an amount sufficient
to recover:
         (a)   Management costs; and
         (b)   City engineering, make-ready, and construction costs associated
with collocation of small wireless facilities.
   (D)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit, obstruction permit, or
small cell permit shall be issued without payment of all required fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay such fees within 30 days of billing.
   (E)   Non-refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the city
has revoked for a breach as stated in §
92.32 are not refundable.
   (F)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.28 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under §
92.31.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. Permittee shall patch its own work. The city
may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If, following such
restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee's improper backfilling, the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, all costs
associated with correcting the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit, post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules
part 7819.3000.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
patching, and restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the city and shall comply with Minn. Rules part 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee,
upon notification from the city, shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the city. Said work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the city,
not including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonable or
unreasonable under §
92.31.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city at its option may do such work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights under the
construction performance bond.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.29 JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Joint application. Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   Shared fees. Registrants who apply for permits for the same
obstruction or excavation, which the city does not perform, may share in the
payment of the obstruction or excavation permit fee. In order to obtain a joint
permit, registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each will pay
and indicate the same on their applications.
   (C)   With city projects. Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction or
excavation performed by the city, whether or not it is a joint application by
two or more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay the
excavation or obstruction and degradation portions of the permit fee, but a
permit would still be required.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.30 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater area
make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees required
thereby, and be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date, or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.31 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and authority, and to pay all fees required by the city, or other applicable
rule, law, or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, state, and federal laws, including, but not limited to, M.S. §§ 216D.01
through 216D.09 (Gopher One-Call Excavation Notice System) and Minn. Rules Ch.
7560. A permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all applicable
codes and established rules and regulations, and is responsible for all work
done in the right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who does the
work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
city, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way. A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those
doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit
area, unless parked in conformance with city parking regulations. The loading
or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined permit area
unless specifically authorized by the permit.
   (D)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including, but not limited
to, horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Ch. 216D and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560, and shall require pot-holing or open
cutting over existing underground utilities before excavating, as determined by
the Director.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.32 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Reasons for denial. The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the
requirements and conditions of this section, if the city determines that the
denial is necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public,
or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use and any city
asset or facility.
   (B)   Procedural requirements. The denial or revocation of a permit must be
made in writing and must document the basis for the denial. The city must
notify the applicant or right-of-way user in writing within three business days
of the decision to deny or revoke a permit. If an application is denied, the
right-of-way user may address the reasons for denial identified by the city and
resubmit its application. If the application is resubmitted within 30 days of
receipt of the notice of denial, no additional application fee shall be
imposed. The city must approve or deny the resubmitted application within 30
days after submission.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.33 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
parts 7819.1100 and 7819.5000, and other applicable local requirements, in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163.
Installation of service laterals shall be performed in accordance with Minn.
Rules Ch. 7560 and this code. Service lateral installation is further subject
to those requirements and conditions set forth by the city in the applicable
permits and/or agreements referenced in §
92.37(B).
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.34 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rules part 7819.1300 or other as built documentation as deemed necessary
by the City Engineer.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work site available to the
city and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety,
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work that
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director that
the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented within
the required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to §
92.37.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.35 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.
      (1)   Each registrant shall immediately notify the Director of any event
regarding its facilities that it considers to be an emergency. The registrant
may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to respond to the emergency.
Excavators' notification to Gopher State One-Call regarding an emergency
situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the registrant shall apply for the necessary
permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill the rest of the
requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this section for
the actions it took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant's
facilities, the city will attempt to contact the local representative of each
registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event,
the city may take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the
emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the registrant whose facilities
occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way, must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by this
code, deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to the
right-of-way, and comply with all of the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.36 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the city of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.37 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee's control; and/or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
92.34.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation, or any condition of the permit, the city shall
make a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand
shall state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the
permit. A substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its
discretion, to place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate
and remedy the breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. Permittee's failure to so
contact the city, permittee's failure to timely submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be cause
for immediate revocation of the permit. Further, permittee's failure to so
contact the city, permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
automatically place the permittee on probation for one full year.
   (D)   Cause for probation. From time to time, the city may establish a list
of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place the
permittee on probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to, working
out of the allotted time period or working on rights-of-way grossly outside of
the permit authorization.
   (E)   Automatic revocation. If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, permittee's permit will automatically be revoked and
permittee will not be allowed further permits for one full year, except for
emergency repairs.
   (F)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with such revocation.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.38 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required. Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules parts
7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Within 90 days following completion of any work
pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the Director accurate maps
and drawings certifying the "as-built" location of all equipment installed,
owned, and maintained by the permittee. Such maps and drawings shall include
the horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and equipment and shall
be provided consistent with the city's electronic mapping system, when
practical, or as a condition imposed by the Director. Failure to provide maps
and drawings pursuant to this division shall be grounds for revoking the permit
holder's registration.
   (B)   Service laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules part
7560.0150, subp. 2, shall require the permittee's use of appropriate means of
establishing the horizontal locations of installed service laterals and the
service lateral vertical locations in those cases where the Director reasonably
requires it. Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the Director
evidence satisfactory to the Director of the installed service lateral
locations. Compliance with this division and with applicable Gopher State One-
Call law and Minnesota Rules governing service laterals installed after Dec.
31, 2005, shall be a condition of any city approval necessary for:
      (1)   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project,
including those under M.S. Ch. 429; and
      (2)   City approval under development agreements or other subdivision or
site plan approval under M.S. Ch. 462. The Director shall reasonably determine
the appropriate method of providing such information to the city. Failure to
provide prompt and accurate information on the service laterals installed may
result in the revocation of the permit issued for the work or future permits to
the offending permittee or its subcontractors.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.39 LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must comply with the
Act, with other applicable law, with other applicable standards adopted by the
City Engineer, and with Minn. Rules parts 7819.3100, 7819.5000, and 7819.5100,
to the extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Undergrounding. Unless otherwise agreed in a franchise or other
agreement between the applicable right-of-way user and the city, facilities in
the right-of-way must be located or relocated and maintained underground in
accordance with the applicable undergrounding sections §§
92.60 through
92.65.
   (C)   Corridors.
      (1)   The city may assign a specific area within the right-of-way, or any
particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of facility that
is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will someday be located
within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or other permits issued
by the city involving the installation or replacement of facilities shall
designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
      (2)   Any registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position
at variance with the corridors established by the city shall, no later than at
the time of the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the
facilities are located, move the facilities to the assigned position within the
right-of-way, unless this requirement is waived by the city for good cause
shown, upon consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the
facilities, public safety, customer service needs, and hardship to the
registrant.
   (D)   Nuisance. One year after the passage of this subchapter, any
facilities found in a right-of-way that have not been registered shall be
deemed to be a nuisance. The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at
law or in equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or taking
possession of the facilities and restoring the right-of-way to a useable
condition.
   (E)   Limitation of space. To protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
public, or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the
city shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or
additional facilities within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the
city shall strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and
potential users of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by
considerations of the public interest, the public's needs for the particular
utility service, the condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with
respect to essential utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the
right-of-way, and future city plans for public improvements and development
projects which have been determined to be in the public interest.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.40 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. §§ 216D.01 through
216D.09 ("One-Call Excavation Notice System") before the start date of any
right-of-way excavation, each registrant who has facilities or equipment in the
area to be excavated shall mark the horizontal and vertical placement of all
said facilities. Any registrant whose facilities are less than 20 inches below
a concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work closely with the excavation
contractor to establish the exact location of its facilities and the best
procedure for excavation.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.41 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move a registrant's facilities to protect it, the city
shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing. Each registrant shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which it or its
facilities damage. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of
repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused during the
city's response to an emergency occasioned by that registrant's facilities.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.42 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   Reservation of right. If the city vacates a right-of-way that contains the
facilities of a registrant, the registrant's rights in the vacated right-of-way
are governed by Minn. Rules part 7819.3200.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.43 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By registering with the city, or by accepting a permit under this
subchapter, a registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the city
in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules part 7819.1250.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.44 ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the city must provide
information satisfactory to the city that the registrant's obligations for its
facilities in the right-of-way under this subchapter have been lawfully assumed
by another registrant.
   (B)   Removal. Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove it from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with
other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement
is waived by the city.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.45 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that has been denied registration, has been denied a
permit, has had a permit revoked, believes that the fees imposed are not in
conformity with M.S. § 237.163, subd. 6, or disputes a determination of the
Director regarding §
92.38(B), may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or decision
reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act
on a timely written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting, provided
the right-of-way user has submitted its appeal with sufficient time to include
the appeal as a regular agenda item. A decision by the City Council affirming
the denial, revocation, or fee imposition will be in writing and supported by
written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.46 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee's rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
city to adopt and enforce general ordinances as necessary to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.47 FRANCHISES.
   The city may, in addition to the requirements of this subchapter, require
any public utility or cable operator who has or seeks to have facilities or
equipment located in any public right-of-way to obtain a franchise.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.48 COUNTY OR STATE RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Any public right-of-way user who is required to obtain any county or state
permit for excavation or obstruction in any Rice County or Minnesota Department
of Transportation right-of-way must provide notification of permitting to the
city within one week of obtaining the permit, but no less than 48 hours before
the excavation would begin.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
UNDERGROUNDING OF UTILITIES
§ 92.60 UNDERGROUNDING.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the health, safety, and general
welfare of the public, and is intended to foster safe travel over the rights-
of-way; safety around homes and buildings where overhead feeds are connected;
and orderly development in the city consistent with its Comprehensive Plan.
Location and relocation, installation and reinstallation of facilities in the
right-of-way or in or on other public ground must be made in accordance with
this subchapter, and is intended to be enforced consistently with state and
federal law regulating right-of-way users, to the fullest extent of the city's
statutory and common law authority.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.61 UNDERGROUNDING OF FACILITIES.
   All facilities newly installed, constructed, or otherwise placed in the
public right-of-way, or in other public property held in common for public use,
must be located and maintained underground pursuant to the terms and conditions
of this subchapter and in accordance with applicable construction standards,
subject to the exceptions below. Above-ground installation, construction,
modification, or replacement of existing meters, gauges, transformers, street
lighting, pad mount switches, capacitor banks, re-closers, small wireless
facilities and service connection pedestals shall be allowed, in addition to
above-ground placement of new small wireless facilities in compliance with M.S.
§ 237.163 and properly permitted by the city. These requirements shall apply
equally outside of the corporate limits of the city coincident with city
jurisdiction of platting, subdivision regulation, or comprehensive planning as
may now or in the future be allowed by law.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.62 UNDERGROUDING OF PERMANENT REPLACEMENT, RELOCATED, OR RECONSTRUCTED
FACILITIES.
   If the city finds that one or more of the purposes set forth in this
subchapter would be promoted, the city may require a permanent replacement,
relocation, or reconstruction of a facility to be located and maintained
underground, with due regard for seasonal working conditions. For purposes of
this section, reconstruction means any substantial repair of or any improvement
to existing facilities. Undergrounding may be required, whether a replacement,
relocation, or reconstruction is initiated by the right-of-way user owning or
operating the facilities, or by the city in connection with the present or
future use by the city or other local government unit of the right-of-way or
other public ground for a public project; the public health or safety; or the
safety and convenience of travel over the right of way. Subject to §
92.63, all relocations from previously placed underground facilities shall be
to another underground location.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.63 EXCEPTIONS TO UNDERGROUNDING.
   The following exceptions to the strict application of this subchapter shall
be allowed upon the conditions stated.
   (A)   Technical feasibility; promotion of policy. Above-ground installation,
construction, or placement of facilities shall be allowed in residential,
commercial, and industrial areas where the Council, following consideration and
recommendation by the Planning Commission, finds that:
      (1)   Underground placement is not technically feasible due to
topographical, subsoil, or other existing conditions which significantly and
adversely affect underground facilities placement; or
      (2)   Failure to promote the purposes of undergrounding. The right-of-way
user clearly and convincingly demonstrates that none of the purposes under §
92.60 would be advanced by underground placement of facilities on the project
in question, or the city determines on its own review that undergrounding is
not warranted based on the circumstances of the proposed undergrounding.
   (B)   Temporary service. Above-ground installation, construction, or
placement of temporary service lines shall only be allowed:
      (1)   During new construction of any project for a period not to exceed
three months;
      (2)   During an emergency in order to safeguard lives or property within
the city;
      (3)   For a period of not more than seven months when soil conditions
make excavation impractical.
   (C)   Facilities subject to pre-emptive Public Utilities Commission siting
and routing jurisdiction. Facilities that are subject to certificate of need
and siting and routing requirements of the state Public Utilities Commission
are exempted from this subchapter to the extent that the city's undergrounding
authority is pre-empted by law.
   (D)   Collocation of small cell wireless facilities. Collocation of small
wireless facilities and installation of wireless support structures, approved
by the city and in compliance with M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163, are exempted
from this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.64 DEVELOPER RESPONSIBILITY.
   All owners, platters, or developers are responsible for complying with the
requirements of this subchapter, and prior to final approval of any plat or
development plan, shall submit to the Director written instruments from the
appropriate right-of-way users showing that all necessary arrangements with
said users for installation of such facilities have been made.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
§ 92.65 INSTALLATION OF UNDERGROUND FACILITIES WITHIN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF- WAY.
   The permittee shall comply with the following requirements when installing
underground facilities.
   (A)   Underground facilities shall, where reasonably possible, be installed
outside the paved or surface area. If unable to install outside the surfaced
area, the installation shall be as close to the edge of the roadway surface as
possible to allow access thereto without unnecessarily disturbing paved areas
of the roadway.
   (B)   Public right-of-way alignment and grade shall be maintained.
   (C)   Fiber facilities shall be buried in a proper conduit and at a depth of
no less than three feet deep and no more than four feet; copper facilities
below concrete or bituminous paved roadway surfaces shall be buried no less
than three feet deep and no more than four feet deep, and all other copper
facilities shall be buried no less than 30 inches deep and no more than four
feet deep.
   (D)   When required, the permittee shall excavate an observation hole over a
city utility to ensure that a city utility is not damaged.
   (E)   If the project work involves an open cut, the permittee shall install
visual tracers 12 inches over buried facilities. If other construction methods
are used, substitute location methods may be used upon approval by the city.
   (F)   During plowing or trenching of facilities, a warning tape shall be
placed at a depth of 12 inches above copper cables with over 200 pairs and
fiber facilities and a locating wire or conductive shield shall be installed
above buried telecommunication facilities, except for di-electric cables.
   (G)   Restoration of areas disturbed by facilities will include returning
the right-of-way to the same condition that existed before excavation as per
Minn. Rules part 7819.1100, as it may be amended from time to time. Subject to
this standard, plates 1 to 13, shown in Minn. Rules parts 7819.9900 to
7819.9950, as they may be amended from time to time, indicate maximum limits of
restoration methods and area requirements the local government unit can impose
when a right-of-way user excavates in the public right- of-way. The local
government unit and right-of-way user may agree to a lesser requirement. The
right-of-way user is responsible for all of its work done in the public right-
of-way, whether by employees, agents, or independent contractors. All levels of
restoration include compaction of the materials placed in the excavation of the
sub-grade and aggregate base, plus pavement replacement, in kind. If required
by the local government unit, all work must be performed according to the local
government unit's specifications and drawings.
   (H)   If reasonably possible, facilities should be located so as to avoid
interference with existing and potential future traffic signals and signs.
   (I)   Unless approved by the city, all above-ground appurtenances shall be
located no closer than ten feet to city hydrants, waterline valves, manholes,
lift stations, catch basins; not in front of or within visual sight lines of
any city sign, monument or amenity for facilities or parks; and no closer than
two feet from sidewalks, driveways, and trails.
   (J)   Underground facilities shall not be installed between a hydrant and an
auxiliary valve.
   (K)   Where utility easements exist beyond the roadway surface area of the
public right-of-way and space is available therein, underground facilities
shall not be installed within five feet of hydrants, waterline valves, lift
stations, manholes, or catch basins. In those areas in which no utility
easement exists, placement of an underground facility shall be between the edge
of pavement and no closer than three feet to an existing city utility
appurtenance, unless approved by the city.
   (L)   The location and installation of telecommunications facilities shall
comply with the National Electric Safety Code, as incorporated by reference in
the Minnesota Statutes.
(Ord. 2019-295, passed 3-25-2019)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS
Section
   
93.01   License required
   
93.02   Application and fee
§ 93.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall use or explode any fireworks, as defined in M.S. § 624.20,
as it may be amended from time to time, without a license therefor.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Every application for a license shall be made in writing to the City
Clerk/Administrator at least 15 days in advance of the date of the display. The
application shall be promptly referred to the Fire Marshal, who shall make an
investigation to determine whether the operator of the display is certified by
the State Fire Marshal, is competent and whether the display is of a character
and is to be so located, discharged or fired that it will not be hazardous to
property or endanger any person. The Fire Marshal shall report the findings of
this investigation to the Clerk/Administrator and if the Marshal reports that
in his or her opinion, the operator is competent and that the display as
planned, will conform to safety requirements, including the rules and
regulations of the State Fire Marshal, the Clerk/Administrator shall issue a
license for the display.
   (B)   The license shall not be issued until a fee as may be established from
time to time by Council resolution is paid for each day of the display.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Use of parks and recreation areas
   
94.02   Alcoholic beverages
Cross-reference:
   Park and Recreation Advisory Commission, see §
30.01
§ 94.01 USE OF PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS.
   (A)   All public parks and recreation areas shall be closed between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless time is required for completion of the
scheduled event. The park and recreation areas shall not be occupied by any
persons during the above hours, except city personnel or other personnel
authorized by the city. Baseball and softball lighting shall not be on after
10:15 p.m. at the Lonsdale Jaycee Park. Baseball lights will be allowed to
remain illuminated at the DRS until the completion of the scheduled event.
   (B)   Overnight parking shall be prohibited on park and recreation property.
   (C)   Engaging in obscene, offensive or abusive language or boisterous and
noisy conduct tending to arouse alarm, anger or resentment of others will not
be allowed. No person or group of persons shall commit, perform, or engage in
any lewd, lascivious, obscene or indecent act in any park. No person or group
of persons shall entice or attempt to entice another person to commit, perform
or engage in, any lewd, lascivious, obscene or indecent act in any park.
   (D)   No person shall bring or keep a dog or cat into or upon park property
unless such dog or cat is effectively restrained by means of a leash or chain
not more than ten feet long and is kept from disturbing persons, wild animals
and wildfowl. No person may bring any animal into an area of a park where
prohibited by posted signs. No person shall bring or keep a dog or cat into or
upon park property without possessing equipment for the removal of any feces
deposited by such dog or cat, and using such equipment for the immediate
removal and sanitary disposition of feces deposited by the dog or cat. No
person shall hunt, harm, kill, or trap any animal in any park or recreation
area without the expressed written consent of the city. Horses shall only be
permitted on or beside park and recreation roadways.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully mark, deface, tamper
with, displace or remove any buildings, bridges, playground equipment, tables,
benches, grills, railings, pavement, public utilities, trees, shrubbery, signs,
monuments, stakes, posts, equipment, facilities, park property or appurtenance,
whatsoever either real or personal.
   (F)   Drivers shall confine the operation of motorized vehicles upon or
within park property, to roads, parking areas or other areas specifically
designed as areas for parking and shall not be operated at a speed in excess of
15 mph in any park unless legally signed for a higher speed.
   (G)   No firearms, B.B. guns, air rifles, archery equipment, sling shots or
any other equipment commonly used as a weapon, explosives or fireworks shall be
brought into or used in park areas without city approval.
   (H)   No person shall distribute or disseminate leaflets, pamphlets or other
printed material except in parking lots or on sidewalks or trails on the
perimeter of the park or recreation area, or use any mechanical or electrical
device on any park property for soliciting or advertising, except upon prior
written consent of the city.
   (I)   Park and recreational facilities are open to the public for general
use between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. The facilities are available
on a first come, first served basis, unless reserved and posted for a special
event. Fees associated with reserving the facilities have been adopted and are
designated in the fee schedule. Fees are required to be paid in full at City
Hall prior to the date of the reservation.
   (J)   It is unlawful to throw, deposit, place or leave any paper, rubbish,
waste, cans, bottles or refuse of any kind, in any park or recreational area
except into receptacles provided for that purpose. The provided receptacles
shall be used only for rubbish, waste and garbage generated by the use of the
park and not for the general public to dump garbage.
   (K)   No person shall start, maintain or allow to burn any fire upon any
park property, except a small fire may be started and maintained in a grill
located within a park for cooking purposes only. Such a fire shall be started,
maintained, and extinguished by an adult and pursuant to regulations
established and posted by the City Council. Every person who starts or
maintains any such fire shall cause it to be completely extinguished before
leaving the picnic area and shall safely dispose of any residue or refuse
therefrom.
   (L)   No person shall hit any golf ball in any park.
   (M)   No person shall ride a bicycle or other nonmotorized vehicle on any
ballfield nor in such manner as to threaten or endanger the person or property
of others.
   (N)   No glass bottles are allowed in any park or recreational areas.
(Ord. 86, passed 4-25-1991; Am. Ord. 2007-216, passed 12-13-2007)
§ 94.02 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   No person shall transport, possess, or consume any alcoholic beverage
as defined by M.S. Ch. 340A in any park or recreation area between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. except with city approval.
   (B)   Any section or portion of any park or recreation area may be declared
closed to the consumption of alcoholic beverages as defined by M.S. Ch. 340A by
the City Council based upon the recommendation of city staff at any time or for
any interval of time, either temporarily or a regular and state interval, and
either entirely or for certain uses as the City Council shall find necessary.
   (C)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain parks as
alcohol free parks.
   (D)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any 3.2% malt liquor as defined
by M.S. Ch. 340A at any time in any park or recreational area except by
temporary on-sale license issued by the City Council pursuant to
Chapter 110 of this code.
   (E)   No person shall transport, possess, or consume any alcoholic beverage
as defined by M.S. Ch. 340A in any park or recreation area when a person is
selling or offering for sale any 3.2% malt liquor as defined by M.S. Ch. 340A
pursuant to a temporary on-sale license issued by the city.
   (F)   No person shall sell or offer for sale intoxicating liquor as defined
by M.S. Ch. 340A at any time in any park or recreational area.
(Ord. 86, passed 4-25-1991; Am. Ord. 2007-216, passed 12-13-2007) Penalty, see
§
10.99
CHAPTER 95: MAILBOXES
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   United States Postal Service regulations
   
95.03   Placement of mailboxes in right-of-way
   
95.04   Snowplowing; damage
   
95.05   Violations
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY CLERK/ADMINISTRATOR. The Clerk/Administrator of the City of Lonsdale or
designee.
   MAILBOX. A receptacle intended for the receipt or delivery of mail meeting
United States Postal Service standards.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. As used in this chapter the term right-of-way means all
dedicated streets, alleys and public rights-of-way, and easements and public
streets or alleys.
(Ord. 2003-128, passed 2-27-2003)
§ 95.02 UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE REGULATIONS.
   All mailboxes shall comply with regulations promulgated from time to time by
the United States Postal Service governing mailboxes, including amendments
thereto. To the extent such regulations conflict with the provisions of this
chapter, such regulations shall control.
(Ord. 2003-128, passed 2-27-2003)
§ 95.03 PLACEMENT OF MAILBOXES IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Location of support structure.
      (1)   No portion of a mailbox support shall be closer than 12 inches to
the vertical plane of the face of the curb;
      (2)   In areas where there is a roll curb the mailbox support shall be at
least 12 inches from the vertical plane of the outer edge of the curb;
      (3)   In areas where there is no curb the support shall be at least 12
inches from the graded portion of the right-of-way.
   (B)   Height. The bottom of the mailbox itself shall be not less than 38
inches and not more than 45 inches above the level of the street at the point
at which the support setback is determined.
   (C)   Side yard setbacks. Mailboxes shall be located within the side yard
setbacks as established by the city zoning code. The mailboxes shall be
displayed in groups of two between the adjacent property owners.
   (D)   Interference with traffic. Notwithstanding any provision set forth
herein, no mailbox shall be placed in a location where it interferes with
vehicular traffic, including access to private driveways. Mailboxes shall not
interfere with intersection sight lines.
   (E)   Gopher State One Call. Any person installing a mailbox shall comply
with the requirements of the Gopher State One Call System.
   (F)   Exceptions. Temporary mailbox installation not in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter may be allowed during construction or reconstruction
of a street.
   (G)   Newspaper boxes. No additional boxes shall be allowed attached to the
mailbox or post. Any such boxes must be placed outside of the city right-of-
way.
   (H)   Culs-de-sac. Mailboxes shall be placed in groups of two except in the
cul-de-sac circle. The boxes in the circle shall be placed in a manner as
described by the Postmaster of the city.
(Ord. 2003-128, passed 2-27-2003)
§ 95.04 SNOWPLOWING; DAMAGE.
   (A)   Claims. Any claim for damage to a mailbox by employees or agents of
the city shall be submitted to the City Clerk/Administrator in writing on a
form prepared by the city.
   (B)   Limited liability.
      (1)   The city will not be responsible for damages to mailboxes placed in
the right-of-way in violation of this chapter, nor will the city be responsible
for damages resulting only from flying snow.
      (2)   The city and public utility franchises may remove any mailboxes and
mailbox supports if necessary to construct, maintain or repair facilities in
the right-of-way. In the event of damage to a mailbox resulting from the
mailbox or support structure being struck by snowplowing equipment operated by
the city or its agents, the city shall be responsible for reasonable repairs up
to and including replacement.
      (3)   The City Clerk/Administrator shall determine reasonable repairs.
The decision of the City Clerk/Administrator may be appealed to the City
Council by submitting such appeal in writing within 30 days of the City Clerk/
Administrator's decision.
   (C)   Snow clearance. The city plows the streets. It is the responsibility
of the postal customer to keep the approach to the mailbox clear of
obstructions to allow safe access for delivery.
(Ord. 2003-128, passed 2-27-2003)
§ 95.05 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The owner of any mailbox placed in violation of this chapter may be
ordered to remove the same by the City Clerk/Administrator. The City Clerk/
Administrator's order may be appealed to the City Council by filing a written
appeal specifying the grounds therefore within ten days of the date of the City
Clerk/Administrator's order.
   (B)   The city may remove any mailbox or support structure which constitutes
a hazard or otherwise interferes with the use of the public right-of-way. The
costs of removal are the responsibility of the owner and may be assessed
against the real estate for collection with the real estate taxes as provided
by law.
   (C)   Petty misdemeanor. Any violation of this chapter, including failure to
comply with an order of the City Clerk/Administrator which has become final by
failure to appeal, is a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2003-128, passed 2-27-2003)
CHAPTER 96: USE OF SELF-PROPELLED ROLLER DEVICES
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Self-propelled roller device regulations
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health and safety from
hazards arising out of the use of skateboards, roller blades, roller skates,
roller skis and scooters within the city. The City Council finds that there are
certain public streets and public property where the operation and use of
skateboards, roller blades, roller skates, roller skis and scooters create
unnecessary potential dangers to either the user of the devices or the general
public, and that the use of the devices in an improper manner may cause
destruction of property.
(Ord. 2007-213, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SELF-PROPELLED ROLLER DEVICES. Any device designed to be propelled by human
power that moves on rollers, such as roller skates, rollerblades, skateboards,
roller skis, and scooters or coasters. It does not include wheelchairs.
   WHEELCHAIR. Any manual or motorized wheelchair, scooter, tricycle, or
similar device used by a disabled person as a substitute for walking.
(Ord. 2007-213, passed 6-14-2007)
§ 96.03 SELF-PROPELLED ROLLER DEVICE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, prohibit the use of self-
propelled roller devices on designated streets, sidewalks and public property.
   (B)   No person shall use a self-propelled roller device on any street,
sidewalk or in any other public property where such use has been prohibited by
resolution of the City Council and such prohibition has been posted. This
section, however, does not prohibit crossing prohibited streets at
intersections marked by a crosswalk.
   (C)   Any person who is using a self-propelled roller device on any of the
streets or roadways within the city where such use is not posted as prohibited
must observe the same rules of the road as required of pedestrians pursuant to
M.S. § 169.21, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   No person shall use a self-propelled roller device anywhere carelessly
or heedlessly in disregard of the rights of others, or in a manner that
endangers or is likely to endanger any property or any person, including the
user.
(Ord. 2007-213, passed 6-14-2007)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
111.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
         
112.   TOBACCO REGULATIONS
         
113.   AMUSEMENTS
         
114.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         
115.   JUNK AND MOTOR VEHICLE SALVAGE FACILITIES
         
116.   MOBILE FOOD UNITS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   [Reserved]
Intoxicating and 3.2% Malt Liquor
   
110.20   Adoption of state law by reference
   
110.21   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
110.22   Definitions
   
110.23   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
110.24   Consumption in public places
   
110.25   Raffles, silent auctions and fund raising events for charitable
purposes of wine, beer or intoxicating liquors
   
110.26   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
110.27   Term and expiration of licenses
   
110.28   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
110.29   License fees; pro rata
   
110.30   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
110.31   Application for license
   
110.32   Description of premises
   
110.33   Applications for renewal
   
110.34   Transfer of license
   
110.35   Investigation
   
110.36   Hearing and issuance
   
110.37   Restrictions on issuance
   
110.38   Conditions of license
   
110.39   Hours and days of sale
   
110.40   Minors on premises
   
110.41   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
110.42   Suspension and revocation
   
110.43   Application of §§
110.44 through
110.48
   
110.44   Existing municipal stores continued
   
110.45   Location
   
110.46   Operation
   
110.47   Proof of financial responsibility
   
110.48   Issuance of other licenses
Administration
   
110.65   Administrative penalties
   
110.66   Compliance checks
   
110.67   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 [RESERVED].
INTOXICATING AND 3.2% MALT LIQUOR
§ 110.20 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this subchapter as if set out in full. It is the intention
of the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A are hereby
adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time
this subchapter is adopted.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.21 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.22 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101 as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
subchapter.
   LIQUOR. As used in this subchapter, without modification by the words
“intoxicating” or a “3.2% malt” includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt
liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a restaurant as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a “small establishment,” “medium establishment” or
“large establishment” as defined in M.S. § 157.16, subd. 3(d), as it may be
amended from time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that
receives heat treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is
heated and served, shall not be considered to be a restaurant for purposes of
this subchapter unless it meets the definitions of a “small establishment”,
“medium establishment” or “large establishment”.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.23 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this subchapter This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
subchapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2% malt liquor license or any other license issued under this subchapter or
the imposition of a civil penalty under the provisions of §
110.99(B).
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.24 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   Reserved for future use.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.25 RAFFLES, SILENT AUCTIONS AND FUND RAISING EVENTS FOR CHARITABLE
PURPOSES OF WINE, BEER OR INTOXICATING LIQUORS.
   No person shall conduct a silent auction, raffle of other fund raising event
pursuant to M.S. § 340A.707 with prizes or awards of wine, beer or intoxicating
liquors without notifying the city clerk of the event at least ten days prior
to the occurrence of the event. The event holder shall provide the city with
the following information: the person or organization holding the event, the
day, time and location of the event, type of fund raising event (silent
auction, raffle or otherwise), type and amount of wine, beer, intoxicating
liquor to be awarded as prizes, and the charitable purposes to which the event
proceeds will be donated.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.26 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   Minnesota Statute § 340A.413, subd. 3 as it may be amended from time to time
establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue. The Council is
not required to issue the full number of licenses that it has available.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.27 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on June 30 of each year unless another
date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same date.
Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and display
permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the accompanying city
consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.28 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The council of a city that does not have a municipal liquor store is
authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to the number
specified in §
110.26. The council of a city which has a municipal liquor store is authorized
to issue only those licenses specified in §
110.48.
   (A)   3.2% malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to golf
courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments used
exclusively for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of
tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   3.2% malt liquor off-sale license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off-sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the Council under §
110.29 shall not exceed $240 or a greater amount which may be permitted by M.S.
§ 340A.408, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this subchapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
theaters, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, theaters
and exclusive liquor stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval
of the Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by
the Council under §
110.29 of this subchapter shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. §
340A.408, subd. 2(b) as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may in
its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense
intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at a community festival held
within the city under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 4(b) as it may
be amended from time to time. The Council may in its sound discretion authorize
a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed
premises at any convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair
conducted on the premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned
by the city, under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 4(a) as it may be
amended from time to time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing
intoxicating liquor to any person attending or participating in an amateur
athletic event being held on the premises.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant as defined in §
110.22 of this subchapter, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating
capacity of at least 30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor
license, and which serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food.
The maximum fee for this license, which shall be established by the Council
under the provisions of §
110.29 of this subchapter, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount
provided by M.S. § 340A.504, subd. 3(c), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses if the city
has a population less than 10,000.
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least three years; a political committee
registered under state law; or a state university. No license shall be for
longer than four consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12
days’ worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year.
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: theaters, restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25
guests at one time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 5, as it may
be amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
110.22; to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.4011, subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time and to
theaters that meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 11(b) as it may be
amended from time to time. The fee for an on-sale wine license established by
the Council under the provisions of §
110.29 of this subchapter, shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged
for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine
license who also holds an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license is authorized to
sell malt liquor with a content over 3.2% (strong beer) without an additional
license.
   (J)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization.
   (K)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of §
110.29 of this subchapter shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount
permitted by M.S. § 340A.414, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time
Consumption and display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year.
   (L)   Culinary class limited on-sale licenses may be issued to a business
establishment not otherwise eligible for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license
that, as part of its business, conducts culinary or cooking classes for which
payment is made by each participant or advance reservation required. The
license authorizes the licensee to furnish to each participant in each class,
at no additional cost to the participant, up to a maximum of six ounces of wine
or 12 ounces of intoxicating malt liquor, during and as part of the class, for
consumption on the licensed premises only.
   (M)   Temporary off-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commission
of Public Safety, may be issued for the off-sale of wine at an auction. A
license issued under this subdivision authorizes the sale of only vintage wine
of a brand and vintage that is not commonly being offered for sale by any
wholesaler in Minnesota. The license may authorize the off-sale of wine for not
more than three consecutive days provided not more than 600 cases of wine are
sold at any auction. The licenses are subject to the terms, including license
fee, imposed by §
110.29.
   (N)   Brew pub on-sale intoxicating liquor or on-sale 3.2% malt liquor
licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued
to brewers who operate a restaurant in their place of manufacture and who meet
the criteria established at M.S. § 340A.24, as it may be amended from time to
time. Sales under this license at on-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per
year. If a brew pub licensed under this section possesses a license for off-
sale under division (O) of this section, the brew pub’s total combined retail
sales at on-sale or offsale n-lay not exceed 3,500 barrels per year, provided
that off-sales may not total more than 500 barrels.
   (O)   (1)   Brewer off-sale malt liquor licenses, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued to a brewer that is a licensee
under division (N) of this section and otherwise meets the criteria established
at M.S. § 340A.24, as it may be amended from time to time. Off-sale of malt
liquor shall be limited to the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive liquor
stores in the city. Malt liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the premises
before the applicable offsale closing time at exclusive liquor stores. All malt
liquor sold under this license shall be packaged in the manner required by M.S.
§ 340A.285 as it may be amended from time to time. Sales under this license may
not exceed 500 barrels per year. If a brewer licensed under this section
possesses a license under division (N) of this section, the brewer’s total
retail sales at onsale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per year,
provided that off-sales may not total more than 500 barrels.
      (2)   Brewer off-sale malt liquor licenses may also be issued, with
approval of the Commissioner, to a holder of a brewer’s license under M.S. §
340A.301, subd. 6(c), (i) or (j) and meeting the criteria established by M.S. §
340A.28 as may be amended from time to time The amount of malt liquor sold at
off-sale may not exceed 500 barrels annually. Off-sale of malt liquor shall be
limited to the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive liquor stores in the
jurisdiction in which the brewer is located, and the malt liquor sold off-sale
must be removed from the premises before the applicable off-sale closing time
at exclusive liquor stores. Packaging of malt liquor for offsale under this
license must comply with M.S. § 340A.285.
   (P)   Brewer temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued,
with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, to brewers who
manufacture fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year for the on-sale
of intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event within the
municipality sponsored by the brewer.
   (Q)   A brewer taproom license, may be issued to the holder of a brewer’s
license under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(c), (i) or (j) as it may amended from
time to time. A brewer’s taproom license authorizes on-sale of malt liquor
produced by the brewer for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one
brewery location owned by the brewer. A brewer may have only one taproom
license and may not have an ownership interest in a brewer licensed under M.S.
§ 340A.301, subd. 6(d) as it may be amended from time to time. A brewer taproom
license may not be issued to a brewer that brews more than 250,000 barrels of
malt liquor annually or a winery that produces more than 250,000 gallons of
wine annually. Within ten days of issuing a brewer taproom license the City
Clerk will inform the Commissioner of Public Safety of the licensee’s name,
address, trade name and the effective date and expiration date of the license.
The City Clerk will inform the Commissioner of Public Safety of a license
transfer, cancellation, suspension, or revocation during the license period.
   (R)   A cocktail room license may be issued to the holder of a state
microdistillery license. A microdistillery cocktail room license authorizes on-
sale of distilled liquor produced by the distiller for consumption on the
premises of or adjacent to one distillery location owned by the distiller. The
holder of a microdistillery cocktail room license may also hold a license to
operate a restaurant at the distillery. No more than one cocktail room license
may be issued to any distiller and a microdistillery cocktail room license may
not be issued to any person having an ownership interest in a distillery
licensed under M.S. § 340A.301 subd. 6(a). No single entity may hold both a
microdistillery cocktail room and taproom license and a microdistillery
cocktail room and taproom license may not be co-located. Within ten days of the
issuance of a microdistillery cocktail room license, the city shall inform the
commissioner of public safety of the licensee’s name and address and trade
name, and the effective date and expiration date of the license. The city shall
also inform the commissioner of public safety of a microdistillery cocktail
room license transfer, cancellation, suspension, or revocation during the
license period.
   (S)   A microdistiller off-sale license may be issued to the holder of a
state microdistillery license. A microdistiller off-sale license authorizes
off-sale of one 375 milliliter bottle per customer per day of product
manufactured on-site provided the product is also available for distribution to
wholesalers.
   (T)   A microdistiller temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor license may be
issued to the holder of a state microdistillery license. A microdistillery
temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor license authorizes on-sale of
intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event within the city sponsored
by the microdistillery.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.29 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time in the ordinance
establishing fees and charges the fee for any of the liquor licenses it is
authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the
license and other costs directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws
and this subchapter No liquor license fee shall be increased without providing
mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees
at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a monthly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (F)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licensees may request a reduction in
their annual license fee by the amount specified in M.S. § 340A.408 if at the
time of initial application or renewal they:
      (1)   Agree to have a private vendor approved by the city train all
employees within 60 days of hire and annually thereafter in laws pertaining to
the sale alcohol, the rules for identification checks, and the responsibilities
of establishments serving intoxicating liquors;
      (2)   Post a policy requiring identification checks for all persons
appearing to be 30 years old or less;
      (3)   Establish a written cash award and incentive program to award
employees who catch underage drinkers and a written penalty program to punish
employees in the event of a failed compliance check;
      (4)   Failure to abide by the provisions of this division may result in
suspension of the license until the conditions of the fee reduction are met and
may result in suspension and/or revocation of the license pursuant to §
110.42 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.30 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.31 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this subchapter
shall be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name
of the applicant, the applicant’s age, representations as to the applicant’s
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this subchapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial
responsibility as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to
time, with regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from
time to time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of
Public Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this subchapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.32 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.33 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 45 days before a license issued under this subchapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.34 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this subchapter may be transferred without the
approval of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is
deemed to be a transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior
Council approval is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to
transfer a license shall be treated the same as an application for a new
license, and all of the provisions of this code applying to applications for a
license shall apply.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.35 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $5,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.36 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.37 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the city to any one person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.38 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an on-sale license shall receive training
regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The training shall be
provided by an organization approved by the Council. Proof of training shall be
provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this subchapter and the law
equally with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee, or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this subchapter is a continuing condition of any license.
   (F)   Failure by on off-sale intoxicating liquor license who has received a
fee reduction pursuant to §
110.29(F) of this subchapter to abide with the provisions of §
110.29(F).
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.39 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours than state
law allows.
      (1)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be as follows:
         (a)   3.2% malt liquor. No sales of 3.2% malt liquor may be made
between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of Monday through Saturday, nor
between 1:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on Sunday.
         (b)   Intoxicating liquor, on-sale. No sale of intoxicating liquor for
consumption on the licensed premises may be made between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00
a.m. on the days of Monday through Saturday.
         (c)   Intoxicating liquor, Sunday sale; on-sale. No sale of
intoxicating liquor for consumption on the licensed premises may be made
between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Sundays.
         (d)   Intoxicating liquor, off-sale. No sale of intoxicating liquor
may be made by an off-sale licensee:
            1.   On Sundays, except between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 6:00
p.m.;
            2.   Before 8:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. on Monday through
Saturday;
            3.   On Thanksgiving Day;
            4.   On Christmas Day, December 25;
            5.   After 8:00 p.m. on Christmas Eve, December 24.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any table,
bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes
after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.40 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be employed
as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person, host or dishwashing
services in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multipurpose
building serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt
liquor are sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.41 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.42 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this subchapter
relating to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial
responsibility, no suspension or revocation shall take effect until the
licensee has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the
Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended
from time to time. The Council may act as the hearing body under that act, or
it may contract with the Office of Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
subchapter or M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any
rules promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time.
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2% malt liquor, or
violation of §
110.23, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this subchapter for at least the minimum periods
as follows.
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, at least
one day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any three-year period, at least
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this subchapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within ten days.
Any suspension under this division (B) shall continue until the Council
determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this
subchapter have again been met.
   (D)   The provisions of §
110.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or in
lieu of any suspension or revocation under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.43 APPLICATION OF §§ 110.44 THROUGH 110.48.
   Sections
110.44 to
110.48 apply only to a city that has in existence on the effective date of this
subchapter a municipal liquor store.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.44 EXISTING MUNICIPAL STORES CONTINUED.
   If the city has in existence on the effective date of this subchapter a
municipal liquor store for the sale of intoxicating liquor, the store is
continued. Except as provided in §
110.48, no intoxicating liquor may be sold at retail elsewhere in the city.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.45 LOCATION.
   The municipal liquor store shall be located at a suitable place in the city
as the Council determines by motion. However, no premises upon which taxes,
assessments, or other public charges are delinquent shall be leased for
municipal liquor store purposes. The Council shall have the right to establish
additional off-sale and on-sale stores at other locations as it may, from time
to time, by motion, determine.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.46 OPERATION.
   (A)   Manager. The municipal liquor store shall be in the immediate charge
of a liquor store manager selected by the Council and paid compensation as is
fixed by the Council. The Manager shall not be a person who would be prohibited
by law or any provision of this subchapter from being eligible for an
intoxicating liquor license. The Manager shall furnish a surety bond to the
city, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of the duties of the office, in a
sum as specified by the Council. The bond premium may be paid by the city or
the Manager, in the discretion of the Council. The Manager shall operate the
municipal liquor store and shall perform those duties in connection with the
store. The Manager shall be responsible for the conduct of the store in full
compliance with this subchapter and with the laws relating to the sale of
intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor.
   (B)   Other employees. The Council may also appoint additional employees as
may be required and shall fix their compensation. All employees, including the
Manager, shall hold their positions at the pleasure of the Council. No person
under the age of 18 shall be employed in the store. The Council may require the
employees to furnish surety bonds conditioned for the faithful discharge of
their duties in a sum as specified by the Council. The premium on the bond may
be paid by the city or the employees, as the Council determines.
   (C)   Municipal liquor store fund. All of the revenues received from the
operation of a municipal liquor store shall be deposited in a municipal liquor
store fund from which all ordinary operating expenses, including compensation
of the Manager and employees, shall be paid. Surpluses accumulating in the fund
may be transferred to the general fund of the city or to any other appropriate
fund of the city by resolution of the Council, and may be expended for any
municipal purpose. The handling of municipal liquor store receipts and
disbursements shall comply with the procedure prescribed by law and charter for
the receipts and disbursements of city funds generally.
   (D)   Financial statement. The Council shall provide within 90 days
following the end of the calendar year for publication a balance sheet using
generally accepted accounting procedures and a statement of operations of the
municipal liquor store for that year. The balance sheet and statement shall be
published in accordance with the provisions of M.S. § 471.6985, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   Hours of operation. The hours during which the sale of intoxicating
liquor may be sold shall be as provided in §
110.39. No person, other than the manager or a store employee, may remain in
the municipal liquor store longer than one-half hour after the time when the
sale of intoxicating liquor must cease.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.47 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility required by
licensees of retail intoxicating liquor establishments under the provisions of
M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.48 ISSUANCE OF OTHER LICENSES.
   (A)   On-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. The Council may
issue in its sound discretion on-sale licenses to a club under M.S. § 340A.404,
subd. 1(4), as it may be amended from time to time. If the voters have
authorized their issuance at a special election called for that purpose, the
Council may issue in its sound discretion on-sale liquor licenses to hotels and
restaurants. The number of on-sale licenses issued under this section is
governed by M.S. § 340A.413, as it may be amended from time to time, as limited
by the provisions of this subchapter. The issuance of these licenses is
governed by the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. State law does
not authorize the issuance of off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating
liquor by cities which operate a municipal liquor dispensary.
   (C)   On- and off-sale 3.2% malt liquor licenses. The Council may issue 3.2%
malt liquor licenses in its sound discretion as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 110.65 ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   The Council may either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§
14.57 to 14.70, as they may be amended from time to time. The Council may act
as the hearing body under that act, or it may contract with the Office of
Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the
impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has received
notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation of a
license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing to
the Clerk/Administrator, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within
ten days. Any suspension under this division (B) shall continue until the
Council determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law
and this chapter have again been met.   
   (C)   The provisions of division (D) pertaining to administrative penalty
may be imposed in addition to or in lieu of any suspension or revocation under
this chapter.
   (D)   The Council may impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of this
chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in order
for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§
14.57 to 14.70, as they may be amended from time to time, is not required
before the penalty is imposed, but the Council shall hold a hearing on the
proposed violation and the proposed penalty and hear any person who wishes to
speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for suspension or revocation of
the license.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
§ 110.66 COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city employee,
or any other person designated by the Council to conduct inspections, to enter,
inspect, and search the premises of the licensee during business hours without
a warrant.
§ 110.67 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2% malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of §
10.99.
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this §§
110.20 through
110.48 or M.S. Ch. 340A as it may be amended from time to time or any rules
promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time is
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as provided by
law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of §§
110.20 through
110.48. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in order
for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time,
is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the Council shall hold a
hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty and hear any person
who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for suspension or
revocation of the license. The following is the minimum schedule of presumptive
civil penalties which must be imposed in addition to any suspension unless the
license is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any three-year period, $500.
      (2)   For the second violation within any three-year period, $1,000.
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period, $2,000.
   (C)   The term “violation” as used in §
110.42 includes any and all violations of the provisions in this section, or of
M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated
under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time. The number of
violations shall be determined on the basis of the history of violations for
the preceding three-year period. Revocation shall occur within 60 days
following a violation for which revocation is imposed.
(Ord. 2017-278, passed 6-8-2017)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Licensing; exemptions
   
111.03   Exclusion by placard
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personnel property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
"hawker."
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the city hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays, defined by state law,
shall not be counted as REGULAR BUSINESS DAYS.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the same as
the term "canvasser."
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter or empty store front for
the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell
and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal property
and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for more than
14 consecutive days.
§ 111.02 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   No person shall conduct business as a peddler, solicitor or transient
merchant within the city limits without first having obtained the appropriate
license from the county as required by M.S. Ch. 329, as it may be amended from
time to time.
§ 111.03 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least four inches long and four
inches wide with print of at least 48-point in size stating "No Peddlers,
Solicitors or Transient Merchants," or "Peddlers, Solicitors and Transient
Merchants Prohibited," or other comparable statement. No person other than the
property owner or tenant shall remove, deface or otherwise tamper with any sign
or placard under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: TOBACCO REGULATIONS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions and interpretations
   
112.03   License required; fees
   
112.04   Basis for denial of license
   
112.05   Prohibited sales
   
112.06   Vending machines
   
112.07   Self-service sales
   
112.08   Responsibility
   
112.09   Compliance checks and inspections
   
112.10   Other illegal acts
   
112.11   Violations
   
112.12   Exceptions and defenses
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   The city recognizes that many persons under the age of 18 years purchase or
otherwise obtain, possess and use tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related
devices, and the sales, possession and use are violations of both state and
federal laws. Studies have shown that most smokers begin smoking before they
have reached the age of 18 years and that those persons who reach the age of 18
years without having started smoking are significantly less likely to begin
smoking. Smoking has been shown to be the cause of several serious health
problems which subsequently place a financial burden on all levels of
government this chapter shall be intended to regulate the sale, possession and
use of tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related devices for the purpose of
enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect minors against the serious
effects associated with the illegal use of tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco related devices, and to further the official public policy of the state
in regard to preventing young people from starting to smoke as stated in M.S. §
144.391, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-26-1998)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related devices
are following and complying with the requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE
CHECKS shall involve the use of minors as authorized by this chapter.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the use of minors who attempt to purchase
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices for educational, research
and training purposes as authorized by state and federal laws. COMPLIANCE
CHECKS may also be conducted by other units of government for the purpose of
enforcing appropriate federal, state or local laws and regulations relating to
tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related devices.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. Individually wrapped tobacco and tobacco
products shall include, but not be limited to single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging
of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this chapter shall not be
considered INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED.
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette.
   MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 18 years.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a truck,
van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a
fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized for
sales transactions.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco related devices are available for sale to the general public. RETAIL
ESTABLISHMENTS shall include, but not be limited to grocery stores, convenience
stores and restaurants.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco related devices in any manner where any person shall have access to the
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices, without the assistance or
intervention of the licensee or the licensee's employee. The assistance or
intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco
product or tobacco related device between the customer and the licensee or
employee. SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING shall not include vending machines.
   TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance or item containing tobacco leaf,
including but not limited to cigarettes; cigars; pipe tobacco; snuff; fine cut
or other chewing tobacco; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut,
crimp cut, ready-rubbed and other smoking tobacco; snuff flowers; cavendish;
shorts, plug and twist tobaccos; dipping tobaccos; refuse scraps, clippings,
cuttings and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco leaf
prepared in such manner as to be suitable for chewing, sniffing or smoking.
   TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES. Any tobacco product as well as a pipe, rolling
papers or other device intentionally designed or intended to be used in a
manner which enables the chewing, snuffing or smoking of tobacco or tobacco
products.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices
upon the insertion of money, tokens or other form of payment directly into the
machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco related device.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-26-1998)
§ 112.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco related device without first having obtained a license to do so from
the city.
      (1)   An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco related devices shall be made on a form provided by the city. The
application shall contain the full name of the applicant, the applicant's
residential and business addresses and telephone numbers, the name of the
business for which the license is sought, and any additional information the
city deems necessary. Upon receipt of a completed application, the City Clerk/
Administrator shall forward the application to the Council for action at its
next regularly scheduled council meeting. If the Clerk/Administrator shall
determine that an application is incomplete, he or she shall return the
application to the applicant with notice of the information necessary to make
the application complete.
      (2)   The Council may either approve or deny the license, or it may delay
action for the reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
Council shall approve the license, the Clerk/Administrator shall issue the
license to the applicant. If the Council denies the license, notice of the
denial shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant's
right to appeal the Council's decision.
      (3)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire on December 31
of the year of issuance.
      (4)   Any license issued under this chapter may be revoked or suspended
as provided herein.
      No transfer of any license to another location or person shall be valid
without the prior approval of the Council.
      (6)   No license shall be issued to a moveable place of business. Only
fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be licensed under this chapter.
      (7)   All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of the
general public on the licensed premise.
      (8)   The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be handled
in the same manner as the original application. The request for a renewal shall
be made at least 30 days but no more than 60 days before the expiration of the
current license. The issuance of a license issued under this chapter shall be
considered a privilege and not an absolute right of the applicant and shall not
entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the license.
   (B)   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate
license fee shall be paid in full. License fees shall be set by the City
Council by resolution. License fees may not be prorated.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-26-1998)
§ 112.04 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of
a license under this chapter, provided that, except as may otherwise be
required by law, the existence of any particular ground for denial does not
mean that the city must deny the license.
   (B)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under
this section:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state or local law ordinance provision or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products or tobacco related devices;
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco related devices revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date
of application;
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information; and/or
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state or other local law,
ordinance or other regulation, from holding a license.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-26-1998)
§ 112.05 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to
sell any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device:
   (A)   To any person under the age of 18 years;
   (B)   By means of any type of vending machine;
   (C)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need to
make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premises in
order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device and
whereby there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco related device between the licensee or the licensee's employee and the
customer;
   (D)   By means of loosies;
   (E)   Containing opium, morphine, jimpson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process; or
   (F)   By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision or
other regulation.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-26-1998)
§ 112.06 VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices by the means of a
vending machine.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-26-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.07 SELF-SERVICE SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to allow the sale of
tobacco or tobacco products or tobacco related devices by any means where by
the customer may have access to the items without having to request the item
from the licensee or the licensee's employee and whereby there is not a
physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product or the tobacco related device
between the licensee or his or her clerk and the customer. All tobacco, tobacco
products and tobacco related devices shall either be stored behind a counter or
other area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage
unit not left open and accessible to the general public.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-26-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.08 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco
related devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of an item by an
employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as prohibiting the city from also subjecting the
employee to whatever penalties are appropriate under this chapter, state or
federal law or other applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-26-1998)
§ 112.09 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the city police or
other authorized city official during regular business hours. From time to
time, but at least once per year, the city shall conduct compliance checks by
engaging minors over the age of 15 years but less than 18 years (with the
written consent of their parents or guardians), to enter the licensed premises
to attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices.
Minors used for the purpose of compliance checks shall be supervised by city
designated law enforcement officers or other designated city personnel. Minors
used for compliance checks shall not be guilty of unlawful possession of
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices when the items are
obtained as a part of the compliance check. No minor used in compliance checks
shall attempt to use a false identification misrepresenting the minor's age,
and all minors lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all
questions about the minors age asked by the licensee or his or her employee and
shall produce any identification, if any exists, for which he or she is asked.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by state or
federal laws for educational, research or training purposes, or required for
the enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-26-1998)
§ 112.10 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or
otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device to any
minor.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to have in his
or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device. This
division shall not apply to minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to smoke, chew,
sniff or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to purchase or
attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco
related device, and it shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to
purchase or otherwise obtain the items on behalf of a minor. It shall further
be a violation for any person to coerce or attempt to coerce a minor to
illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco related device. This division shall not apply to minors lawfully
involved in a compliance check.
   (E)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to attempt to
disguise his or her true age by the use of a false form of identification,
whether the identification is that of another person or one on which the age of
the person has been modified or tampered with to represent an age older than
the actual age of the person.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-26-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.11 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon report of a violation, the violator shall be issued, either
personally or by mail, a notice that sets forth the violation and the penalty
therefore, and which shall inform the alleged violator of his or her right to
be heard on the accusation.
   (B)   If a person accused of violating this chapter so requests, a hearing
shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall be published and provided
to the accused violator. If no request for a hearing is received by the City
Clerk/Administrator within ten working days of the date of the notice, the
right to a hearing shall be deemed waived and the penalty shall be final.
   (C)   The City Council shall serve as the hearing officer.
   (D)   If the hearing officer determines that a violation of this chapter did
occur, that decision, along with the hearing officer's reasons for finding a
violation together with the penalty to be imposed, shall be recorded in
writing, a copy of which shall be provided to the accused violator. Likewise,
if the hearing officer finds that no violation occurred or finds grounds for
not imposing any penalty, the findings shall be recorded and a copy provided to
the acquitted accused violator.
   (E)   Appeals of any decision of the hearing officer shall be made to the
County District Court.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from seeking
prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of this chapter. If the
city elects to seek misdemeanor prosecution, no administrative penalty shall be
imposed.
   (G)   Each violation, and every day in which a violation occurs or
continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-26-1998)
§ 112.12 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco related devices to a minor as part of a lawfully recognized
religious, spiritual or cultural ceremony. It shall be an affirmative defense
to the violation of this chapter for a person to have reasonably relied on
proof of age as described by state law.
(Ord. 101, passed 2-26-1998)
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
113.01   Pool halls and billiard tables
   
113.02   Public dancing places
§ 113.01 POOL HALLS AND BILLIARD TABLES.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall keep for public use or hire
within the city limits any billiard table, pool table or bowling alley unless a
license therefor shall first have been obtained as provided in this section.
   (B)   Application for a license shall be made to the City Clerk/
Administrator on a form supplied by the city. The application shall state the
full name and address of the applicant and the location of the building and the
part intended to be used by the applicant under the application with the Clerk/
Administrator. It shall be presented to the City Council for its consideration,
and if granted by the Council, a license shall be issued by the City Clerk/
Administrator upon the payment of the required fee.
   (C)   The fees to be paid for the licenses shall be as set by Council from
time to time. All licenses shall be for a period of one year and shall expire
on December 31 next after its issuance. For any license issued after December
31 in any year, a pro rata fee shall be charged. Every license shall be kept
conspicuously posted about the place for which the license is issued and shall
be exhibited to any person upon request.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any pool or billiard
parlor or public bowling alley to permit the playing of said games between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any week day, nor before 9:00 a.m. on
Sunday morning.
   (E)   Every license may be revoked by the Council for the violation of any
of the provisions of this section if the licensee has been given reasonable
notice and an opportunity to be heard.
(Ord. 49, passed 9-28-1961; Am. Ord. 51, passed 12-6-1962) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 PUBLIC DANCING PLACES.
   (A)   Regulation of public dances. All public dances held in this city shall
be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PUBLIC DANCE. Any dance where the general public may participate, whether
or not a charge for admission for dancing is made.
      PUBLIC DANCING PLACE. Any room or space or other area, whether indoors or
outside, which is open to the general public for the purpose of participating
in public dancing.
   (C)   Permits. No person shall conduct a public dance in this city unless a
permit has been obtained from the City Clerk/Administrator prior to the holding
of the dance. The fees for a permit shall be                         . In
addition to this fee, the applicant shall pay the cost to the city of providing
a police officer or officers to be present at the dance. The City Council shall
establish criteria for determining the number of police officers required to be
present at any dance. No permit shall be issued until the fee and the cost of
providing for the police officer or officers has been paid.
   (D)   Application. Any person desiring a permit to hold a public dance in
this city shall submit an application for a permit on the form provided by the
City Clerk/Administrator submitted to the City Clerk/Administrator at least ten
days before the date of the proposed dance. The application shall set forth the
name and address of the applicant who shall be the person responsible for
conducting the public dance and any business, committee or organization
sponsoring the dance, the place where the dance is to be held, the date of the
dance and the time of its beginning and end. Proof of all insurance required by
this section shall be submitted with the application and no permit shall be
issued until proof of insurance has been received. A request for any use of a
city building or other city property shall be included with the permit
application and not permit shall be issued until the fees for the use of the
city building or other city property have also been paid.
   (E)   Insurance. All insurance policies required for the event, including
any insurance required by law for the sale of alcoholic beverages, shall list
the city as a named insured and provide a provision to defend, indemnify and
hold harmless the city and any of its employees from any claims arising from
the event.
   (F)   Location. The applicant shall make sure that adequate parking is
available for the persons wishing to attend the dance and make sure that the
location is safe an accessible. This information shall also be provided to the
City Clerk/Administrator before a permit shall be issued.
   (G)   Permit to be posted. When a permit is issued, the holder of the permit
shall post the permit in a prominent location on the premises on which the
dance is to be held during the time the dance is occurring. The applicant shall
be present at all times while the dance is occurring.
   (H)   Liquor license required. No person shall give, hold, conduct or permit
any public dance where liquor will be served, as defined in M.S. Ch. 340A, as
it may be amended from time to time, without obtaining a license from the city.
   (I)   Police officer presence. No public dance shall occur without at least
once police officer, or more if more are required under the criteria
established by the City Council, present at the public dancing place during the
duration of the dance and after the dance, until all of the participants have
left the public dancing place.
   (J)   Hours. No public dance shall occur between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
noon.
   (K)   Minors denied admission. No person under the age of 21 shall be
allowed to be present by the permit holder or any police officer at a public
dance where alcohol is sold or consumed, unless accompanied by a parent or
guardian.
   (L)   Certain behavior prohibited. No person present at any public dance
shall engage in any disorderly conduct as defined by M.S. § 609.72, as it may
be amended from time to time, and any disorderly person shall be immediately
removed from the dance by the police officer present at the public dancing
place. Should a substantial number of persons at the public dance engage in
disorderly conduct, the police officer present shall terminate the dance and
remove all persons from the public dancing place.
   (M)   Lighting. In order to protect the safety of persons attending a public
dance, public dancing places shall be adequately illuminated and dancing
therein while lights are extinguished, dimmed or turned low so as to give
inadequate or imperfect illumination is hereby prohibited. All exit areas shall
be illuminated at all times during the public dance with light having intensity
of not less than one footcandle at floor level. Illumination of less than 0.5
footcandles in any area where dancing is occurring, permitted or encouraged is
prohibited.
   (N)   Noise. All public dances shall be subject to the provisions of any
noise ordinance of this city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
   
114.01   Purpose and findings
   
114.02   Obscene materials
   
114.03   Application of laws
   
114.04   Definitions
   
114.05   Classification
   
114.06   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
114.07   License required
   
114.08   Issuance of license
   
114.09   Inspection
   
114.10   Expiration of license
   
114.11   Regulation of sexually oriented businesses
   
114.12   Suspension/revocation
   
114.13   Transfer of license
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious location and concentration of sexually
oriented businesses within the city. The provisions of this chapter have
neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the
content of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials.
Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny
access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually
oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor
effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene
material.
   (B)   Findings. The findings set forth in Ordinance 2003-127 are
incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 2003-127, passed 1-16-2003)
§ 114.02 OBSCENE MATERIALS.
   It is not the intent of the City Council in enacting this chapter, or any
provisions thereof, to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene
material, and the City Council recognizes that state law prohibits the
distribution of certain materials and expects and encourages law enforcement
officials to enforce state obscenity statutes against such illegal activities
within the city.
(Ord. 2003-127, passed 1-16-2003)
§ 114.03 APPLICATION OF LAWS.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to authorize, legalize, or permit the
establishment, operation, or maintenance of any business, building, or use
which violates any city ordinance or any statute of the State of Minnesota
regarding public nuisances, unlawful or indecent exposure, sexual conduct,
lewdness, obscene or harmful matter, or the exhibition or public display
thereof.
(Ord. 2003-127, passed 1-16-2003)
§ 114.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated, slug operated or for any form of consideration, or
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture
machines, projectors, video or digital disc players or other image producing
devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at
any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.  
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as a principal purpose, offers
for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion picture, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations that are characterized by the depiction
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for use
in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale or rental of material depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and still be
categorized as adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video store.
Other business purposes will not serve to exempt commercial establishments from
being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store, if more than 10% of the inventory, stock or publicly displayed
merchandise consists of the kinds of merchandise described above or more than
10% of the retail floor space (not including areas not open to customers, such
as basements, offices, store rooms, and restrooms) is devoted to the sale or
rental of such merchandise.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment that regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nude; or
      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the exposure of specified
anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction of or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas and has a sign visible from the public
right-of-way that advertises the availability of this type of photographic
reproductions; or
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (2)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown that are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or semi-nude or live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full-time, part-time or contract basis, whether or not
the person is designated an employee, independent contractor, agent or
otherwise and whether or not the person is paid a salary, wage or other
compensation by the operator of the business. Employee does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person; or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Means and includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity, or who displays specified anatomical areas and is provided to
be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. NUDE
MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the State of
Minnesota or a college, junior college or university supported entirely or in
part by public taxation; a private college or university which maintains or
operates educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college,
junior college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a
structure:
      (1)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and
      (2)   Wherein order to participate in a class, a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the premises
at any one time.
   NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male
genitals in a discernible turgid state.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio or sexual encounter
center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Means:
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Means any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; engaging in organized
criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child; gambling; or
distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of other states or countries;
      (2)   For which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant or a person residing with the
applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Means any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts; or
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, or copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or
      (3)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in (1) and (2) above.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Means and
includes any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business; or
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership control.
(Ord. 2003-127, passed 1-16-2003)
§ 114.05 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. 2003-127, passed 1-16-2003)
§ 114.06 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   (1)   The sexually oriented business shall be located at least 525
feet away from:
         (a)   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building or portion of a
building or structure which is used for religious worship or related religious
activities;
         (b)   The boundary of any residentially zoned land, whether in the
city, in an adjoining city, or within an unincorporated area;
         (c)   Any public park, or recreational area, or property zoned,
planned, or otherwise designated for such use by city action, including but not
limited to a park, playground, nature trails, swimming pool, athletic field,
basketball or tennis courts, or other similar public land within the city which
is under the control, operation, or management of the city or park and
recreation authorities;
         (d)   Any public or private educational facility including but not
limited to child day care facilities, libraries, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools. This category of uses does not
include vocational or professional institutions of higher education including
but not limited to community or junior colleges, colleges and universities;
         (e)   Youth-oriented establishments which are characterized by any or
all of the following: (i) the establishment advertises in a manner that
identifies the establishment as catering to or providing services primarily for
minors; or (ii) a substantial number of minors regularly patronize, congregate
or assemble at the establishment; or
         (f)   Any boys club, girls club, or similar youth organization.
      (2)   The uses and zones set forth in divisions (a) through (f) of this
section shall be collectively known as sensitive uses. The distance between a
sexually oriented business and a sensitive use shall be made in a straight
line, without regard to the intervening structures or objects, from the closest
exterior wall of the building or structure, or a portion of the building or
structure, in which the sexually oriented business is located to the boundary
of the property on which the building or structure, or portion of the building
or structure, in which the sensitive use occurs or is located.
   (B)   The sexually oriented business shall be located at least 525 feet away
from another sexually oriented business, whether in the city, in an adjoining
city, or within an unincorporated area. The distance between any two sexually
oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to the
intervening structures or objects or political boundaries, from the closest
exterior wall of the building or structure, or portion of the building or
structure, in which each sexually oriented business is located.
   (C)   If any portion of the building or structure in which the sexually
oriented business is located fails to meet the distance criteria set forth
above, the entire building or structure shall be ineligible for a sexually
oriented business use.
(Ord. 2003-127, passed 1-16-2003)
§ 114.07 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented business
without a valid sexually oriented business license issued by the city pursuant
to this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
city.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as to enable the city to determine whether
the applicant meets the qualifications established in this chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, the person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 20% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under the following section and each applicant shall be considered a
licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   The completed application for a sexually oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit proof that he or she is 18 years of age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and capacity
of all officers, directors and principal stockholders, and the name of the
registered corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service
of process;
         (d)   The name of the owner of the property where to be located; if a
corporation, then the names of the principal owners of corporation.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant; he or she must state (i) the
sexually oriented business's fictitious name and (ii) submit the required
registration documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity as defined in this chapter,
and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place, and
jurisdiction of each.
      (4)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
had a previous license under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented
business ordinances from another city or county denied, suspended or revoked,
including the name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the
permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial,
suspension or revocation, and whether the applicant or a person residing with
the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director or
principal stockholder of a corporation that is licensed under this chapter
whose license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the
name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was
denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or
revocation.
      (5)   Whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant holds
any other licenses under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented
business ordinance from another city or county and, if so, the names and
locations of the other licensed businesses.
      (6)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone numbers, if
any.
      (7)   The applicant's mailing address and residential address.
      (8)   The applicant's driver's license number, Social Security number,
and/or his or her state or federally issued tax identification number.
      (9)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
      (10)   A straight-line drawing prepared within 30 days prior to
application depicting the property lines and the structures containing any
existing sexually oriented businesses within 525 feet of the property to be
licensed; the property lines of any established religious institution/
synagogue, school, or public park or recreation area within 525 feet of the
property to be licensed. For purposes of this section, a use shall be
considered existing or established if it is in existence at the time an
application is submitted. The drawing shall be reviewed by the Building
Inspector for accuracy. In the event of a dispute between the applicant and the
city as to the accuracy of the drawing, the Building Inspector may order the
applicant to provide a drawing with the information required under this
division prepared by a registered land surveyor.
      (11)   Copy of lease and all financing documents; all business related
contracts for supply of materials and consulting management.
(Ord. 2003-127, passed 1-16-2003)
§ 114.08 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of the application for a sexually oriented business
license the application shall be referred to the appropriate city departments
for an investigation to be made on the information as is contained in the
application. The application process shall be completed within 60 days from the
date the completed application is filed. After the investigation, the city
shall issue a license, unless it is determined by a preponderance of the
evidence that one or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant or a person with whom applicant is residing is overdue
in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against or
imposed upon him or her in relation to any business;
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
      (4)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been denied a license by the city to operate a sexually oriented business
within the preceding 12 months or whose license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
      (5)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity defined in this chapter;
      (6)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have not
been approved by the Health Department, Fire Department, and the building
official as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
      (7)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid;
      (8)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The license, if granted shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of the
sexually oriented business and the classification for which the license is
issued pursuant to §
114.05. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that they may be easily read at
any time.
   (C)   The Health Department, Fire Department, and the building official
shall complete their certification that the premises is in compliance or not in
compliance within 20 days of receipt of the application by the city.
   (D)   Every application for a sexually oriented business license (whether
for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied
by a $5,000 application and investigation fee. The applicant will be refunded
the portion of the application fee that is remaining after the investigation
and review process.
   (E)   In addition to the application and investigation fee required above,
every sexually oriented business that is granted a license (new or renewal)
shall pay to the city an annual non-refundable license fee of $1,000 within 30
days of license issuance or renewal.
   (F)   All license applications and fees shall be submitted to the City
Clerk/Administrator.
(Ord. 2003-127, passed 1-16-2003)
§ 114.09 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Health Department, Fire Department, Zoning Department, or other
city departments or agencies to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented
business for the purpose of insuring compliance with the law, at any time it is
occupied or open for business.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his agent or
employee commits a violation of this chapter if he or she refuses to permit the
lawful inspection of the premises at any time it is open for business.
(Ord. 2003-127, passed 1-16-2003)
§ 114.10 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided herein. Application for
renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the expiration date.
   (B)   When the city denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Ord. 2003-127, passed 1-16-2003)
§ 114.11 REGULATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   All licensed sexually oriented businesses shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter, all other applicable city ordinances, and all other
applicable federal, state and local laws.
   (B)   No sign shall contain any message or language which identifies
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined herein.
   (C)   No merchandise, photographs, or pictures of the products or
entertainment on the premises shall be displayed in window areas or any area
where they can be viewed from the sidewalk or public right-of-way adjoining the
building or structure in which the sexually oriented business is located.
   (D)   All signs shall comply with the requirement for size and number for
commercial zoning districts.
   (E)   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain
open at any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays, and 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sundays.
   (F)   A person commits a violation of this chapter if the person knowingly
allows a person under the age of 18 years on the premises of a sexually
oriented business.
(Ord. 2003-127, passed 1-16-2003)
§ 114.12 SUSPENSION/REVOCATION.
   (A)   The city shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days if
it determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
      (2)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   The city shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension occurs and
the license has been suspended within the preceding 12 months.
   (C)   The city shall revoke a license if it determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      (5)   Except in the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation,
or other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city, county, or state
for any taxes or fees past due.
   (D)   When the city revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one
year, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license
for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If, subsequent to
revocation, the city finds that the basis for the revocation has been corrected
or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90 days have
elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
   (E)   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of the administrative action in any
court of competent jurisdiction. The administrative action shall be promptly
reviewed by the court.
(Ord. 2003-127, passed 1-16-2003)
§ 114.13 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 2003-127, passed 1-16-2003)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, neglects, refuses to comply with, or assists or
participates in any way in the violation of any of the provisions or
requirements of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and is subject to a
penalty of 90 days in jail and/or a $700 fine for each violation. Each day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2003-127, passed 1-16-2003)
CHAPTER 115: JUNK AND MOTOR VEHICLE SALVAGE FACILITIES
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Storage of junk and junk vehicles
   
115.03   Repair, and the like, of vehicles restricted
   
115.04   Purpose and intent
   
115.05   License required
   
115.06   General conditions
   
115.07   Site management plan
   
115.08   General operating practices
   
115.09   Site requirements
   
115.10   Inspections and monitoring
   
115.11   Licenses
   
115.12   Closure
   
115.13   Compliance
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. The term HAZARDOUS WASTE shall have the meaning prescribed
by M.S. § 116.06, subd. 11, as it may be amended from time to time.
   JUNK. Shall include, but not be limited to; old or scrap copper, brass,
rope, rags, batteries, paper, synthetic or organic, trash, tires, rubber
debris, solid or liquid waste, junk vehicles, dismantled vehicles, parts from
vehicles, machinery, machinery parts, iron, steel and other old or scrap
ferrous or nonferrous material.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Shall include any vehicle, motor vehicle, trailer or semi-
trailer, as defined by M.S. § 169.01, as it may be amended from time to time,
which is not in an operable condition. An abandoned motor vehicle as defined by
M.S. § 168.02, as it may be amended from time to time, shall  be considered a
junk vehicle. All vehicles, motor vehicles, trailers or semi-trailers which are
not properly licensed for operation on public highways within the State of
Minnesota are also considered junk vehicles.
   MOTOR VEHICLE SALVAGE FACILITIES AND/OR JUNKYARDS. The storing or keeping of
two or more junk vehicles, or ten or more pieces of junk.
   PERSON. Any person, firm or corporation, or group, however organized, and
the singular includes the plural.
   RACING CAR. Any motor vehicle designed or intended for operation on a
speedway, racetrack, or other facility used or designed for high speed contests
between two or more vehicles or for timing of speed.
   STOCK CAR. Any motor vehicle of standard design and construction which is
modified, adapted or altered in any manner to increase its speed or safety, and
designed or intended for operation on a speedway, racetrack, or other facility
used or designed for high speed contests between two or more vehicles or for
timing of speed.
§ 115.02 STORAGE OF JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES.
   No person or corporation shall park, keep, place or store, or permit the
parking or storage of a stock car, racing car, junk vehicle, or junk, refuse,
yardwaste or recyclable materials on public lands, streets or alleys, or on any
private lands or premises unless it shall be within an enclosed garage or
storage building on such private premises except as provided in this chapter.
§ 115.03 REPAIR, AND THE LIKE, OF VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   No person or corporation shall service, repair, replace parts or do
maintenance work on a stock car, racing car, or junk vehicle on public lands or
streets, or on any private lands or premises unless it shall be within an
enclosed garage or storage building on private premises.
§ 115.04 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   Motor vehicle salvage facilities and/or junkyards process materials and
debris contaminated by petroleum and chemical products, generate waste tires,
batteries, and other materials requiring special disposal methods, and store
accumulations of materials and debris with the potential of contamination of
soil, ground water and surface waters. It is in the best interests of the
public's health, safety and welfare to regulate their operations for the
protection of the environment, to preserve the public's health, and guard
against the danger of fire.
§ 115.05 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate and/or maintain a motor
vehicle salvage facility and/or junkyard within the city without a valid
junkyard or auto dismantling facility license. Licenses shall not be assignable
or transferable by the applicant.
   (B)   An application for a motor vehicle salvage facility and/or junkyard
shall be made to the City Clerk/Administrator on a form supplied by the city.
The application fee, as herein specified, shall accompany the application. The
Clerk/Administrator shall present the application to the City Council for
consideration, and if approved and granted by the City Council a license shall
be issued by the Clerk/Administrator.
§ 115.06 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   Each application for a motor vehicle salvage facility and/or junkyard
license shall include the following information:
   (A)   The name, date of birth, social security number and street address of
the applicant and the full name of the business which the facility will operate
under;
   (B)   The street address and legal description of the premises upon which
the motor vehicle salvage facility and/or junkyard is to be operated;
   (C)   The applicant must present evidence of ownership of the property or
the name, street address, and written consent of the owner of the premises, to
use the premises for the purposes detailed on the application;
   (D)   The date of issuance and status of the conditional use permit, if
applicable, for use of the premises for the purposes detailed on the
application;
   (E)   A copy of a current industrial storm water permit from the Minnesota
Pollution Control agency for the site;
   (F)   A copy of the appropriate watershed approval, if applicable;
   (G)   A copy of a current county hazardous waste generator's license for the
site, if necessary;
   (H)   A site management plan, as herein defined;
   (I)   Proof of general liability insurance in an amount not less than
$300,000;
   (J)   A copy of any licenses from the Department of Public Safety for
selling used parts or vehicles;
   (K)   Federal and state sales tax identification numbers;
   (L)   In addition, no license will be issued until the applicant agrees in
writing to hold the city harmless from all damages and claims of damages which
may arise by reason of any negligence of the applicant or the applicant's
agents or employees while engaged in the performance of the license and will
indemnify the city for the amount of all claims.
§ 115.07 SITE MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Each person holding a motor vehicle salvage facility and/or junkyard
license issued by the city shall maintain a current site management plan on
file with the City Clerk/Administrator. The plan must be updated annually to
accurately reflect the site conditions.
   (B)   At a minimum, the site management plan shall include the following:
      (1)   A site sketch showing the general location and dimensions of all
fire lanes; buildings, storage areas of hazardous, explosive or flammable
materials; waste piles of ten or more tires, location of all fire
extinguishers, and site entrance and exit points;
      (2)   A fluid management plan describing in detail the processing of
hazardous or flammable fluids, to include fluid drainage, storage, proof of
proper disposal, and spill containment and clean up;
      (3)   A plan for the storage, processing, and disposal of batteries,
tires, and parts containing hazardous materials. Proof of proper disposal will
be required;
      (4)   The location and depth of all wells registered with County Public
Health Department, located within 1,000 feet of the property lines of the motor
vehicle salvage facility and/or junkyard.
§ 115.08 GENERAL OPERATING PRACTICES.
   Any motor vehicle salvage facility and/or junkyard located in the city must
operate in conformance with the following provisions:
   (A)   No motor vehicle salvage facility and/or junkyard shall be allowed to
become a nuisance or shall be operated in such a manner so as to become
injurious to the health, safety, or welfare of the community or any residents.
   (B)   The facility operation shall be in compliance with the Motor Vehicle,
Salvage Facility Environmental Compliance Manual and other applicable Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency rules.
   (C)   Vehicle crushing shall be conducted on an impermeable surface with
adequate spill control equipment. Waste fluids shall be properly managed
according to Minnesota Pollution Control Agency guidelines.
   (D)   Disassembly of any vehicle, or component thereof, which allow for the
leakage of fluids, will be completed within a covered structure with an
impermeable floor.
   (E)   Draining of vehicle fluids will be completed within a covered
structure with an impermeable floor; with spill control equipment, and
absorbent material immediately available to contain any spill which may occur.
   (F)   Parts cleaning operations shall be conducted in accordance with
current Minnesota Pollution Control Agency parts-cleaning methods and
wastewater management guidelines.
   (G)   Drained vehicle parts and cores will be stored in closed bins or in a
covered area to minimize exposure to precipitation. Vehicle parts which pose a
risk to the environment including, but not limited to, lead parts, mercury
switches, catalytic converters, and airbags, shall be removed and stored in
accordance with the current Minnesota Pollution Control Agency guidelines and
recycled through an approved recycling facility.
   (H)   Battery storage. All batteries must be stored on a nonreactive, curbed
and impermeable surface without a floor drain and protected from accumulations
of rain, snow and drain water, or stored within a covered, non-reactive,
impermeable container.
   (I)   Tire storage. Waste tire storage shall be kept in one location and
shall not exceed 500 tires or the volume permitted in one semi-trailer.
   (J)   Uncrushed junk and junk vehicle storage. Uncrushed junk and junk
vehicles shall be stored in piles not exceeding one vehicle in height and shall
be so arranged to permit emergency access.
   (K)   Hazardous material storage. Flammable and hazardous materials shall be
stored in compliance with the Minnesota Uniform Fire Code in covered and
appropriately marked containers suitable to the contents in storage. Adequate
aisle space shall be provided for access by emergency personnel and for spill
containment and cleanup equipment.
   (L)   Antifreeze disposal. Antifreeze shall be collected and recycled, or
disposed of through other Minnesota Pollution Control Agency approved methods.
Antifreeze shall not be discharged to land, water, any septic system, or public
sewer system.
   (M)   Refrigerants (CFCs). Refrigerants shall be recovered and recycled or
reclaimed by methods approved by Minnesota Pollution Control Agency:
   (N)   Oil filter disposal. Used oil filters shall be recycled, disposed of
as hazardous waste, or after being drained and tested by a professional testing
laboratory, disposed of as solid waste. Oil filters may remain attached to
engines or motors when sold to a second party or transported as scrap, so long
as the receiving person will accept the filter.
   (O)   Battery cable disposal. Lead battery cable ends and heater cores shall
be removed from vehicles prior to crushing and shall be recycled separately,
unless accepted as a vehicle component by a second person.
   (P)   Other recyclables. Other recyclables designated by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency shall be disposed of as required by current Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency guidelines.
   (Q)   On-site disposal. On-site disposal of any material is prohibited,
except under proper license or permit.
   (R)   Hazardous spills. Spills of oil, lubricants, or other hazardous
material shall be promptly contained, cleaned, and disposed of in accordance
with current Minnesota Pollution Agency guidelines.
   (S)   Recycling petroleum products. Used oil, including engine oil,
transmission fluid, hydraulic oil, and similar petroleum products, shall be
recycled or disposed of through Minnesota Pollution Control Agency approved
methods.
§ 115.09 SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Fencing. Fencing shall be installed in accordance with city
specifications on the perimeter of all motor vehicle salvage facilities and/or
junkyards at least 8 feet high and not to exceed 20 feet in height. The
enclosure shall be maintained in good condition at all times and constructed so
that no dust or other material may pass through. Any such fence shall not have
more than one opening upon any public street and each opening shall not be more
than 25 feet wide and shall be equipped with a substantial, solid tight gate or
door of the same height as such fence or wall, and the same shall be kept
securely closed at all times when such establishment is not open for business.
No junk or storage of any description shall be kept, displayed or exhibited on
the outside or protrude above such fence.
   (B)   Emergency access. Adequate access shall be provided on site to ensure
fire protection throughout site. A minimum of a 20-foot wide access road shall
be provided to within 150 feet of all vehicle or vehicle parts storage areas.
The road shall be capable of supporting 35-ton emergency vehicles.
   (C)   Site access. Sites shall provide a driveway with a surface equal to
the street surface to extend from the street to the required screen fence.
   (D)   Parking stalls. A minimum of one parking stall per employee, one
parking stall per acre of outside storage, and one parking stall per 2,000
square feet of indoor storage shall be provided.
§ 115.10 INSPECTIONS AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Inspections by officials. In order to ensure compliance with the
license granted in this division, and as a condition for the issuance of the
license granted under this division, the applicant shall allow inspections at
reasonable and appropriate times by officials of the city or such consultants
as the city deems appropriate to retain.
   (B)   Monitoring wells. The Council may require that any licensee construct
and maintain, at the licensee's expense, ground water monitoring wells on the
premises of his or her motor vehicle salvage facility and/or junkyard and
conduct tests to determine the impact the facility is having on the city's
ground water. Where appropriate, soil sampling may be requited in place of or
in addition to ground water monitoring. In determining whether to require
monitoring wells, the Council shall:
      (1)   Evaluate the condition of site, hazardous waste storage and
disposal practices, evidence of spills or vehicle fluid drainage problems;
      (2)   Consider the specific geographic, topographical and other features
of the operation as they pertain to the facilities' potential to contaminating
the city's ground water;
      (3)   Consider the professional recommendation of the City Engineer, or
other qualified individual or firm as to the necessity or desirability of
constructing monitoring wells and the frequency of required tests at the
facility.
   (C)   It is the duty of every person to notify the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency of any spill or discharge of a substance in accordance with M.S.
§ 115.061, as it may be amended from time to time. Any person holding a motor
vehicle salvage facility and/or junkyard license from the city shall also
report to the city, in writing, the time, date, location, cause, and method of
cleanup of any hazardous material spill reported to the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency.
§ 115.11 LICENSES.
   (A)   Licenses shall be issued under this division for a period not to
exceed one year.
   (B)   Display of license. Every license shall be kept conspicuously posted
about the place for which it is issued, along with the telephone numbers of the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Spill Unit and the Fire Department. Licenses
shall be exhibited to any person upon request.
   (C)   License fee. The fee for every motor vehicle salvage facility and/or
junkyard license shall be an amount established by Council resolution per year.
Such fees do not include costs to be paid by the licensee in the design,
supervision; and construction of any ground water monitoring wells required as
part of this license.
   (D)   Hearing on granting, denial, renewal, or revocation of license. Every
license may be revoked by the Council for violation of any provision of this
section, after the licensee has been given reasonable notice and the
opportunity to be heard, or upon any change in zoning or conditional use permit
status of the premises whereby motor vehicle salvage facilities and/or
junkyards are prohibited. There shall be no refund of any license fee, or any
portion thereof upon revocation.
§ 115.12 CLOSURE.
   Prior to discontinuing the motor vehicle salvage facility and/or junkyard
operation a plan must be submitted documenting a plan to remove all outside
storage of materials and vehicles, structures, fencing, hazardous wastes and
documenting the owners'/operators' responsibilities for full site and pollution
cleanup.
§ 115.13 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Any person acting as a motor vehicle salvage or junk dealer within the
city on the effective date of this code shall have a period of two years after
such effective date to comply with provisions of this division.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor as defined by state law and subject to the penalties in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 116: MOBILE FOOD UNITS
Section
   
116.01   Purpose and intent
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   License requirements
   
116.04   Performance standards
§ 116.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   To allow and regulate mobile food units within the City of Lonsdale.
(Ord. 2022-311, passed 3-31-2022)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT. A self-contained food and beverage service operation that
is used to store, prepare, display, or serve food intended for individual
portion service that is: a) a vehicle- mounted unit, either motorized or
trailered; b) readily movable without disassembling for transport to another
location; c) a nonmotorized vehicle self-propelled by the operator; or d) a
mobile food unit as defined in M.S. § 157.15, Subdivision 9, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2022-311, passed 3-31-2022)
§ 116.03 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   License required. No person shall operate a mobile food unit in the
city without a valid license required under this chapter. Mobile food units
need not obtain a transient merchant license under City Code
Chapter 111.
   (B)   Application form. An application for a license under this chapter
shall be made on a form provided by the city.
   (C)   Insurance. A certificate of insurance that has been issued to the
applicant or mobile food unit owner by an insurance company authorized to do
business in the State of Minnesota verifying that the applicant is insured
against claims arising out of all operations of such applicant under this
chapter for the sum of at least $1,000,000 against liability for bodily
injuries and for at least $1,000,000 against liability for damage or
destruction of property. The City of Lonsdale shall be named as an additional
insured for any mobile food units on city property.
   (D)   Private property. Mobile food unit sales conducted on private property
shall require written consent of the private property owner.
   (E)   Public property. Mobile food unit sales conducted upon public property
or within a public easement/right-of-way shall require approval from the
appropriate government unit (federal, state, county, city, school district).
   (F)   State licensing. Mobile food units shall provide a copy of any license
or permit issued by the relevant State of Minnesota agency required to operate
a mobile food unit.
   (G)   License fee. The fee shall be in an amount determined by City Council
resolution/fee schedule.
(Ord. 2022-311, passed 3-31-2022)
§ 116.04 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   Public property. Mobile food units shall only be allowed within the
parking areas at Jaycee Park, Trcka Park, or Trenda Memorial Park Exception:
Mobile food units may be located on public property, a public road, or right-
of-way, so long as it is registered along with a city approved special event.
      (2)   Private property. Mobile food trucks may be located on private
property.
   (B)   License duration. Mobile food units shall not operate more than 21
days annually within the city limits of Lonsdale.
   (C)   Hours of operation. Mobile foods units shall operate only between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. unless associated with a city approved
special event.
   (D)   Laws. Mobile food units shall comply with all federal, state, and
local laws.
   (E)   Traffic. Mobile food units shall not interfere with vehicle and
pedestrian circulation or emergency vehicle access and shall comply with all
traffic and parking laws. Any mobile food unit located on a public roadway
shall position the unit with the main serving window faced toward the nearest
road edge/curb, unless said roadway is closed to traffic.
   (F)   Parking. There shall be adequate parking on the lot or public street
to provide space for the mobile food unit as well as satisfy all parking
requirements for the property. Any inactive mobile food unit parked off-street
shall comply with commercial vehicle regulations per §
153.077.
   (G)   Drive-through prohibited. Mobile food units shall not have a drive-
through.
   (H)   Signage. Signage shall comply with §
153.079(O).
   (I)   Nuisance. Mobile food units shall not use any outside sound amplifying
equipment, televisions, or similar visual entertainment devices, lights, or
noisemakers such as bells, horns, or whistles.
   (J)   Refuse. All waste, garbage, litter, and refuse shall be contained in
leak proof, nonabsorbent containers which shall be kept covered with tight-
fitting lids and properly disposed of by the license holder or event organizer.
No waste, garbage, litter or refuse shall be dumped or drained onto sidewalks,
streets, gutters, or storm drains. Any use of on-site public trash receptacles/
dumpsters shall require approval by the city.
   (K)   Power supply. Mobile food units shall provide an independent power
supply that is screened from public view if it is not located on the food
truck.
   (L)   License displayed. The approved license shall be prominently displayed
on the mobile food unit for the duration of the event.
(Ord. 2022-311, passed 3-31-2022)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
         
131.   SEXUAL OFFENDERS AND SEXUAL PREDATORS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
   
130.02   Discharging firearms
   
130.03   Vagrancy
   
130.04   Cannabis use within public property and public places
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   For all persons under the age of 18 years and at least 16 years
of age, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day.
         (b)   For all persons under the age of 16 years, between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to
a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age.
      OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
      PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to streets, highways, parks,
playgrounds and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses,
office buildings, transport facilities, shops or businesses.
      REMAIN.
         (a)   To linger or stay; or
         (b)   To fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to remain in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian of a minor to
knowingly permit, or by insufficient control allow, the minor to remain in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
curfew hours. The term KNOWINGLY includes knowledge which a parent or guardian
should reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in
the legal custody of that parent or guardian.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator or any employee of an
establishment to knowingly allow a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the operation of
the curfew that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home
from an employment activity without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor's presence; or
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor.
   (D)   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the
public place and may demand proof of age. The officer shall not issue a
citation or make an arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably
believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other
circumstances, no defense in division (C) above is present.
(Ord. 91, passed 6-30-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to aim any gun, pistol, revolver
or other firearm, whether it is loaded or not, at or towards any human being or
to willfully discharge any firearm, airgun or other weapon or throw any deadly
weapon in any public place or any place where there is any person to be
endangered, although no injury results.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm, airgun,
air-rifle or bow and arrow, upon, over or across any public road or while
within the limits of the right-of-way of any public road or railroad right-of-
way.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to have any rifle, shotgun, airgun or air-rifle
in a motor vehicle, except it be contained in a case and unloaded in both the
barrel and the magazines or unloaded and carried in the trunk of the car.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm within 1,000 feet of any
platted land in the city.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to shoot at any marked target or clay pigeon with
any shotgun, rifle, pistol or other firearm upon the property of another
without first obtaining permission in writing from the owner.
   (F)   This section does not apply to officers, employees, or agents of law
enforcement agencies or the armed forces of this state or the United States, or
private detectives or protective agents, to the extent that those persons are
authorized by law to carry firearms and are acting in the scope of their
official duties.
(Ord. 61, passed 6-24-1976) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 VAGRANCY.
   M.S. § 609.725, as it may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted by
reference.
§ 130.04 CANNABIS USE WITHIN PUBLIC PROPERTY AND PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Property that is generally open to or accessible by the
public, except on those premises licensed by the State of Minnesota to permit
on-site consumption.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property, real and personal, that is owned, managed, or
controlled by the city, including but not limited to city buildings and all the
land thereon, parking lots, parks, pathways, trails, sidewalks and the traveled
portion of the city’s right-of-way and any city personal property, such as
motor-vehicles, city equipment and the like.
      CANNABIS FLOWER, CANNABIS, LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES, HEMP DERIVED
CONSUMER PRODUCTS. As defined in M.S. § 342.01 (enacted under Minnesota Laws
2023).
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products or
hemp-derived products within public property or in a public place.
   (C)   Penalty. A violation of this section is a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2023-320, passed 9-14-2023)
CHAPTER 131: SEXUAL OFFENDERS AND SEXUAL PREDATORS
Section
   
131.01   Findings and intent
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Residence prohibition; penalties; exceptions
   
131.04   Renting real property; penalties
§ 131.01 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)    Repeat sexual offenders, sexual offenders who use physical violence,
and sexual offenders who prey on children are sexual predators who present an
extreme threat to the public safety. Sexual offenders are extremely likely to
use physical violence and to repeat their offenses, and most sexual offenders
commit many offenses, have many more victims than are ever reported, and are
prosecuted for only a fraction of their crimes. This makes the cost of sexual
offender victimization to society at large, while incalculable, clearly
exorbitant.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter to serve the city’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city by creating areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers wherein certain sexual offenders
and sexual predators are prohibited from establishing temporary or permanent
residence.
(Ord. 2017-274, passed 2-23-2017)
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESIGNATED OFFENDER. Any person who has been convicted of a designated
sexual offense, regardless of whether adjudication has been withheld, in which
the victim of the offense was less than 16 years of age, or has been
categorized as a level III sex offender under M.S. § 244.052 or successor
statute.
   DESIGNATED SEXUAL OFFENSE. A conviction, adjudication of delinquency,
commitment under M.S. Chapter 253B, or admission of guilt under oath without
adjudication involving any of the following offenses: M.S. §§ 609.342; 609.343;
609.344; 609.345; 609.352; 609.365; 617.23; 617.246; 617.247; 617.293;
successor statutes; or a similar offense from another state.
   PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where the person abides, lodges, or resides for
14 or more consecutive days.
   TEMPORARY RESIDENCE. A place where the person abides, lodges, or resides for
a period of 14 or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year and which
is not the person’s permanent address, or a place where the person routinely
abides, lodges, or resides for a period of four or more consecutive or
nonconsecutive days in any month and which is not the person’s permanent
residence.
(Ord. 2017-274, passed 2-23-2017)
§ 131.03 RESIDENCE PROHIBITION; PENALTIES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any designated
offender to establish a permanent residence or temporary residence:
      (1)   Within 1,000 feet of any school, licensed daycare, park, or
playground; or
      (2)   Within 1,000 feet of any place of worship which provides regular
educational programs (i.e., Sunday school), or other places where children are
known to congregate.
   (B)   Prohibited activity. It is unlawful for any designated offender to
participate in a holiday event involving children under 18 years of age, such
as distributing candy or other items to children on Halloween, wearing a Santa
Claus costume around Christmas, or wearing an Easter Bunny costume for Easter.
Holiday events in which the offender is the parent or guardian of the children
involved, and no nonfamilial children are present, are exempt from this
subsection.
   (C)   Measurement of distance.
      (1)   For purposes of deterinining the minimum distance separation, the
requirement shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer
property line of the permanent residence or temporary residence to the nearest
outer property line of a school, licensed daycare, park, playground, place of
worship, or other place where children regularly congregate.
      (2)   The city shall maintain an associated reference map showing
prohibited locations for designated offenders to reside as defined by this
chapter. The reference map shall be updated as needed, and in no way shall an
outdated map invalidate this intent of this chapter.
   (D)   Penalties. Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in section of this code. Each day a person maintains a residence in
violation of this chapter constitutes a separate violation.
   (E)   Exceptions. A designated offender residing within a prohibited area as
described in division (A) of this section does not commit a violation of this
section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   The person established the permanent residence or temporary
residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to M.S. §§
243.166, 243.167, or successor statute, prior to July 10, 2006.
      (2)   The person was a minor when he/she committed the offense and was
not convicted as an adult.
      (3)   The person is a minor.
      (4)   The school or daycare within 1,000 feet of the person’s permanent
residence was opened after the person established the permanent residence or
temporary residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to
M.S.§§ 243.166 or 243.167.
      (5)   The residence is also the primary residence of the person’s
parents, grandparents, siblings, spouse, or children.
      (6)   The residence is a property owned or leased by the Minnesota
department of corrections.
(Ord. 2017-274, passed 2-23-2017)
§ 131.04 RENTING REAL PROPERTY; PENALTIES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to let or rent any place, structure, or part thereof,
trailer or other conveyance, with the knowledge that it will be used as a
permanent residence or temporary residence by any person prohibited from
establishing such permanent residence or temporary residence pursuant to this
chapter, if such place, structure, or part thereof, trailer or other
conveyance, is located within a prohibited location zone described in§
131.03(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   A property owner’s failure to comply with provisions of this section
shall constitute a violation of this section.
   (C)   If a property owner discovers or is informed that a tenant is a
designated offender after signing a lease or otherwise agreeing to let the
offender reside on the property, the owner or property manager shall evict the
offender in a timely manner, as determined by the Lonsdale Police Chief or his/
her designee.
(Ord. 2017-274, passed 2-23-2017)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
         
151.   FLOOD REGULATIONS
         
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
         
153.   ZONING
         
154.   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   State building code adopted
   
150.02   Uniform Fire Code adopted
   
150.03   Residence and principal building identification
§ 150.01 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Codes adopted by reference. The Minnesota State Building Code, as
adopted by the Commissioner of Labor and Industry pursuant to M.S. Ch. 326B,
including all of the amendments, rules and regulations established, adopted and
published from time to time by the Minnesota Commissioner of Labor and
Industry, through the Building Codes and Standards Unit is hereby adopted by
reference with the exception of the optional chapters, unless specifically
adopted in this code. The Minnesota State Building Code is hereby incorporated
in this code as if fully set out herein.
   (B)   Application, administration and enforcement.  
      (1)   The application, administration and enforcement of the code shall
be in accordance with Minnesota State Building Code. This code shall be
enforced within the extraterritorial limits permitted by M.S. § 326B.121, subd.
2(d), as it may be amended from time to time, when so established by this code.
      (2)   The code enforcement agency of the city is called the Building
Inspections Department. This code shall be enforced by the Minnesota Certified
Building Official designated by the city to administer the code in accordance
with M.S. § 326B.133, subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Permits and fees. The issuance of permits and the collection of fees
shall be as authorized in Minn. Rules Ch. 1300, as it may be amended from time
to time. Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the city. In addition, a surcharge
fee shall be collected on all permits issued for work governed by this code in
accordance with M.S. § 326B.148, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Violations and penalties. A violation of the code is a misdemeanor as
provided in M.S. § 326B.082, subd. 16, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Am. Ord. 2005-167, passed 3-31-2005; Am. Ord. 2010-236, passed 4-29-2010)
§ 150.02 UNIFORM FIRE CODE ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. §§ 88.16 to 88.22 and the Minnesota Uniform Fire
Code, Minn. Rules Ch. 1510, as these statutes and rules may be amended from
time to time, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter
as if fully set forth at this point.
(Am. Ord. 2005-167, passed 3-31-2005)
§ 150.03 RESIDENCE AND PRINCIPAL BUILDING IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is for the proper identification
of all houses and structures now existing or hereafter to be erected within the
city to improve the response time of police, fire, ambulance, and other
emergency services within the city. The official number, which shall be
obtained by the owner from the City Administrator’s Office, shall be placed and
maintained on each house or structure by its owner at or near the front or rear
entrances of the house or structure in a manner that the number may be easily
and clearly seen and read during the hours of darkness as well as daylight from
the public street.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURBSIDE MAILBOX. Any mailbox erected at the edge of a roadway or street
to be served by a United States Post Office carrier from a vehicle on any
public road, street or highway, exclusive of receptacles for newspapers
delivered by private carriers.
   (C)   Identification requirement.
      (1)   The approved house number to be placed and maintained on the house
or structure shall comply with the following specifications:
         (a)   House numbers should be located on the front of the house.
         (b)   House numbers should be the four inches in height.
         (c)   House numbers should be visible from the road.
         (d)   House number colors should contrast with the color of the house
so that they are easily readable.
      (2)   The approved house number to be placed on the curbside mailbox
shall comply with the following specifications:
         (a)   House number should be located on the front of the curbside
mailbox.
         (b)   House numbers should be at least one inch in height.
         (c)   House number colors should contrast with the color of the
curbside mailbox so that they are easily readable.
   (D)   Applicability. This section applies to all structures within the city.
   (E)   Violation and penalties. A violation of the code is a misdemeanor
punished as provided in §
10.99. Each day shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2005-167, passed 3-31-2005)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Permit requirements
   
151.02   Permit application
   
151.03   Duties of the Zoning Administrator
   
151.04   Review of permit application
   
151.05   Review of subdivision proposals
   
151.06   Water supply system
   
151.07   Sanitary sewage and waste disposal systems
   
151.08   Annexations and extraterritorial jurisdiction
   
151.09   Definitions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, improve,
move, or demolish any building or structure without first obtaining a
floodplain building permit for each building or structure from the City of
Lonsdale (“City”).
   (B)   No man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including
but not limited to buildings or other structures, fences, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, shall be commenced
until a floodplain building permit has been obtained from the designated
responsible person for each change.
   (C)   No manufactured home shall be placed on improved or unimproved real
estate without first obtaining a floodplain building permit for each
manufactured home from the designated responsible person.
   (D)   Ordinary minor repairs may be made with the approval of the Zoning
Administrator, or his/her designee, without a floodplain building permit,
provided that such repairs shall not violate provisions of these regulations or
the Building Code.
(Ord. 2012-253, passed 10-25-2012)
§ 151.02 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   To obtain a floodplain building permit, the applicant shall first file a
permit application on a form furnished for that purpose. The form must be
completed and submitted to the Zoning Administrator or
his/her designee with a fee established by the city fee schedule (as amended
from time-to-time) before the issuance of a permit will be considered.
(Ord. 2012-253, passed 10-25-2012)
§ 151.03 DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator, or his/her designee, is appointed as the
"person" responsible for receiving applications and examining the plans and
specifications for the proposed construction or development.
   (B)   After reviewing the application, the responsible person may require
any additional measures which are necessary to meet the minimum requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   The responsible person shall review proposed development to assure
that all necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies
from which approval is required by Federal or State law, including Section 404
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
(Ord. 2012-253, passed 10-25-2012)
§ 151.04 REVIEW OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Upon input from the City Engineer, the Zoning Administrator, or his/her
designee, shall review all floodplain building permit applications, to
determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from
flooding. If a proposed building site is in a flood prone area, all new
construction and substantial improvements (including the placement of
manufactured homes) shall be:
   (A)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent floatation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
   (B)   Constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage;
   (C)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (D)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding; and
   (E)   Reviewed by the Building Official/Inspector for compliance with the
State Building Code.
(Ord. 2012-253, passed 10-25-2012)
§ 151.05 REVIEW OF SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   Upon input from the City Engineer, the Zoning Administrator, or his/her
designee, shall review subdivision proposals and other proposed new development
to determine whether such proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a
subdivision proposal or other proposed new development is in a flood prone
area, any such proposal shall be reviewed to assure that:
   (A)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage within the flood prone area;
   (B)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure of flood hazard; and
   (D)   Subdivision of lands within flood prone areas may not be approved if
the cost of providing governmental services would impose an unrealistic
economic burden on the City of Lonsdale.
(Ord. 2012-253, passed 10-25-2012)
§ 151.06 WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.
   Upon input from the City Engineer and/or Public Works Director, the Zoning
Administrator, or his/her designee, shall require within flood prone areas, new
and replacement water supply systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
(Ord. 2012-253, passed 10-25-2012)
§ 151.07 SANITARY SEWAGE AND WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   Upon input from the City Engineer and/or Public Works Director, the Zoning
Administrator, or his/her designee, shall require within flood prone areas:
   (A)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems to be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from
the systems into flood waters; and
   (B)   On-site waste disposal systems to be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 2012-253, passed 10-25-2012)
§ 151.08 ANNEXATIONS AND EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The city shall not approve any development located in a Special Flood Hazard
Area (SFHA) outside the corporate limits unless such development or plat is in
the accordance with the following:
   (A)   A floodplain ordinance legally that meets the minimum federal (44 CFR
60.3), state (Minnesota Regulation Parts 6120.5000 through 6120.6200), and
local requirements for development within a Special Flood Hazard Area.
   (B)   The SFHA's of those parts of unincorporated Rice County (identified as
Rice County Unincorporated Areas 270646 on the FIRM) that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City of Lonsdale or that may be annexed
into the City of Lonsdale are generally identified as such on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) No. 27131C0125D (Panel 0125D) dated April 3, 2012
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
(Ord. 2012-253, passed 10-25-2012)
§ 151.09 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to real estate, including but not limited
to construction or reconstruction of buildings, installing manufactured homes
or travel trailers, installing utilities, construction of roads or bridges,
erection of levees, walls, or fences, drilling, mining, filling, dredging, and
storage of materials.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see FLOOD).
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural provisions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining insurance rates, it means
structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, new construction means structures for which the
start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   PERSON. Includes any individuals, corporation, partnership, association, or
any other entity, including State and local governments and agencies.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1 percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The
area may be designated as Zone A on the FHBM. After detailed ratemaking has
been completed in preparation for publication of the flood insurance rate map,
Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, Al-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30,
AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, or Vl-30, VE, or V. For purposes of these
regulations, the term "special flood hazard area" is synonymous in meaning with
the phrase "area of special flood hazard".
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including gas or liquid storage tanks, that is principally above ground. The
term includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers on site for more than
180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either, (a) before the improvement or repair is started, or (b) if
the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before the damage
occurred. For the purposes of this definition "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure regardless of the actual work
performed. The term does not, however, include either (1) any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure
safe living conditions; or (2) any alteration of a "historic structure",
provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued
designation as a historic structure.
(Ord. 2012-253, passed 10-25-2012)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof be fined
not less than $25 nor more than $200. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. For
any person who has previously violated this chapter, the second violation shall
be treated as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2012-253, passed 10-25-2012)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Short title
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Compliance
   
152.04   Rules and definitions
   
152.05   Procedures
   
152.06   Premature subdivisions
   
152.07   Disqualification/denial of plats
Platting and Design Procedures
   
152.20   Data for sketch plan
   
152.21   Data for preliminary plat
   
152.22   Data for final plat
   
152.23   Data for minor subdivision
   
152.24   Subdivision design standards
   
152.25   Easements
   
152.26   Dedication of land
   
152.27   Open space
   
152.28   Improvements required
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.40   Variances/waivers
   
152.41   Filing and recording
   
152.42   Registered land surveys
   
152.43   Building permits
   
152.44   Amendments/repeal
   
152.99   Violations and penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Subdivision Chapter of the city” and
will be referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 78A, passed 8-22-1985; Am. Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted in order to safeguard the best interests of the city
and to assist the subdivider in harmonizing the subdivider's interests with
those of the city at large. Because each new subdivision becomes a permanent
unit in the basic structure of the expanding community, and to which the
community will be forced to adhere, and because piecemeal planning of
subdivisions will bring on undesirable, disconnected patchwork or pattern and
poor circulation of traffic unless its design and arrangement is correlated to
a comprehensive plan of the city aiming at a unified scheme of community
interests, all subdivisions of land hereafter submitted for approval to the
city and the Planning Commission shall, in all respects, fully comply with the
regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter. It is the purpose of this
chapter to make certain regulations and requirements for the platting of land
within the city to provide for health, safety, and the general welfare and to:
   (A)   Provide for and guide the orderly, economic and safe development of
land and urban services and facilities;
   (B)   Encourage well planned, efficient and attractive subdivision by
establishing adequate standards for design and construction;
   (C)   Facilitate adequate provision for streets, transportation, city water,
city sewer, storm drainage, schools, parks, playgrounds, and other public
services and facilities;
   (D)   Assure that a reasonable portion of any proposed subdivision is
dedicated to the public or preserved for public use as streets; roads, sewers;
electric; gas and water facilities; storm water drainage and holding areas or
ponds; and similar utilities and improvements;
   (E)   Assure the public improvements are constructed to adequate standards;
   (F)   Place the cost of improvements against those benefiting from their
construction;
   (G)   Secure the rights of the public with respect to public lands and
waters;
   (H)   Assure the new subdivisions are consistent with the Comprehensive
Plan, the Growth Development Plan, and overall development objectives of the
city;
   (I)   Achieve a more secure tax base; and
   (J)   Set the minimum requirements necessary to protect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
(Ord. 78A, passed 8-22-1985; Am. Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006)
§ 152.03 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed major/minor subdivision shall not transfer ownership of the parcel
before a plat or certificate of survey of the subdivision has been approved by
the City Council and has been filed with the Registrar of Deeds of the county.
   (B)   No plat or certificate of survey shall be filed with the Registrar of
Deeds, which does not bear the signatures of the Mayor and Clerk/Administrator
of the city.
   (C)   Proof of all recordings with the county shall be provided by the owner
to the Clerk/Administrator of the city within ten working days after the filing
with the County Recorder.
   (D)   All recordings shall be subject to any other additional requirements
mentioned elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 78A, passed 8-22-1985; Am. Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006) Penalty, see
§
152.99
§ 152.04 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense include the past and future tense;
the singular number includes the plural and the plural includes the singular;
the word “shall” is mandatory, and the words “should” or “may” are permissive.
      (2)   In the event of conflicting provisions in the text of this chapter,
the more restrictive shall apply.
   (B)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW COMMITTEE.  A committee composed of the public
works director, city engineer, city planner, city building official, police and
fire chiefs, zoning administrator, and other appropriate city officials
appointed by the City Clerk/Administrator. The chairperson of the committee
shall be the Zoning Administrator or his/her designee.
      ALLEY. Any dedicated public way affording a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting property, and not intended for general traffic circulation.
      ATTORNEY.  The attorney employed by the city unless otherwise stated.
      BLOCK.  The enclosed area of land within a plat, consisting of one or
more lots, which area is normally bounded by streets, or an exterior boundary
of the plat, a river, lake, or park or a combination of such boundaries or
features.
      BOULEVARD. The portion of the street right-of-way between the curb line
and the property line.
      BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof,
and used or built for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or
property of any kind.
      BUILDING SETBACK.  The minimum horizontal distance from the street right-
of-way, as prescribed in the Zoning Ordinance.
      CALIPER INCHES. See Stem Caliper and Stem Diameter.
      CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY.  A document prepared by a Registered Land Surveyor
which precisely describes area, dimensions and location of a parcel or parcels
of land.
      COMMON INTEREST COMMUNITY. A contiguous or noncontiguous real estate
within Minnesota that is subject to an instrument which obligates persons
owning a separately described parcel of the real estate, or occupying a part of
the real estate pursuant to a proprietary lease, by reason of their ownership
or occupancy, to pay for (a) real estate taxes levied against; (b) insurance
premiums payable with respect to; (c) maintenance of; or (d) construction,
maintenance, repair or replacement of improvements located on one or more
parcels or parts of the real estate other than the parcel or part that the
person owns or occupies (M.S. § 515B.1-103).
      COMMUNITY. The City of Lonsdale.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A compilation of policy statements, goals, standards,
and maps for guiding the physical, social, and economic development, both
public and private, of the municipality and its environs, as defined in M.S. §
462.352, subd. 5, and includes any unit or part of such plan separately adopted
and any amendment to such plan or parts thereof.
      CONTOUR MAP.  A map on which irregularities of land surface are shown by
lines connecting points of equal elevations. Contour interval is the vertical
height between contour lines.
      CONCEPT PLAN. A sketch drawing or map which depicts a proposed
subdivision indicating lot layouts, streets, use, relationship to surrounding
area, generalized natural features, easements, and any requested zoning change
and other information required by this chapter for review by the city.
      CONVEYANCE.  The sale, trading, donation or offer of sale or other
transfer of land.
      COPY. A print or reproduction made from a tracing.
      COUNTY.  Rice County, Minnesota.
      COUNTY RECORDER. The County Recorder, who is also the Registrar of
Titles, when referring to the abstract or the Torrens systems in Rice County.
      CRITICAL ROOT ZONE OF A TREE.  The area of a circle around a significant
tree with a radius that is equal to one and a half feet for every inch in stem
diameter.
      CUL-DE-SAC.  A local street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
      DESIGN STANDARDS. The specifications to landowners or subdividers for the
preparation of preliminary and final plats indicating, among other things, the
optimum, minimum or maximum dimensions of such items as right-of-ways, blocks,
easements, and lots.
      DEVELOPER.  A person, firm, corporation, sole proprietorship,
partnership, state agency, or political subdivision of the state having
sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence
and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under this chapter. This shall
be synonymous with subdivider.
      DEVELOPMENT. The division of a parcel of land into two or more parcels;
the construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration,
relocation, or enlargement of any structure; any mining excavation, landfill or
land disturbance, and any use or extension of the use of land.
      DRAINAGE COURSE. A watercourse or surface area for the drainage or
conveyance of water, including channel, creek, ditch, drain, river, and stream.
      EASEMENT.  A grant by a property owner for the use of land for the
purpose of constructing and maintaining access, drainage or utilities,
including but not limited to, wetlands, ponding areas, sanitary sewers, water
mains, electric lines, telephone lines, storm sewers or storm drainage ways,
gas lines, cable television lines, conservation, and pedestrian trails.
      ENGINEER. The person or persons, individual or corporate, designated from
time to time by the City Council as the City Engineer.
      ESCROW. A deposit of cash with the local government in lieu of an amount
required and still in force on a performance or maintenance bond.
      GOVERNING BODY. The City Council.
      KEY MAP.  A map drawn to comparatively small scale, which definitely
shows the area, proposed to be platted and the areas surrounding it to a given
distance.
      LOT. A separate parcel, tract or area of land undivided by any public
street or private street or public road, which has been established by plat,
metes and bounds subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, and which, is
occupied by or intended to be developed for and occupied by a principal
building, or group of buildings, and accessory buildings, or utilized for a
principal use and uses accessory thereto, including such open spaces, and yards
as are designed and arranged or required by this chapter for the building, use
or development.
      LOT, AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side or
rear lot lines, but not including any area occupied by the public rights-of-
way.
      LOT, BUTT. A lot at the end of a block and located between two corner
lots.
      LOT, CORNER.  A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection, or upon two parts of the same street, the streets or parts of the
same street forming an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
      LOT COVERAGE. That portion or percentage of a lot, which may be covered
by impervious surfaces.
      LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line of a lot, measured within the lot lines. The greater frontage
of a corner lot is its depth, and its lesser frontage is its width.
      LOT DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot, which has a front line abutting on one street
and a back or rear line abutting on another street.
      LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot, except that where any portion
of a lot extends into the right-of-way or proposed public right-of-way, the
line of the right-of-way shall be the lot line.
      LOT LINE, FRONT.  The lot line separating a lot from a street right-of-
way. In case of a corner lot it shall be the boundary with the shortest
dimension on the street. In the case of lots with more than two street
frontages, the front line shall be the lot line having the legal street
address.
      LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line which is parallel to and most distant from
the front lot line; or in the case of triangular or otherwise irregularly
shaped lots, a line 20 feet in length, entirely within lots, parallel to and at
the maximum possible distance from the front lot line.
      LOT LINE, SIDE.  Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line. A SIDE
LOT LINE separating a lot from a street is called a side street lot line. A
SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from another lot or lots is called an interior
side lot line.
      LOT, WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of the
lot, measured parallel to the front line of the lot at the setback line.
      METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION. A description of real property which is not
described by reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described by
starting at a known point  and describing the bearing and distances of the
lines forming the boundaries of the property or delineates a fractional portion
of a section, lot or area by describing lines or portions thereof.
      OFFICIAL MAP. The map established by the City Council in accordance with
state statutes showing streets, highways, and parks and drainage, both existing
and proposed.
      OUTLOT. An unbuildable parcel of land delineated upon and thereafter
described by reference to a plat, registered land survey or auditor's
subdivision, or other similar recorded dedicatory document, unless resubdivided
as new lots in a new subdivision.
      PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS, AND PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. The public land and open
spaces in the city dedicated and owned by the city to be reserved for
recreation or conservation purposes.
      PEDESTRIAN WAY.  A public right-of-way across or within a block intended
to provide access to be used by pedestrians and others, which may be used for
the installation of utility lines. PEDESTRIAN WAYS include sidewalks and trails
for bicycle and pedestrian traffic.
      PLANNING COMMISSION OR COMMISSION.  The Planning and Zoning Commission of
the city appointed by the City Council.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.  A tract of land planned and developed to
encourage a more creative and efficient development of land, while at the same
time meeting the standards and purposes of the Comprehensive Plan for
preserving the health, safety and welfare of the city, to allow for a mixture
of residential units or residential and commercial units in an integrated and
well-planned area and to ensure the concentration of open space into more
usable areas and preservation of natural resources of the site including
wetlands, steep slopes, vegetation, and scenic areas.
      PLAT. The drawing or map of a subdivision prepared for filing of record
pursuant to M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be amended from time to time, and
containing all elements and requirements set forth in applicable local
regulations adopted pursuant to M.S. § 462.358 and M.S. Ch. 505, as they may be
amended from time to time.
      PLAT, FINAL.  The final map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's
plan of subdivision is presented for approval and which, if approved and
properly executed, will be submitted to the county recorder. Such plat must
conform to all state, county and city laws.
      PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The preliminary map, drawing or plan indicating the
proposed lay out of the subdivision to be submitted to the Planning Commission
and City Council for their consideration, including required data.
      PROTECTIVE COVENANTS.  Contracts entered into between private parties and
constituting a restriction on the use of private property within a subdivision
for the benefit of the property owners, and to provide mutual protection
against undesirable aspects of development which would tend to impair stability
of values. Because these covenants are between private parties, the city
undertakes no liability or responsibility for their enforcement.
      PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.  Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, street,
sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water system, sidewalk, pedestrian way, tree,
lawn, off-street parking area, street lights, lot improvement or other facility
for which the city may ultimately assume ownership, responsibility for
maintenance and operation, or which may affect an improvement, for which local
government responsibility is or may be established.
      REPLACEMENT TREE. A tree planted as part of the tree replacement plan,
which must be at least three caliper inches measured 12 inches from the ground
and which otherwise meets the requirements of this section, except bur oak,
swamp white oak, pagoda dogwood, ironwood, and similar trees accepted by the
city which may be one a quarter caliper inches. A coniferous tree seven feet
high will meet the three minimum caliper inches required.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The publicly owned land along a street or highway corridor,
a portion of which is intended to be occupied or which is occupied by the
street or highway pavement, alley, trail, utility lines, oil or gas pipeline,
railroad lines, storm sewer, or other similar use.
      STEEP SLOPE. An 18% or greater deviation of a surface from the
horizontal.
      STEM CALIPER.  The diameter of a tree measured at six inches above the
ground for stems less than or equal to four inches and at 12 inches for stems
greater than four inches in diameter.
      STEM DIAMETER (caliper inches, trunk diameter). The diameter of a tree
measured usually at four and a half feet above the ground. For trees that
branch at or below four and a half feet above the ground but above one foot,
stem diameter is measured at the smallest point below four and a half feet.
Trees that branch below one foot will be considered to have multiple stems and
the diameter of the tree will equal the sum of the diameters of each stem.
      STREET. A public-right-of-way accepted or a private right-of-way approved
pursuant to the requirements of the city, by public authority, which provides a
legal primary means of public access to abutting property. The term STREET
shall include a highway, thoroughfare, arterial, parkway, collector, avenue,
drive, circle, road, boulevard, or any other similar term describing an entity
complying with the preceding requirements.
      STREET, ARTERIAL. A street or highway with access restrictions designed
to carry large volumes of traffic between various sections of the city and
beyond.
      STREET, COLLECTOR.  A street, which carries traffic from local streets to
the major system of arterials, and highways. Collector streets primarily
provide principal access to residential neighborhoods, including to a lesser
degree, direct land access.
      STREET, LOCAL. A street, which is used primarily for access to abutting
properties and for local traffic.
      STREET, PAVEMENT. The wearing or exposed surface of the roadway used by
vehicular traffic.
      STREET, PRIVATE.  A street serving as vehicular access to two or more
parcels of land which is not dedicated to the public but is owned by one or
more private parties.
      STREET, WIDTH.  The width of the right-of-way, measured at right angles
to the centerline of the street.
      SUBDIVIDER.  Any person commencing proceedings under this chapter to
effect a subdivision of land hereunder for him or herself or for another.
      SUBDIVISION. The separation of an area, parcel, or tract of land under
single ownership into two or more parcels, tracts, lots, or long-term leasehold
interests where the creation of the leasehold interest necessitates the
creation of streets, roads, or alleys, for residential commercial, industrial,
or other use or any combination thereof, except those separations:
         (a)   Where all the resulting parcels, tracts, lots, or interests will
be 20 acres or larger in size and 500 feet in width for residential uses and
five acres or larger in size for commercial and industrial uses;
         (b)   A cemetery or burial plot while used for that purpose;
         (c)   Resulting from court orders, or the adjustment of a lot line by
the relocation of a common boundary.
      SUBDIVISION, MAJOR.  A subdivision involving the creation of four or more
parcels, tracts or lots.
      SUBDIVISION, MINOR.  A subdivision involving the creation of not more
than three parcels, tracts, or lots, and dedication of public utility and
street easements is not involved.
      SURVEYOR. A person duly registered as a land surveyor by the state.
      TRACING. A plat or map drawn on transparent paper or cloth, which can be
reproduced by using regular reproduction procedure.
      TREE REMOVAL. Any excavating, grading, clearing, filling or other earth
change or any cutting, which may result in removal or killing of more than ten
percent of the significant tree caliper tree caliper inches on any land within
any period of five years.
      TREE, SIGNIFICANT.  Any deciduous or coniferous tree measuring six
caliper inches in diameter or which is not dead or actively infested with oak
wilt or Dutch elm disease. Bur oak, swamp white oak, pagoda dogwood, ironwood,
and similar trees accepted by the city may be considered as significant trees
when they are of four caliper inches in diameter of greater.
      TREE TRUNK. The stem portion of a tree from the ground to the first
branch thereof.
      VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of this chapter where such deviation
will not be contrary to the spirit and intent of the Comprehensive Plan and
this chapter, the public interest and where due to physical conditions unique
to the individual property and not the result of the actions of the applicant,
a literal enforcement of the chapter would result in unnecessary and undue
hardship.
      WETLAND. The city adopts the definition of “Wetlands” as contained in
M.S. § 103G.005, subd. 19. Designations of the Rice County Environmental
Services Office of Wetlands shall be presumed as accurate when determining the
location of wetlands.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.  The person appointed by the city council whose
duties include the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
      ZONING ORDINANCE. The City Zoning Ordinance controlling the use of land,
as adopted by the City Council.
(Ord. 78A, passed 8-22-2005; Am. Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006)
§ 152.05 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Concept plan.
      (1)   In order to insure that all applicants are informed of the
procedural requirements and minimum standards of this chapter and the
requirements or limitations imposed by other city ordinances or plans, prior to
development of a preliminary plat, all applicants shall present a concept plan
to the city prior to filing a preliminary plat.
      (2)   Subdividers shall prepare, for review by the Planning Commission, a
subdivision concept plan which shall contain the information listed in §
152.20, data for concept plan and filing fee. The subdivider is responsible for
providing at least ten copies of the proposed subdivision to city staff and
completion of an application for concept plan review at least 15 days prior to
the meeting of the Planning Commission at which action is desired.
      (3)   When a proposed plat is located outside the city limits, one copy
of the concept plan shall be referred to the Town Board of the township within
which the plat is proposed to be located. Written comments from the Town Board
shall be transmitted to the Planning Commission within 15 days of receipt of
the concept plan by the Town Board.
      (4)   The subdivider, or a duly authorized representative, shall attend
the Planning Commission meeting at which his or her proposal is scheduled for
consideration to discuss the requirements, which pertain to his or her proposed
subdivision or resubdivision.
      (5)   The Planning Commission will review, discuss, and advise the
subdivider of the extent to which the proposed subdivision conforms to this
chapter, the comprehensive plan, and as variances that may be required and any
other applicable official controls.
      (6)   The Planning Commission shall make specific recommendations and
comments about the concept plan to be incorporated by the applicant in the next
submission to the Planning Commission. Any advice, comments, or recommendations
for modifications made at this point by staff or Planning Commission are
advisory only and shall not constitute approval or commitment to approve.
Review of the concept plan will include an initial determination whether
environmental review documents must be completed pursuant to state law or
rules. If such documents are required, the subdivider shall take the proper
steps to ensure that the documents are prepared.
   (B)   Preliminary plat.
      (1)   Within six months of the Planning Commission's consideration of a
concept plan, the applicant shall file with the city a preliminary plat at
least 30 days prior to the meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission at
which action is desired. The application shall be accompanied by a set number
of copies of the plat set by staff, which shall comply with the requirements of
§
152.21, data for preliminary plat, filing fee, proof of ownership or ownership
interest (abstract, option, title insurance policy, registered property
abstract and any unrecorded documents) satisfactory to the city, and a list of
property owners with addresses located within 350 feet of the property
certified by an abstract company or the county. Failure to act within the above
time limit shall invalidate an approved concept plan and require that it be
resubmitted.
      (2)   Prior to the meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission at which
the preliminary plat is to be considered, the Administrative Review Committee,
shall examine the plat for compliance with this chapter and other ordinances of
the city, and shall submit a written report to the Commission. The city shall
submit a copy of the plat to the Commissioner of Transportation if the proposed
subdivision includes land abutting an established or proposed trunk highway,
County Engineer if the proposed subdivision includes land abutting a county or
county state-aid highway, and State Commissioner of Natural Resources if the
proposed subdivision adjoins a public body of water.
      (3)   The Administrative Review Committee shall undertake a comprehensive
review of the preliminary plat in order to determine how the proposed
development will affect traffic, utilities, drainage, community facilities,
public safety, surrounding development, natural features, historic sites, open
space and the like. The Committee shall also consider the proposed development
in terms of its conformity with the city's comprehensive land use plan. The
chairperson of the Administrative Review Committee shall prepare a written
report. The report shall be sent to the Planning Commission and the applicant
and shall be made available for review by all interested citizens in advance of
the Planning Commission meeting.
      (4)   The Park Board shall make a recommendation to the City Council as
to the location, size, and type of park improvements and sidewalk/trail system
proposed. If the City Council grants approval of the preliminary plat prior to
review by the Park Board, such approval shall be contingent on review of the
Park Board.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the
preliminary plat after notice of the date, time, place and purpose of the
hearing has been published once in the official newspaper, and a site sign has
been erected by the applicant, both at least ten days before the date of
hearing. Written notice shall also be mailed by the city to the applicant and
all owners of record listed in the County Recorder's Office, within 350 feet of
the outer boundaries of the preliminary plat. A copy of the notice and a list
of the owners and addresses to which the notice was sent shall be attested to
by the city and shall be made a part of the records of the proceedings. The
failure to give mailed notice to individual property owners, or defects in the
notice, shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona fide attempt to
comply with this requirement has been made.
      (6)   After considering the Administrative Review Committee Report and
the comments and suggestions received at the public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall make its recommendation on the preliminary plat to the City
Council within 45 days from the date of the opening of the public hearing,
unless the applicant consents on the record to a continuance. The Planning
Commission may recommend approval, approval subject to certain conditions or
that the preliminary plat be denied. All recommendations and the reasons
thereof shall be stated in the record.
      (7)   The subdivider, or a duly authorized representative, shall attend
the Planning Commission meeting at which his or her proposal is scheduled for
consideration to discuss the requirements which pertain to his or her proposed
subdivision or resubdivision.
      (8)   When feasible, the City Council shall consider the preliminary plat
at its next regular meeting following action by the Planning Commission and the
Park Board. The City Council shall approve or deny the preliminary plat within
120 days following receipts by the city of the properly completed application,
unless the subdivider shall consent on the record to a continuance. The City
Council may by resolution:
         (a)   Grant approval of the preliminary plat, with or without
modification or conditions;
         (b)   Refer the preliminary plat to the Planning Commission or
appropriate city staff, officers or departments for further investigations and
report to the Council at a specified future meeting; or
         (c)   Disapprove the preliminary plat. If the plat is not approved,
the City Council shall state the reasons for denial in the record.
      (9)   The city shall notify the applicant in writing of the City
Council's action, stating the conditions of approval or reasons for disapproval
and shall endorse the date of the approval or disapproval on the preliminary
plat. Approval of the preliminary plat is an acceptance of the general layout
submitted and indicates to the subdivider that he or she may proceed toward
approval of the final plat in accordance with the resolution granting
preliminary approval and the terms of this chapter.
      (10)   Subsequent to approval of the preliminary plat and prior to
approval of the final plat, the subdivider shall submit engineering plans,
satisfactory to the City Engineer, for all required improvements, as specified
herein.
      (11)   At the discretion of the city, the preliminary and final plat may
be submitted at the same time to the City Council for consideration. The
consideration will be determined based on the issues and complexity associated
with the subdivision.
   (C)   Final plat.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided in the development contract, within one
year after the date of the City Council approval of the preliminary plat, the
subdivider or owner shall file an application for approval of the final plat
prepared by a land surveyor duly registered in the state accompanied by a set
number of copies of the plat set by staff, which shall comply with the
requirements of §
152.22. Data for final plat, filing fee, a development plan for the necessary
improvements with cost estimates, a copy of any restrictive covenants, and a
certification of title or registered property report, and abstract of title
shall be referred to the attorney for examination of title and report which
shall be returned within 15 days with the city. If the final plat application
is not filed within the period, the preliminary plat will be considered void
unless for good cause shown an extension is requested in writing by the
subdivider and granted by the City Council.
      (2)   The final plat shall conform to the requirements of this chapter
and to all conditions set forth in the approval of the preliminary plat by the
city, and by the County Engineer regarding county roads, the State Department
of Transportation regarding state highways, and State Commissioner of Natural
Resources regarding a public body of water.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the final plat, the city shall refer copies to the
Administrative Review Committee who shall review the final plat and shall
transmit reports of their recommendations to all Planning Commission members
before the Planning Commission meeting at which such plat is to be considered.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall study the final plat, considering the
reports of the Administrative Review Committee and then shall transmit its
recommendations to the City Council.
      (5)   The subdivider, or a duly authorized representative, shall attend
the Council meeting at which his or her proposal is scheduled for consideration
to discuss the requirements, which pertain to the proposed subdivision or
resubdivision.
      (6)   The City Council shall consider the final plat and shall approve or
disapprove the final plat within 60 days of receipt of the complete
application. The findings necessary for City Council approval of the
preliminary plat and the final plat shall be as follows:
         (a)   The proposed subdivision is consistent with the zoning code and
conforms with all its requirements and this chapter;
         (b)   The proposed subdivision is consistent with all applicable city,
county and regional plans including but not limited to the city's generalized
land use plan;
         (c)   The physical characteristics of the site, including but not
limited to topography, soils, vegetation, susceptibility to erosion and
siltation, susceptibility to flooding and storm water drainage are suitable for
the type and density of development and uses contemplated;
         (d)   The proposed subdivision makes adequate provision for water
supply, storm drainage, sewage disposal, transportation, erosion control and
all other public and private services, facilities and improvements otherwise
required herein;
         (e)   The proposed subdivision will not cause adverse environmental
damage or degradation;
         (f)   The proposed subdivision will not conflict with easements of
record or with easements established by judgment of a court;
         (g)   The proposed subdivision will not have an undue and adverse
impact on the reasonable development of neighboring land; and
         (h)   The proposed subdivision incorporates appropriate design and
site planning elements for reasonable energy conservation measures.
      (7)   No final plat shall be approved by the City Council until
satisfactory evidence is filed with the city that the plat is in a form
acceptable for recording with the county, that the proper filing fees have been
paid to the city, that a developer's agreement with appropriate improvement
sureties has been executed, and that the escrow account is current and no other
payments to the city are outstanding.
      (8)   Upon approval of the final plat by the City Council, the city shall
promptly notify the applicant of the approval and within 30 days thereafter,
the applicant shall file the final plat with the County Recorder. The applicant
shall furnish the city with one mylar and two paper copies of the final plat as
recorded, showing evidence of the recording. Failure of the applicant to comply
with these requirements of recording shall be cause for revoking the city's
approval.
   (D)   Minor subdivision/waiver of subdivision platting.
      (1)   Application. This section shall apply to the following applications
in residential districts:
         (a)   In the case of a request to divide a portion of a lot where the
division is to permit the adding of a parcel of land to an abutting lot.
         (b)   In the case of a request to combine two existing platted lots.
         (c)   In the case of a request to divide a base lot which is a part of
a recorded plat on which has been constructed a two-family dwelling, townhouse
or quadraminium, where the division is to permit individual private ownership
of a single dwelling unit within such a structure and the newly created
property lines will not cause any of the unit lots or the structure to be in
violation of this chapter, the Zoning Ordinance, or the State Building Code.
         (d)   To qualify, the parcel of land shall not have been part of a
minor subdivision within the last five years.
         (e)   In the case of a request to approve a conveyance by metes and
bounds if it is determined that the following conditions exist:
            1.   The restriction against the conveyance will create an
unnecessary hardship;
            2.   The conveyance will not interfere with the purposes of the
subdivision regulations;
            3.   The dedication of public utility or street easements is not
involved;
            4.   The conveyance involves the division of a parcel into not more
than two separate parcels; and
            5.   The new and residual parcels of land, which would result from
the conveyance, meet the frontage and area requirements of the zoning code.
      (2)   The minor subdivision shall conform to all design standards as
specified in this chapter. Any proposed deviation from said standards shall
require the processing of a variance request.
      (3)   A minor subdivision shall be processed as follows:
         (a)   A certificate of survey shall be submitted to the city as
specified in §
152.23 of this chapter two weeks prior to the next Planning and Zoning
Commission Meeting for Planning Commission's review.
         (b)   Upon review by the Planning Commission and/or City Council, the
full platting process may be required if additional information is deemed
necessary.
         (c)   Upon execution of the City Council's resolution approving the
minor subdivision, the City Administrator shall be authorized to sign the deed
or registered land survey as meeting the requirements of the city. The
Certificate of Survey or Registered Land Survey shall be filed and recorded at
the Office of the County Recorder within 30 days of approval.
         (d)   Council reserves the right to require the provision of utility,
drainage and street easements on the certificate of survey in regards to the
approval of a minor subdivision.
   (E)   Vacation of plat or subdivision.
      (1)   Any plat or any part of a plat may be vacated by the owner of the
property before the sale of any lot therein, by a written instrument, with a
copy of the plat attached, declaring the same to be vacated. The vacation shall
require the approval of the City Council in the same manner as for plats of
subdivisions. The City Council may reject any instrument, which abridges or
destroys any public rights in any of its streets or alleys. An instrument shall
be approved and recorded in the same manner as plats or subdivisions. After
being recorded, the instrument shall nullify the recording of the plat so
vacated and divest all public rights in the streets, alleys and public grounds
and all dedications laid out or described in the plat.
      (2)   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated as stated herein,
provided that all the owners of lots in the plat join in the execution of the
instrument.
      (3)   Platted areas may be replatted, provided that they follow the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 78A, passed 8-22-1985; Am. Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006) Penalty, see
§
152.99
§ 152.06 PREMATURE SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Any preliminary plat of a proposed subdivision deemed premature for
development shall be denied by the City Council.
   (B)   A subdivision may be deemed premature should any one or more of the
conditions set forth in the following provisions exist:
      (1)   Lack of adequate drainage. A condition of inadequate drainage shall
be deemed to exist if:
         (a)   Surface or subsurface water retention and runoff is such that it
constitutes a danger to the structural security of the proposed structures.
         (b)   The proposed subdivision will cause pollution of water sources
or damage from erosion and siltation on downhill or downstream land.
         (c)   The proposed site grading and development will cause harmful and
irreparable damage from erosion and siltation on downhill or downstream land.
         (d)   Factors to be considered in making these determinations may
include, but are not limited to:
            1.   Average rainfall for the area.
            2.   The relation of the land to floodplains.
            3.   The nature of soils and subsoils and their ability to
adequately support surface water runoff and waste disposal systems.
            4.   The slope of the land and its effect on effluents.
            5.   The presence of streams as related to effluent disposal.
      (2)   Lack of adequate water supply. A proposed subdivision shall be
deemed to lack an adequate water supply if the proposed subdivision, when
developed to its maximum permissible density, would not have adequate sources
of water to serve the proposed subdivision without causing an unreasonable
depreciation of existing water supplies for surrounding areas.
      (3)   Lack of adequate streets or highway to serve the subdivision. A
proposed subdivision shall be deemed to lack adequate streets or highways to
serve the subdivision when:
         (a)   Streets which currently serve the proposed subdivision and/or
streets that are proposed to serve the subdivision are of such a width, grade,
stability, site distance and surface conditions that an increase in traffic
volume generated by the proposed subdivision would create a hazard to public
safety and general Lonsdale Subdivision Ordinance welfare and, when with due
regard to the advice of the county or state, said roads are inadequate for the
intended use.
         (b)   The traffic volume generated by the proposed subdivision as
calculated by the City Engineer and subject to generally accepted generation
computation formulas and design standards would create unreasonable highway
congestion at the time of the application or proposed for completion within the
next two years.
      (4)   Lack of adequate waste disposal systems. A proposed subdivision
shall be deemed to lack adequate waste disposal systems if there is inadequate
sewer capacity in the present system to support the subdivision if developed to
its maximum permissible density after reasonable sewer capacity is reserved for
schools, planned public facilities, and commercial and industrial development
projected for the next five years. Expected wastewater generation rates
applicable to a proposed subdivision shall be based on generally accepted
generation computation formulas as assigned by the City Engineer.
      (5)   Lack of adequate city support facilities.  A proposed subdivision
shall be deemed to lack adequate support facilities, such as parks and
recreational facilities and police, fire, and ambulance protection and services
when said support facilities are reasonably expected to be necessitated by the
subdivision and can not be reasonably provided for within the next five fiscal
years.
      (6)   Inconsistency with the comprehensive plan.  A proposed subdivision
shall be deemed premature if it is found to be inconsistent with the purposes,
objective, and recommendations of the duly adopted Comprehensive Plan of the
city, as may be amended from time to time.
      (7)   Inconsistency with environmental protection policies. A proposed
subdivision shall be deemed premature if it is found to be inconsistent with
environmental protection policies set forth within the city, state and federal
rules and regulations, as may be amended.
   (C)   The burden shall be upon the applicant to show that the proposed
subdivision is not premature.
(Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 DISQUALIFICATION/DENIAL OF PLATS.
   The City Council may deny the subdivision if it makes any one or more of the
following findings:
   (A)   That the proposed subdivision is in direct conflict with adopted
applicable general and specific comprehensive plans of the city, county, or
region.
   (B)   That the physical characteristics of the site, including but not
limited to topography, percolation rate, soil conditions, susceptibility to
erosion and siltation, susceptibility to flooding, water storage, drainage and
retention, are such that the site is not suitable for the type of development,
design, or use contemplated.
   (C)   That the site is not physically suitable for the proposed density of
development.
   (D)   That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements are
likely to cause serious public health problems.
   (E)   That the design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements are
likely to cause substantial environmental damage.
   (F)   That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will
conflict with easements of record or with easements established by judgment of
a court.
   (G)   That the proposed subdivision, its site, or its design adversely
affects the flood-carrying capacity of the floodway, increases flood stages and
velocities, or increases flood hazards within the floodway fringe or within
other areas of the city.
   (H)   The proposed subdivision is inconsistent with the policies and
standards of the state defined Shoreland Districts and Wetland Districts.
   (I)   The proposed subdivision violates this subdivision chapter or the
city's zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 78A, passed 8-22-1985; Am. Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006) Penalty, see
§
152.99
PLATTING AND DESIGN PROCEDURES
§ 152.20 DATA FOR SKETCH PLAN.
   The concept plan shall be prepared by the subdivider depicting the proposed
subdivision and shall contain the following information:
   (A)   A site location map showing major streets, parks, community
facilities, and other significant developments.
   (B)   Tract boundaries.
   (C)   North point and scale.
   (D)   Topography and physical features, including lakes, ponds, wetlands,
and wooded areas.
   (E)   Proposed uses, including park and open space.
   (F)   Streets within and adjacent to the tract.
   (G)   Proposed general street design layout.
   (H)   Proposed lot size and orientation.
   (I)   Proposed zoning change, if any.
(Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006)
§ 152.21 DATA FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The following data shall be included on the preliminary plat or in the
accompanying documents.
   (A)   The following information pertaining to identification and description
shall be provided:
      (1)   The name of the proposed subdivision. The subdivision name shall
not duplicate or nearly duplicate the name of any other subdivision in the
county, unless the proposed subdivision is an addition to an existing
subdivision.
      (2)   The legal description of the land contained within the subdivision
including the total acreage of the proposed subdivision.
      (3)   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all persons, firms,
and corporations holding interests in the land.
      (4)   An indication as to which lands are registered property or abstract
property.
      (5)   The name, address, telephone number, and professional license
number and seal of the registered land surveyor who made, or under whose
supervision was made, the survey of the proposed subdivision.
      (6)   The date of said survey and revision dates for all subsequent
submissions.
      (7)   A graphic scale or plat, not less than one inch equal to 100 feet.
      (8)   Existing and proposed covenants, liens, or encumbrances.
      (9)   Elevation benchmarks used for the topographic survey, which match
the county's coordinates.
      (10)   Reference to the coordinate system use for the survey.
   (B)   The following information pertaining to existing conditions shall be
provided:
      (1)   A vicinity map at a scale acceptable to the Planning and Zoning
Commission showing the relationship of the proposed subdivision to adjacent
properties, roads, right-of-ways, and other property and subdivision within 350
feet of the proposed subdivision, and the relation of the plat to the
surrounding zoning districts.
      (2)   All existing monuments and markers found and set.
      (3)   The location, names and widths of all existing streets, roads and
easements within the proposed subdivision and adjacent thereto.
      (4)   The approximate boundaries of all areas subject to inundation or
storm water overflow, and the location, width and direction of flow of all
watercourses.
      (5)   The location and, where ascertainable, sizes of all existing
structures, wells, overhead and underground utilities, railroad lines,
municipal boundaries, section lines, township lines, and other important
features existing upon, over or under the land proposed to be subdivided.
      (6)   Soil surveys of the site or the results from representative soil
borings.
      (7)   North arrow and scale.
      (8)   Contours existing and proposed, at two-foot intervals, and spot
elevations to determine the general slope of the land, and high and low points
thereof. The contours and elevations shall be based upon data acceptable to the
City Engineer.
      (9)   A tree preservation plan that identifies the types and location of
all trees greater than eight inches in diameter when measured at a point one
foot above the ground level. Trees to be removed for streets, drives,
buildings, drainage, or other purposes shall be identified. A replacement plan
shall also be included.
      (10)   Areas in the plat which have been designated as wetlands and/or
floodplains by the Department of Natural Resources and/or identified on the
National Wetland Inventory (NWI) maps and/or field delineated wetlands.
   (C)   The following information pertaining to proposed conditions shall be
provided:
      (1)   The boundaries of all blocks and lots within the proposed
subdivision, together with the numbers and letters proposed to be assigned each
lot and block.
      (2)   The total number of proposed lots, their minimum, maximum and
average size. Identification of any lots in which uses other than residential
are proposed by the developer.
      (3)   The layout of proposed streets showing rights-of-way widths,
centerline grades of streets and proposed street names. Street names shall be
assigned or approved by the city.
      (4)   The location of any of the foregoing improvements which may be
required to be constructed beyond the boundaries of the subdivision shall be
shown on the preliminary map or on the vicinity map, as appropriate.
      (5)   Provisions for surface water disposal, ponding, drainage and flood
control.
      (6)   Where the subdivider owns property adjacent to that which is being
proposed for subdivision, it shall be required that the subdivider submit a
sketch plan of the remainder of the property so as to show the possible
relationships between the proposed subdivision and the future subdivision. In
any event, all subdivisions shall be required to relate well with existing or
potential adjacent subdivisions.
      (7)   Proposed pad elevations on each lot. Pad elevations shall be 18
inches to 36 inches above the center of the adjacent street.
      (8)   Minimum front, side and rear setback lines on each lot. When lots
are on a curve, the width of the lot at the building setback line shall be
shown and shall not be less than the setback required by the zoning ordinance.
      (9)   The lot area of each lot shall be shown and shall not be less than
the minimum required by the zoning ordinance.
      (10)   The location, size and proposed improvements for proposed parks,
playgrounds and public open spaces; churches or school sites or other special
uses of land to be considered for dedication to public use or to be reserved by
deed of covenant for the use of all property owners in the subdivision and any
conditions of such dedication or reservation.
      (11)   Proposed right-of-way widths of alleys, if any, pedestrian ways,
trails drainage easements and utility easements.
      (12)   Preliminary Utility Plan including the proposed sizes and
locations of water, sanitary sewer, and storm water.
      (13)   Preliminary Grading and Drainage Plan, including the types of
houses proposed to be constructed on the lots, such as FB=Full Basement, SE L/
O= Split Entry Lookout, SE W/O= Split Entry Walkout, or FB W/O = Full Basement
Walk-out.
   (D)   The following supplemental information may be required:
      (1)   If zoning changes are contemplated, the proposed zoning plan for
the area, including dimensions, shall be shown. Such proposed zoning plan shall
be for information only and shall not vest any rights in the applicant.
      (2)   The subdivider shall provide subdivision information in electronic
format specified by the city.
      (3)   If all required information is not provided, the application is
considered incomplete.
(Ord. 78A, passed 8-22-1985; Am. Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006)
§ 152.22 DATA FOR FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor who is registered
in the state and shall comply with the requirements of this chapter and all
provisions of the state statutes regarding the platting of land. The plat may
consist of more than one sheet, numbered progressively, and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   All information required by the County Surveyor, Registrar of
Titles and County Recorder;
      (2)   Dimensions, size, and scale as required by the county for approval
by the County Board and filing with the County Recorder or the Registrar of
Titles;
      (3)   Municipal, township, county or section lines accurately tied to the
lines of the subdivision by distance and angles;
      (4)   Name of the plat;
      (5)   Location by section, township, range, county and state and
including descriptive boundaries of the subdivision based on an accurate
traverse, giving angular and linear dimensions which must mathematically close.
The allowable error of closure on any portion of a final plat shall be one foot
in 7,500 feet;
      (6)   Names of adjoining subdivisions and layouts of their streets;
      (7)   Location and description of monuments shown in reference to
existing official monuments of the nearest established street lines, including
true angles and distances to such reference points or monuments. Permanent
markers shall be placed at each corner of each lot, points of curvature and
points of tangency on street lines, and at each angle point on the boundary of
the subdivision. A permanent marker shall be deemed to be a steel rod or pipe,
3/4 inch or larger in diameter extending at least 14 inches below the finished
grade. In situations where conditions prohibit the placing of markers in the
locations prescribed above, offset markers shall be shown on the final plat,
together with accurate interior angles, bearings and distances. Permanent
monuments shall be placed at all quarter section points within the subdivision
or on its perimeter;
      (8)   The location of lots, streets, public highways, alleys, parks and
other features with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet, with the
length of radii and/or arcs of all curves, and with all other information
necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground. Dimensions shall be shown from
all angle points and points of curve to lot lines;
      (9)   Boundary lines and description of boundary lines of any areas other
than streets and alleys which are to be dedicated or reserved for public use;
      (10)   Clearly numbered lots and blocks with block numbers shown in the
center of the block;
      (11)   Names and addresses of the subdivider and surveyor making the
plat;
      (12)   Scale of plat (the scale to be shown graphically and in feet per
inch), date, and north point;
      (13)   A statement dedicating all easements;
      (14)   A statement dedicating all streets, alleys, parks and public open
space, and other public areas not previously dedicated; and
      (15)   A separate copy of the plat labeled “building setback lines”
containing the statement: “Building setback lines are hereby established as
shown on this copy of the plat, and no building or portion thereof shall be
built between this line and the street line.” The statement shall be dated and
endorsed by the subdivider and the city when the city determines that the
statement is consistent with the Zoning Chapter of the City Code and plat
approvals.
   (B)   The final plat shall contain the following required certifications:
      (1)   Notarized certification by owner or by any mortgage holder of
record of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas;
      (2)   Notarized certification by a registered land surveyor to the effect
that the plat represents a survey made by the surveyor and that monuments and
markers shown therein exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic
details are correct;
      (3)   Certification showing that all taxes and special assessments due on
the property have been paid in full;
      (4)   Space for certificates of approval to be filled in by the
signatures of the chairperson and secretary of the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the Mayor, the City Administrator and if applicable, county and
state officials;
      (5)   Certificate of private restrictions and trusteeships and their
period of existence. Should such restrictions and trusteeships be of such
length as to make the lettering of same on plat impractical, and thus
necessitate the preparation of a separate instrument, reference to such
instrument shall be made on the plat, and the book and page number referring to
the instrument shall be added to the plat after the restrictions or trusteeship
have been recorded; and
      (6)   The form for approval of county authorities as required.
   (C)   The following supplementary documents shall be provided to the city:
      (1)   Mylar copies, provided in full size and 11 inch x 17 inch size, of
the subdivision as approved by the city.
      (2)   A complete set of subdivision development plans containing plans
and specifications to construct the required public improvements and to make
the subdivision suitable for development, which conform to the city
requirements.
      (3)   A certified copy of the plat evidencing filing of the plat with the
county within 60 days after approval by the city. No building permits shall be
approved for construction of any structure on any lot in the plat until the
city has received evidence of the plat being recorded by Rice County.
      (4)   A complete set of as-built construction drawings for any public
improvements constructed in the subdivision shall be furnished to the city
within 120 days after the construction is complete and approved by the city. In
addition one digital GIS formatted copy and one scanned copy for imaging shall
be submitted to the city.
      (5)   Copies of any protective or restrictive covenants affecting the
subdivision or any part thereof.
      (6)   Upon adoption and filing of a final plat, the city shall prepare a
street address map and distribute it to the applicant, utility companies,
police department and county.
      (7)   A written opinion of the final plat shall be obtained from the City
Attorney.
      (8)   A letter of credit per the developer's agreement, for the utility
and street improvements and, for the site grading and erosion control shall be
placed with the city. The city may release a portion of the letter of credit as
public utility and street improvements are approved by the City Engineer, as
grading and erosion control has been certified and signed by the developer's
engineer.
      (9)   A disk of the recorded plat in AutoCAD format for inclusion in the
city's base map.
(Ord. 78A, passed 8-2-1985; Am. Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2005)
§ 152.23 DATA FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   The requested minor subdivision shall be prepared by a registered land
surveyor in the form of a Certificate of Survey.
   (B)   The data and supportive information detailing the proposed subdivision
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Certificate of survey. If the property affected is registered land,
a Registered Land Survey shall be required. Contents of the certificate of
survey:
         (a)   North arrow.
         (b)   Lot sizes in square feet, prior to and after the proposed split.
         (c)   Existing buildings and setbacks from proposed lot lines.
         (d)   Tree cover.
         (e)   Legal descriptions for the parcels to be created.
         (f)   Streets and easements.
         (g)   A graphic scale.
         (h)   Date of preparation.
      (2)   Additional information. In addition to the certificate of survey,
the applicant shall submit:
         (a)   A special assessment search.
         (b)   Property owners' names and proof of ownership.
         (c)   Zoning of all affected parcels.
         (d)   One digital copy of the minor subdivision shall be submitted to
the city on disk in the electronic format required by the city.
(Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006)
§ 152.24 SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   The design standards are intended to assure that the layout of the
proposed subdivision is consistent with existing plans affecting the property
and surrounding area and that it is in conformance with city plans.
      (2)   The proposed subdivision shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan,
Land Use Plan, zoning provisions of the city code, the design standards
contained in this section, and other provisions of this chapter. The design
standards and features set forth in this section are minimum requirements. The
city may impose additional or more stringent requirements concerning lot size,
and overall design as deemed appropriate considering the nature of the
surrounding conditions.
      (3)   The preliminary plat must cover all the owner's contiguous land,
but the final plat may cover only a portion of the land in the preliminary plat
provided it is in conformance with an approved preliminary plat and other
requirements herein.
      (4)   Where the parcel is subdivided into one or more tracts larger than
for building lots appropriate for the zoning district and the area, such
parcels shall be divided so as to allow for the opening of major streets and
the ultimate extension of adjacent minor streets.
      (5)   Subdivisions showing unplatted strips or private easements
controlling access to public ways shall not receive approval. However, at or
adjacent to the city's municipal line the city may allow or require a boulevard
reserve or other appropriate control to provide a buffer wherever necessary or
appropriate to control access to the city's right-of-way.
   (B)   Streets.
      (1)   The street layout of every subdivision shall be in conformity with
the city's transportation plan, and shall provide for the continuation of major
streets, which serve property contiguous to the subdivision. Street networks
shall provide ready access for fire and other emergency vehicles, and the
Planning and Zoning Commission may require additional access points if such are
found to be beneficial or necessary to protect the public safety. Where the
plat to be submitted includes only part of the tract owned or intended for
development by the subdivider, a tentative plan of a proposed future street
system for the unsubdivided portion shall be prepared and submitted by the
subdivider. Reserved strips controlling access to streets are prohibited.
      (2)   No land situated in the city, which has been subdivided or laid out
into separate tracts shall be sold for use for dwellings unless such tracts of
land shall abut a public or private street or public highway. This limitation
shall not apply to planned developments approved by the City Council pursuant
to the zoning ordinance. Street access shall not be denied by creation of
parcels of land of substandard depth, which are held in private ownership.
      (3)   Classification of streets shall be determined with reference to the
transportation plan and official streets maps including highway, arterial,
major and local collector and local streets.
         (a)   Cul-de-sacs or dead-end streets designed to have one end
permanently closed or in the form of cul-de-sac, (turn-around) shall be
provided at the closed end with a turn-around having a minimum right-of-way
radius of not less than 60 feet. Cul-de-sacs shall not exceed 600 feet in
length. Cul-de-sacs may be longer than 600 feet in length if the street does
not serve more than 20 houses from the nearest through street intersection.
Cul-de-sac streets shall only be allowed where one or more of the following
criteria have been met:
            1.   Area topography or other physical site conditions warrant a
cul-de-sac, dead-end design; or
            2.   A through street is not physically feasible.
         (b)   Curved streets should be so arranged as to fit the natural
topography as closely as possible and to make possible desirable land
subdivisions and safe vehicular traffic.
         (c)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to
reasonable development of future subdivisions. In cases where the entire right-
of-way has been dedicated to the public, but the property of the owner and
subdivider is located on one side of such street, the owner and subdivider
shall be required to grade the entire street in accordance with the plans to be
approved by the City Engineer, but the owner and subdivider shall only be
required to deposit payment for one-half of the engineer's estimated cost for
the improvement required. Building permits shall be denied for lots on the side
of the street where the property is owned by persons who have not entered into
a development agreement with the city for the installation of the improvements
required under this chapter. A street lying along the boundary of a subdivision
may be dedicated less than the required width if it is practical to require the
dedication of the remaining portion when the adjoining property is subdivided.
Whenever there exists a dedicated portion of a street in a subdivision
adjoining a proposed subdivision, the other portion of a street shall be
dedicated on the proposed subdivision to make the street complete. To assure
that this occurs, a one-foot reserve strip shall be deeded to the city on the
subdivision boundary along the street for the purpose of withholding access
from the unsubdivided property to said street until such time as the completed
street is constructed. The same procedure will be required when a street dead
ends without a cul-de-sac at the boundary of any subdivision.
         (d)   Local streets shall be designed so their use by through traffic
will be discouraged.
         (e)   Private streets may be permitted, upon approval of planned unit
development, of narrower width than public streets where connection with a
public street is provided and utility and snow storage easements adjacent to
the right-of-way are provided of sufficient width to total the right-of-way
width requirements for similar public streets. Such streets are to be
maintained privately.
      (4)   Design standards of streets shall be as follows:
         (a)   For all public ways hereafter dedicated and accepted, the
minimum right-of-way widths, paved widths, and construction requirements for
all streets shall be as shown in the city's Transportation Plan; greater widths
shall be required where existing or anticipated traffic so warrants.
         (b)   Minimum designs standards for collector and arterial streets
shall comply with Minnesota State Aid Design Standards.
         (c)   Driveway access width shall be no more than 24 feet in
residential areas and no more than 32 feet in commercial and industrial areas.
         (d)   There shall be a minimum grade on all streets of not less than
0.5%, and wherever possible grades within 30 feet of a local street
intersection with arterial and collector streets shall not exceed 3%. The grade
in all streets, in any subdivision shall not be greater than 6% for all
streets.
         (e)   Where horizontal street lines within a block deflect from each
other more than ten degrees at any one point, there shall be a connecting curve
with a radius adequate to ensure a sight distance of not less than 200 feet for
local and collector streets and of such greater radii as the city shall
determine for arterial and other special cases. A tangent of at least 100 feet
shall be introduced between reverse curves on arterial and collector streets
and 50 feet on other streets.
         (f)   The length of vertical curves shall be in accordance with the
American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials Green Book,
also known as the AASHTO Green Book.
         (g)   Under normal conditions, streets shall be laid out so as to
intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, except where topography or
other conditions justify variation as determined by the city. The minimum angle
of intersection of streets shall be 80 degrees. Street intersection jogs with
an offset of less than 125 feet shall be prohibited.
         (h)   Curb and gutter with adjustments where applicable for handicap
ramps, shall be installed as follows: four-inch surmountable type design for
local streets and standard six-inch rise with an 18-inch wide gutter and known
as B618.
         (i)   Street names shall be assigned or approved by the city.
   (C)   Alleys. Alleys are prohibited in the city, except for fire lanes,
which are required or permitted in commercial and industrial developments or
permitted under a planned unit development.
   (D)   Blocks.
      (1)   Block length. In general, intersecting streets, determining block
lengths, shall be provided at such intervals as to serve cross-traffic
adequately and to meet existing streets. Where no existing plats control, the
blocks in residential subdivisions shall normally not exceed 1,800 feet in
length, or shorter than 300 feet, except where topography or other conditions
justify a departure from this maximum.
      (2)   Block width. The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to
allow two tiers of lots of appropriate depth, unless it adjoins a railroad or
limited access highway and unless topographical conditions necessitate a single
tier of lots.
      (3)   Block use.  Blocks intended for business institutional, or
industrial use shall be of such widths as to be considered most suitable for
their respective use, including adequate space for off-street parking and
deliveries, loading, and such other facilities that may be required to
accommodate motor vehicles. The facilities shall be provided with safe and
convenient limited access to the street system.
      (4)   Pedestrian ways. Pedestrians ways and/or easements through blocks
may be required on blocks longer than 900 feet or in other areas to provide
access to schools, parks, and other destination points deemed desirable by the
Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council. Pedestrians ways shall be an
easement at least 20 feet wide through the block to provide for the crossing of
underground utilities and pedestrian traffic where needed or desirable, and the
City Council shall further require at its discretion that a ten-foot wide path
be included within the 20-foot wide easement as well as screened.
   (E)   Lots.
      (1)   All lots shall abut for their full-required minimum frontage on a
publicly dedicated street as specified by the zoning code, and shall have
direct access to a local street, collector street, or a minor arterial, except
where permitted under a planned unit development or a variance under this
chapter is granted.
      (2)   Lot dimensions shall comply with minimum lot area and other
dimensional requirements specified in the zoning code. This requirement shall
not apply to property used for a public purpose such as, but not limited to, a
well site or park.
      (3)   Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles to street
lines or radial to curved street lines.
      (4)   Lots shall be graded so as to provide drainage away from building
locations.
      (5)   Lots shall be placed to preserve and protect natural amenities,
such as tree growth, watercourses, bluffs, historic spots or similar
conditions, which if preserved, will add attractiveness and stability to the
proposed development.
      (6)   Lot remnants which are below the minimum lot size must be added by
the subdivided to adjacent or surrounding lots or be dedicated to the public if
the Council determines a public use can be served rather than be allowed to
remain as an unusable parcel.
      (7)   Double frontage lots with frontage on two parallel streets or
reverse frontage shall not be permitted, except where lots back onto an
arterial or collector street or where topographic or other conditions render
subdividing otherwise unreasonable. The lots shall have an additional depth of
at least 20 feet to accommodate vegetative screening along the back lot line.
      (8)   All lots must have a minimum width of 30 feet at the rear lot line.
      (9)   Corner lots shall be platted to have sufficient additional width to
permit appropriate building setbacks from both streets as required in the
zoning ordinance.
      (10)   No individual lot may extend over school district boundaries.
      (11)   Butt lots in subdivisions are to be discouraged. Where the lots
must be used to fit a particular type of design, they shall be platted at least
20 feet wider than the minimum width of the lots specified by the zoning code.
      (12)   The top of the foundation and the garage floor of all structures
shall be at minimum 18 inches and at maximum 36 inches above the grade of the
crown of the street upon which the property fronts. Exceptions to this standard
may be approved by the Zoning Administrator or designee for special
circumstances such as increased setback, site topography, flooding potential,
and the like, provided that proper site and area drainage is maintained and the
elevation of the structure is in keeping with the character of the area.
      (13)   When a tract is subdivided into larger than normal building lots
or parcels, such lots or parcels shall be so arranged as to permit the logical
location and openings of future streets and appropriate re-subdivision, with
provision for adequate utility connections for such re-subdivision.
      (14)   Lots abutting on a water course, drainage way, channel, stream,
lake, or pond, shall have an additional depth or width as required to assure
compliance with Floodplain and/or Shoreland Zoning and Surface-Water
Management.
      (15)   Street arrangements for the proposed subdivision shall not cause
undue hardship to owners for adjoining property in subdividing their own land
and providing convenient access to it.
      (16)   All proposed streets shown on the plat shall be in conformity with
the city and county comprehensive plans and shall be offered for dedication as
public streets.
   (F)   Tree and woodland preservation.
      (1)   A tree preservation and replacement plan shall be submitted in
accordance with §
153.065, Tree and Woodland Preservation, as amended, whichever is applicable.
      (2)   Each lot shall have at least two trees per lot in accordance with §
153.062, Landscaping and Turf Establishment, as amended, whichever is
applicable.
   (G)   Erosion and sediment control. Grade and drainage requirements for each
plat shall be subject to approval of the City Engineer. The following controls
shall be practiced to manage erosion and sediment control:
      (1)   Where topsoil is removed, sufficient arable soil shall be set aside
for re-spreading over the developed area. Top soil shall be restored or
provided to a minimum depth of six inches and shall be of a quality at least
equal to the soil quality prior to development.
      (2)   The development shall conform to the natural limitations presented
by topography and soil so as to create the least potential for soil erosion.
      (3)   Erosion and sediment control measures shall be coordinated with the
different stages of construction and approved by city staff. Appropriate
control measures shall be installed prior to development when necessary to
control erosion. Silt fences or sod shall be installed right behind the curb or
if a sidewalk is in place right behind the sidewalk. If a sidewalk is located
in the front of the lot the developer or builder will be responsible for
sodding the boulevard between the sidewalk and the curb before a final
certificate of occupancy will be issued.
      (4)   Critical erosion areas exposed during construction shall be
protected with temporary vegetation, mulching, or other acceptable means.
      (5)   Sediment basins, (debris basins, desilting basins, or silt traps)
shall be installed and maintained to remove sediment from runoff waters from
land subject to earth disturbance activities.
      (6)   Diversions shall be installed to divert surface water runoff from
slopes of 10% or steeper.
      (7)   Provisions shall be made to effectively accommodate increased
runoff caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and after
development.
      (8)   Cut and fill slopes shall be no steeper than three feet horizontal
to one foot vertical unless stabilized by a retaining wall, riprap, or other
acceptable means.
      (9)   Driveway grades cannot be steeper than 10% measured along the
centerline of the driveway.
      (10)   During grading operations, necessary measures for dust control as
required by the city shall be implemented.
      (11)   Detailed requirements for each plat shall be set forth in a
development agreement.
      (12)   Land shall be developed in increments of workable size such that
adequate erosion and siltation controls can be provided as construction
progresses. The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any one
period of time.
   (H)   Drainage. The natural drainage system shall be used to the maximum
extent feasible for the storage and flow of runoff. The design of the drainage
system shall conform to and incorporate provisions for storm water runoff
consistent with the Lonsdale Storm Water Management Plan as amended, and with
established city policies, and conform to the following standards:
      (1)   Proposed drainage facilities shall have adequate capacity to
accommodate potential runoff from their entire upstream drainage area, whether
within or without the subdivision; (The effect of the subdivision on existing
downstream drainage areas outside the subdivision shall be considered in
evaluating the adequacy of the Storm Water Management Plan.)
      (2)   Storm water runoff shall be discharged to marsh lands, swamps,
detention basins or other treatment facilities in a manner consistent with the
requirements of the city and county engineers;
      (3)   No existing ditch, stream, drain or drainage canal shall be
deepened, widened, rerouted or filled without review and approval by the city;
      (4)   Quality of storm water runoff and water infiltrated to the water
table shall remain undisturbed to the maximum extent feasible by development of
the subdivision; and
      (5)   The drainage system shall be constructed and operational as part of
the first stage of development and construction.
   (I)   Environmental assessment worksheet.
      (1)   An Environmental Assessment Worksheet (EAW) shall be submitted if
the City Council, State Environmental Quality Board or other groups or agencies
determine that one is required by law.
      (2)   Whenever a project which does not require an environmental
assessment worksheet may potentially negatively impact the environment, the
state, the county, or city may require the preparation of a discretionary
environmental assessment worksheet in order to determine whether an
environmental impact statement is needed.
   (J)   Sidewalks and trails. Sidewalks and trails shall be required as
follows:
      (1)   Commercial areas shall be required to have six-foot wide concrete
sidewalks located on both sides of a street unless a ten-foot wide trail is
designated by the Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   Industrial areas shall have no requirement unless the Planning and
Zoning Commission and the City Council deems it appropriate to provide access
to schools, parks, and other destination points. If concrete sidewalks are
deemed necessary, sidewalks of not less than six feet wide shall be provided
and/or a ten-foot wide trail.
      (3)   Residential areas shall be required to have six-foot wide concrete
sidewalks located on at least one side of all local streets. On collector
streets a six-foot wide concrete sidewalk shall be provided on at least one
side or both sides of the street unless a ten-foot wide trail is designated by
the Comprehensive Plan or deemed appropriate by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the City Council. Sidewalks shall not be required on cul-de-
sacs.
   (K)   Protected areas.
      (1)   Where land proposed for subdivision contains drainage ways,
watercourses floodable areas, wetlands, or steep slopes, and thus may be
unsuitable for development, the platting and development of those areas shall
be consistent with limitations presented by such conditions.
      (2)   Subdivisions shall be designed so that at least 90% of the minimum
lot area is free of wetland soil types, water bodies, watercourses, drainage
ways, or floodway area, or steep slopes (over 18%).
      (3)   No construction or grading shall be allowed on slopes steeper than
18% in grade over a horizontal distance of 50 feet.
   (L)   Minimum design features. The design features set forth in this chapter
are minimum requirements. The city may impose additional or more stringent
requirements concerning lot size, streets, and overall design as deemed
appropriate due to the property being subdivided.
(Ord. 78A, passed 8-22-1985; Am. Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006) Penalty, see
§
152.99
§ 152.25 EASEMENTS.
   All easements shall be dedicated by appropriate language on the final plat
in accordance with the following:
   (A)   Easements at least ten feet wide (generally five feet along both sides
of property line) shall be provided for utilities where necessary. If
appropriate, easements of lesser width may be allowed by the city. All utility
easements shall have continuity of alignment from block to block.
   (B)   Easements shall be provided along each side of the centerline of any
watercourse or drainage channel, whether or not shown in the comprehensive plan
to a width sufficient to provide proper maintenance and protection and to
provide for storm water run-off from a ten year storm. Where necessary,
drainage easements, corresponding to lot lines shall be provided. The easements
for drainage purposes shall not be less than 20 feet in width.
   (C)   Easements established over wetlands and utility/pipelines may be
excluded from the calculation of minimum lot area, as defined by this chapter.
   (D)   The city may, at its discretion, choose to require outlots rather then
easements for wetlands, drainage ways, and other natural features.
   (E)   In addition to other open space, dedication of easement to provide
connections to public trails will be required where shown on a comprehensive
plan and/or recommended by the Park and Recreation Board. Pedestrian easements
with right-of-way widths of not less than ten feet shall be required where
deemed necessary to provide circulation, or access to schools, playgrounds,
shopping centers, transportation and other community facilities.
   (F)   All utilities in all new subdivisions shall be placed underground
unless the subdivision is in an existing platted block or an existing partially
platted block, in which case allowance for placing some utilities above ground
will be considered if overhead utilities are already installed in the block.
(Ord. 78A, passed 8-22-1985; Am. Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006)
§ 152.26 DEDICATION OF LAND.
   (A)   As a prerequisite to subdivision approval, subdividers shall dedicate
land for parks, playgrounds, recreational areas or public open space and/or
shall make a cash payment to the city's park fund as provided by this section.
Such dedication of land for public use shall be without restriction or
reservation and shall be transferred to the city by dedication in the plat.
   (B)   In all new subdivisions, at least 10% of the gross area of all
property being subdivided shall be dedicated for parks, playgrounds, public
open space or other public use. Such percentages shall be in addition to the
property dedicated for streets, alleys, drainage ways, pedestrian ways or other
public ways. Slopes in excess of 18%, wetlands, ponding areas and natural
waterways shall not be accepted by the city as a part of the park land
dedication requirements. Storm water ponding areas may be incorporated into the
park land but shall not be considered a part of the park land dedication.
   (C)   Where a proposed park, playground, school site or other public site
shown on the Comprehensive Plan, Growth Development Plan or official map is
embraced in whole or in part by a boundary of a proposed subdivision and such
public sites are not dedicated to the city, such public ground shall be
dedicated in the plat to the city. If the subdivider does not choose to
dedicate an area in excess of the required 10% of such proposed site, the city
may take other action to obtain use of such site.
   (D)   Land to be dedicated shall be reasonably suitable for its intended use
and shall be at a location convenient to the people to be served. Factors used
in evaluating the adequacy of proposed parks, playgrounds, open space or other
public lands and recreation areas shall include size, shape, topography,
geology, soil types, hydrology, tree cover, access and location.
   (E)   No areas may be dedicated as park, playground, or public land until
such area has been approved for the purpose to which it is to be dedicated. The
subdivider shall leave such dedicated land in a condition acceptable to the
city.
   (F)   If in the judgment of the Council the area proposed to be dedicated is
not suitable or desirable for park/playground purposes because of location,
size or other reason, the city may require a cash payment in lieu of land
dedication. The amount of cash payment shall be in accordance with the fee
schedule adopted by the Council. The city may elect to accept a combination of
land dedicated for park use and a cash payment.
   (G)   The park cash payment shall be calculated at the time of final plat
approval. The Council may require the payment at the time of final plat
approval or at a later time under terms agreed upon in the subdivision
contract. Delayed payment shall include interest at a rate set by the city.
   (H)   Cash payments shall be deposited in the city's Park and Recreation
Department Fund and shall only be used for planning, acquisition or development
of parks, playgrounds, public open space and for trails, pedestrian ways and
sidewalks.
   (I)   Parks bordered on one or more sides by existing creeks or streams
shall ensure access to the park is provided from a public street and that
pathways that allow emergency motorized vehicle traffic within the park are
present.
   (J)   Property being re-platted with the same number of lots and same number
of dwelling units shall be exempt from all park land dedication requirements.
If the number of lots or the number of dwelling units is increased, or if land
outside the previously recorded plat is added, then the park land dedication
and/or park cash contributions shall be based on the additional lots and on the
additional land being added to the plat. If the additional land does not create
additional lots, then each 1/3 acre added shall be considered a new lot for
purposes of calculating the dedication requirements.
   (K)   When land is dedicated and deeded to the city for park purposes, it
shall be the responsibility of the city to maintain such dedicated property.
   (L)   Land dedication to the city shall be in the form of lots or outlots
with approved lot and block numbers.
   (M)   The Developer shall be responsible for grading and seeding or sodding
of required parkland, to city specifications.
   (N)   Church, school, government buildings and other non-profit
organizations who operate and are based within the city limits may be exempt
from the requirements specified in this section, by action of the City Council.
If the property that is exempt from park dedication is ever subdivided,
replatted, or sold and used for other purposes than those mentioned above, it
will be subject to the requirements specified in this section.
   (O)   Where private open space for park and recreation purposes is provided
in a proposed subdivision, the areas may not be used for credit against the
requirement of dedication for park and recreation purposes.
(Ord. 78A, passed 8-22-1985; Am. Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006)
§ 152.27 OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Where certain land areas or structures are provided within the
subdivision for private recreational use or as common service facilities, the
owner of the land and buildings shall enter into an agreement with the city to
assure their continued operation and maintenance to a predetermined reasonable
standard.
   (B)   These common areas may be placed under the ownership of one of the
following, depending upon which is more appropriate in the discretion of the
city:
      (1)   Dedicated to the public where a community-wide use would be
anticipated;
      (2)   Subdivider's ownership and control; or
      (3)   Landowner's (Homeowners) Association ownership and control,
provided all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The Landowner's (Homeowners) Association is established prior to
the sale of any lot;
         (b)   Membership must be mandatory for each owner and any successor in
interest;
         (c)   The open space restriction must be in perpetuity and not for a
specified term of years;
         (d)   The Association must be responsible for liability insurance,
local taxes and the maintenance of residential and other facilities;
         (e)   Landowners (homeowners) must pay their pro rata share of
associated costs and the assessment levied by the Association shall become a
lien on the property in accordance with the law; and;
         (f)   The Association must be able to adjust the assessment to meet
changed circumstances and needs.
(Ord. 78A, passed 8-22-1985; Am. Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006)
§ 152.28 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Improvements listed and described. Public improvements shall be made
in every plat and the subdivider shall have agreed in the manner set forth
below to the following improvements and those additional improvements required
by the resolution granting approval of the preliminary plat.
      (1)   Survey monuments. All subdivision boundary corners, block, and lot
corners, road intersection corners and points of tangency and curvature shall
be marked with durable iron or steel monuments meeting the minimum requirements
of state law. Permanent monuments shall be marked with durable iron or steel
monuments meeting the minimum requirements of state law. Permanent monuments
shall be at all quarter-quarter section points within the subdivision plat or
on its perimeter. At all sections, quarter sections, meander or witness corners
of the government survey within the subdivision on its perimeter or otherwise
shown on the face of the plat, a county cast iron monument shall be placed and
a certificate of location of a government corner shall be filed with the Office
of the County Recorder. The notation of “Rice County Monument” shall be placed
on the face of the plat by each monument so shown. In addition, a “Rice County
Monument” shall be placed and a certificate filed for each government survey
corner necessary to survey the boundaries of the plat if the monument has not
already been set and a certificate filed. All U.S., state, county and other
official benchmark monuments or triangulation station in or adjacent to the
property shall be preserved in position unless a relocation is approved by the
controlling agency. The City Council may, when a subdivision is essentially
complete, require a development to have the plat restaked to replace the
original monuments destroyed or obliterated during the construction process.
      (2)   All streets shall be graded and surfaced in accordance with
applicable standard specifications of the city, and subject to inspection and
approval by the City Engineer
      (3)   Concrete curbs, gutters, drainage, and drainage structures in
accordance with standards of the city, and subject to the inspection and
approval of the City Engineer.
      (4)   Drain tiles placed behind the curb for all lots to provide adequate
sump pump access to homes.
      (5)   Street identification signs at all street intersections within or
abutting the subdivision of a type approved by the city and placed in
accordance with the standards of the city. The city may elect to order and
place the street signs and charge the purchase and installation costs to
developer.
      (6)   Water mains and service connections, sufficient to serve all lots
in the subdivision must be stubbed to the property line.
      (7)   Each lot must be connected to public sanitary sewer subject to the
approval of the City Engineer.
      (8)   Sanitary sewer and water mains must be installed including
extension of both to the boundaries of the property being platted.
      (9)   Provisions shall be made for the proper drainage of all streets
through the installation of adequately designed culverts, storm sewers,
retention ponds and the like, and the installation thereof shall be considered
part of the essential street construction requirements. The developer will be
responsible for the first cleaning of the stormwater ponds, which will not be
maintained by the city until approved by the City Engineer and Public Works
Superintendent.
      (10)   Provisions shall be made for the installation of sidewalks or
trails at locations designated by the city.
      (11)   Decorative street lighting with underground wiring in accordance
with the city specifications.
      (12)   Plans for final grading and planting of appropriate ground cover
on vacant lots may be required of the subdivider as a condition of city
acceptance of the public improvements identified in this section.
      (13)   Franchised and public utilities including telephone, cable TV,
electric, and gas service lines are to be placed underground. Conduits, pipes,
or cable shall be placed within easements or in right-of-ways adjacent to
streets in such a manner as not to conflict with other underground services.
All utilities within the right-of-ways shall comply with the city's right-of-
way management ordinance, §§
92.15 through
92.36, as amended, whichever is applicable.
      (14)   Every buildable lot shall be identified by a sign that indicates
the lot and block number, and address, if available, which is approved by city
staff issuing any building permits. These signs can be removed as lots are
developed.
      (15)   Developer shall pay a civil defense siren fee as set by City
Council for newly developed land outside of the original plat of the city.
      (16)   Planting, gateways, entrance areas shall be improved with weed
free sod or the area shall be controlled with hay bales or riprap to avoid
erosion as approved by the City Engineer. Planting trees, including the type
and spacing of the trees on public property, will be subject to the regulations
of the City Council. No planting, gateways, entrances, and similar improvements
may be made on public property except with permission and approval of the
Council.
   (B)   Participation of the city. The city may elect to install any, all, or
none of the required improvements pursuant to a cash escrow agreement or other
financial arrangement with the subdivider. The terms of these arrangements
shall be specified in the subdivision contract.
   (C)   Subdivision contract. In order to effectuate the provisions of this
chapter and before the final plat is signed by the city, the owner and
subdivider shall enter into a subdivision contract with the city providing for
the installation of the required improvements and shall pay all applicable fees
and any required cash payment.
      (1)   Subdivider's expense.  The subdivision contract shall require the
subdivider to furnish and construct such improvements at the subdivider's sole
cost and in accordance with plans and specifications prepared at the
subdivider's expense by a professional engineer who is registered in the state
and who shall certify the plans. Such plans and a listing of the quantities of
construction items shall be submitted to the City Engineer for approval and for
estimate of the total cost of the required improvements. Upon approval, such
plans shall become a part of the required subdivision contract. The tracing of
the plans approved by the Engineer, plus two prints, shall be furnished to the
city.
      (2)   Inspection. All required improvements shall be inspected by the
City Engineer during construction at the expense of the subdivider. The
subdivision contract shall contain a provision for supervision of details of
construction by the City Engineer and shall grant to the Engineer the authority
to correlate the work to be done under such contract by any subcontractor
authorized to proceed thereunder with any other work being done or contracted
by the city in the vicinity.
      (3)   Schedule.  The subdivision contract shall include the time schedule
for completion of the work. The schedule shall be reasonable with relation to
the work to be done, the seasons of the year, and proper correlation with
construction activities in the subdivision. In all cases installation of
improvements shall be completed within three years unless an extension is
granted by the city.
      (4)   Park dedication. The subdivision contract shall contain provisions
for the park dedication/cash payment.
      (5)   Financial guarantees.  The subdivision contract shall require the
subdivider to provide a financial guarantee to assure installation of all
required improvements. In such event the amount of the guarantee may be reduced
by a sum equal to the estimated cost of the improvements that have been
completed and accepted by the city. The financial guarantee required as part of
the contract shall be one of the following:
         (a)   Escrow deposit.  A cash escrow may be deposited with the City
Treasurer in a sum equal to 105% of the City Engineer's estimate of the total
cost of all the improvements to be furnished and installed by the subdivider
pursuant to the contract. The total cost shall include costs of inspection by
the City Engineer and staff. The city shall be entitled to reimburse itself out
of such deposit for any cost or expense incurred by the city for completion of
the work in case of default of the subdivider under such contract and for any
damages sustained on account of any breach thereof.
         (b)   Letter of credit. The subdivider may deposit with the city, from
a bank or other reputable institution or individual subject to the approval of
the city, a letter of credit which shall certify:
            1.   That the creditor does guarantee funds in an amount equal to
105% of the City Engineer's estimate of the total cost of completing all
required improvements;
            2.   That the creditor, in the case of failure on the part of the
subdivider to complete the specified improvements within the required time
period, shall, upon written notification by the city, immediately and without
further action pay to the city such funds as are necessary to finance the
completion of those improvements, up to the limit of credit stated in the
letter.
            3.   That this letter of credit shall not be withdrawn, reduced in
amount, revised or amended in its terms until approved by the Council.
            4.   That this letter of credit shall automatically renew for one
year after its initial term.
      (6)   Other fees.  
         (a)   Fees and charges, as well as expenses incurred by the city for
engineering, planning, legal, and other services related to the processing of
applications under this chapter shall be established by the Council and
collected by the City Administrator for deposit in the city's accounts. Fees
shall be established for the processing of requests for platting, major and
minor subdivisions, review of plans, and such other subdivision related
procedures as the Council may from time to time establish. The Council may also
establish charges for public hearings, special meetings, or other such Council
actions as are necessary to process applications.
         (b)   Such fees, charges and estimated expenses (as well as a deposit
or escrow, if so required by city policy) shall be collected prior to city
action on any application. All such applications shall be accompanied by a
written statement between the city and the applicant/landowner whereby the
applicant/landowner agrees to pay all applicable fees, charges and expenses as
set by Council resolution, and which allows the city to assess the above fees,
charges and expenses against the landowner if such monies are not paid within
30 days after a bill is sent to the applicant/landowner. When the applicant is
not the same person or entity as the landowner, both the landowner and the
applicant must sign the agreement.
         (c)   These fees shall be in addition to building permit fees,
inspection fees, trunk water, trunk sanitary sewer, trunk storm water facility
costs, zoning fees, charges, expenses and other such fees, charges and expenses
currently required by the city or which may be established in the future.
         (d)   If applicable, the city shall require the subdivider to deposit
in escrow an amount to assure that landscaping is completed satisfactorily. The
city shall administer the landscaping deposit according to standard city
procedures as stated in §
153.065, tree and woodland preservation as amended, whichever is applicable or
§
153.062, landscaping and turf establishment as amended, whichever is
applicable.
      (7)   As-built drawings. Upon completion of the project, as-built
drawings of all improvements shall be filed with the Public Works
Superintendent. Such as-built drawings shall show the date of construction and
shall be drawn in such a manner and on such materials to meet the standards of
the city. As-built drawings must be completed and filed with the Public Works
Superintendent within 120 days of the completion of such improvements. If as-
built drawings are not filed within the time period specified, the City Council
may authorize the City Engineer to conduct surveys and complete drawings, with
all of the costs pursuant thereto to be paid by the owner, and the City Council
may elect to withhold building permits for construction within the subdivision.
(Ord. 78A, passed 8-22-1985; Am. Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006) Penalty, see
§
152.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.40 VARIANCES/WAIVERS.
   (A)   (1)   When necessary, the Council upon recommendation by the Planning
and Zoning Commission, may authorize variances to the requirements of this
chapter (not procedural provisions). The subdivider shall request in writing at
the time of the application for preliminary plat approval, and shall state the
grounds for each variance request. A variance may be granted only if the City
Council finds all of the following:
         (a)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property that are not common to all other properties in the area.
         (b)   That the variance is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of substantial property rights enjoyed by other properties of the
same vicinity.
         (c)   That extraordinary hardship would result from strict compliance
with these regulations because of special circumstances or conditions affecting
the property.
         (d)   That the granting of a variance will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety or public welfare nor injurious to other property in the
vicinity of the property involved.
         (e)   That the special circumstances and conditions causing the undue
hardship do not result from the actions of the applicant.
      (2)   In granting a variance, the City Council shall make a written
record of the findings of fact in connection therewith.
   (B)   The Council may waive compliance with any of the provisions of this
chapter by adoption of a resolution by a 4/5 or greater vote specifying which
provisions have been waived after review of the application by the Planning and
Zoning Commission in either of the following situations:
      (1)   In which compliance will involve an unnecessary hardship and where
failure to comply does not interfere with the purpose of this chapter; or
      (2)   Where an improved plat can be achieved by a deviation from the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 78A, passed 8-22-1985; Am. Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006)
§ 152.41 FILING AND RECORDING.
   (A)   Except as provided herein, no conveyances of land shall be filed or
recorded if the land is described in the conveyance by metes and bounds or by
reference to an unapproved registered land survey made after April 21, 1961, or
to an unapproved plat.
   (B)   The foregoing provision does not apply to a conveyance if the land
described:
      (1)   Was a separate parcel of record April 1, 1945, or the date of
adoption of subdivision regulations under Laws 1945, Chapter 287, whichever is
the latter, or of the adoption of subdivision regulations pursuant to a home
rule charter;
      (2)   Was the subject of a written agreement to convey entered into prior
to such time:
      (3)   Was a separate parcel not less than two and one-half acres in area
and 150 feet in width on January 1, 1966;
      (4)   Was a separate parcel not less than five acres in area and 300 feet
in width on July 1, 1980;
      (5)   Is a single parcel of commercial or industrial land of not less
than five acres and having a width of not less than 300 feet and its conveyance
does not result in the division of the parcel into two or more lots or parcels,
any one of which is less than five acres in area or 300 feet in width; or
      (6)   Is a single parcel of residential or agricultural land of not less
than 20 acres and having a width of not less than 500 feet and its conveyance
does not result in the division of the parcel into two or more lots or parcels,
any one of which is less than 20 acres in area or 500 feet in width.
   (C)   In any cases in which compliance with the foregoing restrictions will
create an unnecessary hardship and failure to comply does not interfere with
the purpose of these subdivision regulations the City Council may waive such
compliance by adoption of a resolution to that effect and the conveyance may
then be filed or recorded.
   (D)   Any owner or agent of the owner of land who conveys a lot or a parcel
in violation of the provisions of this section shall forfeit and pay to the
city a penalty of not less than $100 for each parcel so conveyed.
   (E)   The city may enjoin the conveyance or may recover the penalty by civil
action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 78A, passed 8-22-1985, Am. Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006)
§ 152.42 REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS.
   Persons desiring to subdivide property that is subject to a Registered Land
Survey (“RLS”) shall present the RLS to the city in the form of a preliminary
plat in accordance with the standards set forth in this chapter. Tracts to be
used as easements or roads shall be designated thereon. As to Registered Land
Surveys containing more than four tracts, the Planning and Zoning Commission
and City Council must approve of the arrangement, size and relationship of the
proposed tracts, in accordance with standards and procedures for review of
standard as heretofore described, shall be required. Absent required approvals,
as herein provided, building permits on the proposed tracts shall be withheld,
tracts conveyed to the city for streets or roads shall not be acceptable and no
public monies shall be expended for the installation of utilities or
improvements for any tracts.
(Ord. 78A, passed 8-22-1985; Am. Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006)
§ 152.43 BUILDING PERMITS.
   The city will not issue building permits for the construction of any
building, structure or improvements to the land or any lot in the subdivision,
as defined herein, which has been approved for platting until there has been
full compliance with all the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 78A, passed 8-22-1985; Am. Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006)
§ 152.44 AMENDMENTS/REPEAL.
   (A)   Amendments. The provisions of this chapter shall be amended by the
City Council following a legally advertised public hearing before the Planning
Commission and in accordance with the law, including the rules and regulations
of any applicable state or federal agency. An amendment to this chapter may be
initiated by public request, the Planning Commission or City Council.
   (B)   Repeal. All provisions previously in effect pertaining to the
subdivision or platting of land within the city are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006)
§ 152.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, trade or otherwise convey or
offer to sell, trade or otherwise convey any lot or parcel of land as a part
of, or in conformity with, any plan, plat or replat of any subdivision or area
located within the jurisdiction of this chapter unless said plan, plat or
replat shall have first been recorded in the Office of the Rice County Recorder
or waived as provided for in §§
152.41 and
152.42 of this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to receive or record in any public
office any plans, plats or replats of land laid out in building lots and street
rights-of-way, alleys or other portions of the same intended to be dedicated to
public or private use, or for the use of purchasers or owners of lots fronting
on or adjacent thereto, and located within the city, unless the same shall bear
thereon, by endorsement or otherwise, the review of the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the approval of the City Council or waived as provided for in §§
152.41 and
152.42 of this chapter.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person, owning an addition or subdivision of
land within the city, to represent that any improvements upon any of the
streets, right-of-ways, alleys or avenues of said addition or subdivision, or
any utility has been constructed within an addition or subdivision according to
the plans and specifications approved by the City Council, or have been
supervised or inspected by the city, when such improvements have not been so
constructed, supervised, or inspected.
   (D)   Convictions for violations of a section, subdivision, paragraph or
provision of this chapter by performing an act herein prohibited or declared
unlawful, or failure to act when such failure is prohibited or declared
unlawful shall be punished as a misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in
specific provisions hereof.
(Ord. 2006-193, passed 4-27-2006)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Purpose and intent
   
153.002   Rules
   
153.003   Definitions
   
153.004   Application of this chapter
   
153.005   Private agreements
   
153.006   Separability
   
153.007   Accessory buildings, structures, uses
   
153.008   Nonconforming uses
Administration
   
153.020   Enforcing officer
   
153.021   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
153.022   Board of Appeals and Adjustment
   
153.023   Zoning amendments
   
153.024   Conditional use permits
   
153.025   Variances
   
153.026   Interim uses
   
153.027   Enforcement
Zoning Districts And Provisions
   
153.040   Zoning districts
   
153.041   Zoning map
   
153.042   Exemptions
Performance Standards
   
153.055   Intent
   
153.056   Storage and disposal of chemicals
   
153.057   Nuisances
   
153.058   Height regulations and modifications
   
153.059   Private sewers and water systems standards
   
153.060   Land reclamation
   
153.061   Drainage
   
153.062   Landscaping and turf establishment
   
153.063   Lot provisions
   
153.064   Screening
   
153.065   Tree and woodland preservation
   
153.066   Site plans
   
153.067   Exterior storage
   
153.068   Use and parking of mobile homes, travel trailer and similar vehicles
for business or industry
   
153.069   Reserved
   
153.070   Reserved
   
153.071   Fences
   
153.072   Permitted yard/setback encroachments
   
153.073   Home occupations
   
153.074   Residential single-family dwellings
   
153.075   Zero lot line provisions
   
153.076   Traffic control
   
153.077   Off-street parking and storage on residential property
   
153.078   Off-street parking, loading, and access
   
153.079   Signs
   
153.080   Wireless telecommunications service
   
153.081   Swimming pools
   
153.082   Retaining walls
 
   
Appendix A:   Schedule of uses by district
   
Appendix B:   Schedule of zoning district regulations for area, bulk, placement
and land use intensity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Short title. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
“Lonsdale Zoning Code.”
   (B)   Purpose and intent. This chapter is adopted for the following
purposes:
      (1)   To promote the health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare of the inhabitants of the city;
      (2)   To minimize congestion in the public rights-of-way, securing safety
from fire, panic and other dangers, provide for adequate light and air, and
preventing the overcrowding of land;
      (3)   Avoiding undue concentration of population, facilitating the
adequate provisions of transportation, water, sewage, parks, and other public
requirements;
      (4)   To promote a more efficient and desirable utilization of land by
recognizing special land features, such as topography, soils, vegetation,
wetland areas, and wildlife;
      (5)   Conserving and developing natural resources and maintaining a high
standard of environmental quality;
      (6)   To divide the city into zones or districts as to the compatible use
of land and structures for residential business, and industrial purposes;
      (7)   To prohibit the use of buildings, structures, and lands that are
incompatible with the intended use or development of lands within the specified
zones;
      (8)   Providing for the compatible and appropriate use of land throughout
the city;
      (9)   Promoting orderly development of residential, commercial,
industrial, recreational and public areas;
      (10)   Minimizing pollution of all types;
      (11)   Providing for the administration of this chapter and amendments
thereto;
      (12)   Defining the powers and duties of the administrative officers and
bodies;
      (13)   Describing penalties for the violation of provisions of this
chapter or any amendment thereto.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.002 RULES.
   The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction:
   (A)   Any use not herein expressly permitted is hereby expressly prohibited;
   (B)   The singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular;
   (C)   The present tense includes the past and future tense and the future,
the present;
   (D)   The word “shall” is mandatory and the word “may” is permissive;
   (E)   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
this chapter, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition
thereof.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context specifically indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING. Having a common border or property line or separated only by
streets, railroad tracks or a public utility right-of-way.
   ACCESS. A means of vehicular approach or entry to or exit from property.
   ACCESSORY USE, STRUCTURE OR BUILDING. A use, structure or building or
portion of a structure subordinate to and serving the principal use or
structure on the same lot and clearly and customarily incidental thereto.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for growing and producing field crops. Keeping
or producing of livestock and poultry and all activities incident thereto. The
term shall not include feedlots, the raising of fur-bearing animals, nor the
operations of riding academies, commercial stables and kennels.
   ALTERATION. Any change or rearrangement, other than incidental repairs, in
the supporting members of an existing building, such as bearing walls, columns,
beams, girders or interior partitions, as well as any change in doors or
windows, or any enlargement to or diminution of a building or structure,
whether horizontally or vertically, or the moving of a building or structure
from one location to another, which would prolong the building's life.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. A place where animals or pets are given medical or surgical
treatment and the boarding of animals is limited to short-term care incidental
to the hospital use.
   ANTENNA. Any structure or device used for the purpose of collecting or
radiating electromagnetic waves, including but not limited to directional
antennas, such as panels, microwave dishes and satellite dishes, and omni-
directional antennas, such as whip antennas.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family dwelling structure
which is arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a dwelling unit for
a single family.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or rezoned, or his or
her legal representative.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR–MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of
engines, motor vehicles or trailers, including body work, frame work, welding
and major painting surface.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR–MINOR. The replacement of any part or repair of any part
which does not require the removal of the engine head or pan, engine
transmission or differential; incidental body and fender work, minor painting
and upholstering service when the service above stated is applied to passenger
automobiles and trucks, not in excess of 7,000 pounds gross vehicle weight.
   AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATION. A retail place of business engaged primarily in
the sale of motor vehicle fuels, but also may be engaged in supplying goods and
services generally required in the operation and maintenance of motor vehicles.
These may include sale of petroleum products, sale and servicing of tires,
batteries, automotive accessories and replacement items, washing and
lubrication services and the performance of automotive maintenance and repair.
   BANNERS and PENNANTS. Attention-getting devices which resemble flags and are
of a paper, cloth or plastic-like material.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located entirely or partially underground,
but having half or less than its floor to ceiling height below the average
grade of the adjoining ground. A basement shall be counted as a story, except
that a basement, the ceiling of which does not extend more than five feet above
the curb level or above the highest level of the adjoining ground, shall not be
counted as a story.
   BERM. A mound of earth, or the act of pushing earth into a mound.
   BLOCK. An area of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, boundaries of a
subdivision or boundaries of the municipality.
   BOND. Any form of security including cash deposit, surety bond or letter of
credit in an amount and form satisfactory to the Council and filed with the
office of City Treasurer.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of the street right-of-way between the curb line or
surfaced roadway and the property line.
   BUFFER. The use of land, topography, difference in elevation, space, fences
or landscape planting to screen or partially screen a use or property from
division of another use or property, and thus reduce undesirable influences,
such as site, glare, noise, dust and other external effects.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods or materials of any kind. In addition, when the
structure is divided by party walls without opening, each portion of the
building so separated shall be deemed a separate building.
   BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED. A building separated on all sides from the
adjacent open space from other buildings or structure by a permanent roof and
by exterior walls or party walls, pierced only by windows and normal entrance
and exit doors.
   BUILDING COVERAGE. The horizontal area measured within the outside of the
exterior walls of the ground floor of all principal and accessory buildings on
a lot.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building surrounded by an open space on the same lot.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average ground
elevation adjoining the front walls of the building to the highest point of the
roof surface of a flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the
average height between the eaves and ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line on a lot, generally parallel to a lot line or
road right-of-way line, located a sufficient distance therefrom to provide the
minimum yards required by this chapter. The building setback lines delimit the
area in which buildings are permitted subject to all applicable provisions of
this chapter.
   BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL. A building which is arranged, designed, used or
intended to be used for residential occupancy by one or more families, and
which includes, but is not limited to, the following types:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings;
      (4)   Townhouses.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted, or in which is
intended to be conducted, the main or principal use of the lot on which it is
located.
   BUSINESS. Any establishment, occupation, employment or enterprises wherein
merchandise is manufactured, exhibited or sold, or where services are offered
for compensation.
   CALIPER. A measurement of the size of the tree equal to the diameter of its
trunk measured four and one-half feet above natural grade.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM. A proposed city schedule of future projects or
capital purchases listed in order of priority together with cost estimates and
the anticipated means of financing each project.
   CENTRAL WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM. A system serving a group of buildings, lots
or a defined area of the city.
   CHURCH. A building or edifice consecrated to religious worship, where people
join together in some form of public worship under the aegis and direction of a
person who is authorized under the laws of the State of Minnesota to solemnize
marriages. Camp meeting grounds, mikvahs, coffee houses, recreational
complexes, retreat houses, sleeping quarters for persons during spiritual
retreats extending for periods of more than one day, Bible camps with live-in
quarters, ritual slaughter houses, radio or television towers and transmission
facilities, theological seminaries, day care centers, hospitals and drug
treatment centers are not churches. A CHURCH as defined above may include
living quarters for persons employed on the premises of the church.
   CLINIC (MEDICAL). A building in which a group of physicians, dentists and/or
allied professional assistants are associated for carrying on their profession.
The clinic may include a dental or medical laboratory, but shall not include
in-patient care or operating rooms for major surgery.
   CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE. An association of persons who are bona fide members
paying annual dues, which owns, hires or leases the building, property or a
portion thereof; the use of the premises being restricted to members and their
guests. It shall be permissible to serve food and meals on the premises,
provided adequate facilities are available.
   COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE. Licensed commercial wireless
telecommunications service includes cellular, personal communications services
(PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobilized radio
(ESMR), paging and similar services that are marketed to the general public.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OR POLICIES. A computation of goals, policy statements,
standards, programs and maps for guiding the physical, social and economic
development, both public and private, as defined in the Minnesota Municipal
Planning Act, and includes any part of the plan separately adopted and any
amendment to the plan or parts thereof.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use permitted in a particular zoning district only upon
showing that the use in a specified location will comply with all the
restrictions and standards for that location or operation of the use as
specified by this chapter and authorized by the city.
   CONDOMINIUM. A form of individual ownership within a building which entails
joint ownership and responsibility for maintenance and repairs of the land and
other common property of the building.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN. The map or drawing accompanying a subdivision plat and
illustrating the specific location and design of improvements to be installed
in the subdivision in accordance with city engineering and city code
requirements and as conditioned in the approval of the plat.
   CONTOUR MAP. A map on which irregularities of land surface are shown by
lines connecting points of equal elevation. Contour interval is the vertical
height between contour lines.
   CONTRACTOR'S YARD. An area where vehicles, equipment and/or construction
materials and supplies commonly used by building, excavation, roadway
construction and similar contractors are stored or serviced. The CONTRACTOR'S
YARD includes both areas of outdoor storage and areas confined within a
completely enclosed building used in conjunction with a contractor's business.
   CONVALESCENT, NURSING AND REST HOME. A home for aged, chronically ill or
convalescent persons in which two or more persons not of the immediate family
are received, kept or provided with food, shelter and care of compensation, but
not including hospitals, clinics or similar institutions devoted primarily to
the diagnosis and treatment of disease or injury, maternity cases or mental
illness.
   COOPERATIVE. A multi-unit development operated for and owned by its
occupants. Individual occupants do not own their specific housing unit outright
as in a condominium, but they own shares in the enterprise.
   CORNER LOT. See LOT, CORNER.
   COUNTY. Rice County, Minnesota as appropriate.
   COUNTY RECORDER. The County Recorder when referring to abstract or
registered property under the Torrens system in Rice County.
   COVENANT. A contract between two individuals which constitutes a restriction
of a particular parcel of land.
   COVERAGE. See LOT COVERAGE.
   CUL-DE-SAC. See STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   DEFLECTION. The angle between a line and the prolongation of the preceding
line.
   DENSITY. A number expressing the relationship of the number of dwellings to
an acre of land.
   DEVELOPER. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her legal
representative.
   DEVELOPMENT. The division of a parcel of land into two or more parcels; the
construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation or
enlargement of any structure; any mining, excavation, landfill or land
disturbance, and any use or extension of the use of land.
   DEVELOPMENT IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A permanent ground low profile sign which
identifies a specific residential, industrial, commercial or office development
and which is located on the premises of the development which it identifies.
   DISTRICT. See ZONING DISTRICT.
   DRIVE-IN USE. An establishment which by design, physical facilities, service
or by packaging procedures encourages or permits customers to receive services,
obtain goods or be entertained while remaining in their motor vehicle.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for
human habitation, including single-family, two-family, multiple-family and
townhouse dwellings, but not including hotels or motels.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED. An attached dwelling is one which is joined to another
dwelling or building at one or more sides by a party wall or walls.
   DWELLING, DETACHED. A detached dwelling is one which is entirely surrounded
by open space on the same lot.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room, or rooms, located in a dwelling which are connected
together constituting a complete, separate and independent housekeeping unit
for owner occupancy, rental or lease, physically separated from any other room
or dwelling unit which may be in the same structure,  and containing
independent cooking, sleeping and sanitary facilities, but not including
hotels, motels, boarding or rooming houses, tourist homes, mobile homes, travel
trailers or tents.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building containing one dwelling unit
designed for occupancy by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached dwelling containing two dwelling units,
designed for occupancy by not more than two families.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY or APARTMENT BUILDING. A detached building
containing three or more dwelling units, with the number of families in
residence not exceeding the number of dwelling units provided. Condominiums and
cooperatively-owned multiple residential dwellings are multiple-family
dwellings for purposes of this chapter.
   EASEMENT. A limited ownership interest in land enabling the construction and
maintenance of public services and utilities thereon including, but not limited
to, sanitary sewers, water mains, electrical lines, telephone lines, storm
sewer or storm drainage facilities, gas lines, and conservation and pedestrian
trails.
   EFFICIENCY UNIT. A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room, exclusive
of bathroom, kitchen, hallway, closets or dining alcove directly off the
principal room.
   ESCROW. A deposit of cash with the local government in lieu of an amount
required and still in force on a performance or maintenance bond.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance of
underground, surface or overhead services such as but not limited to
electrical, communications, gas, steam, water and sewerage transmission and
collection systems, and the equipment and appurtenances necessary for the
systems to furnish an adequate level of public service.
   EXTERIOR STORAGE. The storage of goods, materials, equipment, manufactured
products and similar items not fully enclosed by a building.
   EXTRACTION. The removal, filling with, or storage of rock, sand, gravel,
clay, silt or other like material.
   EXTRACTION PERMIT. A permit approved by and issued by the city, to remove,
excavate, fill with or store rock, sand, gravel, clay, silt or other like
material.
   FACADE. That portion of any exterior elevation of a building exposed to
public view extending from grade to the top of the parapet wall or eaves and
the entire width of the building elevation.
   FAMILY. Any number of individuals generally but not necessarily related by
blood and marriage, living together at one location as a single nonprofit
housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding or
rooming house, tourist home, hotel or motel.
   FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination of
materials erected to enclose or screen areas of land.
   FENCE, SOLID. A solid fence is a fence which provides a visual barrier
between adjacent property and the area enclosed.
   FILL. Sand, gravel, earth or other material of any composition whatsoever
placed or deposited by humans.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. A financial institution is a commercial banking
establishment or savings and loan association chartered by the State of
Minnesota or the United States.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of
the building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the
centerline of walls separating two buildings. The floor area of a building
shall include basement floor area, elevator shafts and stairwells at each
floor, penthouses, attic space having headroom of 7 feet or more, interior
balconies and mezzanines, enclosed porches and floor-area devoted to accessory
uses. However, any space devoted to mechanical equipment, parking or loading
shall not be included in the floor area. The floor area for enclosed space
having a floor to ceiling height in excess of 20 feet shall be computed on the
basis that each 15 feet of height shall be equal to one floor for the purposes
of computation.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO (F.A.R.). The numerical value obtained by dividing the
floor area of a building by the total size of the lot.
   FRONT LOT LINE. See LOT LINE, FRONT.
   FRONT YARD. See YARD, FRONT.
   FRONTAGE. That boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated public
street.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or portion of the principal
building, including a car port, which is used primarily for storing passenger
vehicles.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building used for the storage or care of power driven
vehicles, or where the vehicles are equipped for operation, repair, or kept for
storage, hire or sale.
   GARDEN CENTER. A place of business where retail and wholesale products and
produce are sold to the retail consumer. These centers, which may include a
nursery and/or greenhouses, import most of the items sold. These items may
include plants, handicrafts, nursery products and stock, fertilizers, potting
soil, hardware, lawn and garden power equipment and machinery, hoes, rakes,
shovels and other garden and farm tools and utensils.
   GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A report in text and in map form with the map
drawn to scale depicting the general location and relationship of structures,
streets, driveways, recreation areas, parking areas, utilities and the like, as
related to a proposed development.
   GRADE. Grade is an average level of the finished surface of the ground
adjacent to the exterior walls of the building or structure, or the slope of a
street, specified in percentage terms.
   GREENHOUSE. A structure used for the cultivation or protection of flowers,
vegetables and nursery stock.
   GROUP HOME, RESIDENTIAL. A building or structure where persons reside for
purposes of rehabilitation, treatment or special care. Such persons may be
orphaned, suffer chemical or emotional impairment, or suffer social
maladjustment or dependency.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession carried on by a member of the
immediate family residing on the premises in connection with which there is no
display that will indicate from the exterior that the building is being
utilized in whole or in part for any purpose other than that of a dwelling.
There shall be no commodities sold upon the premises and no person employed
therein other than a member of the immediate family residing on the premises or
domestic servants; and no mechanical or electrical equipment shall be used
except such as is normally used for purely domestic or professional purposes.
No accessory buildings, other than existing agricultural accessory structures
on the effective date of this chapter, shall be used for home occupations.
Clinics, hospitals, barbershops, beauty parlors and animal hospitals are not
home occupations.
   HORTICULTURE USE. The use of land for the growing or production for income
of fruits, vegetables, flowers, nursery stock including plants and trees, and
cultured sod.
   HOSPITAL. An institution providing persons with intensive medical or
surgical care and devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of disease
or injury, maternity cases or mental illness.
   HOTEL. A building containing guest rooms in which lodging is provided with
or without meals for compensation and which is open to transient or permanent
guests or both, and where no provision is made for cooking in any guest room,
and which ingress and egress to and from all rooms is made through an inside
lobby or office supervised by a person in charge.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Impervious surfaces are those which do not absorb water.
They consist of all buildings, parking areas, driveways, roads, sidewalks and
any areas of concrete or asphalt. In the case of lumberyards, areas of stored
lumber constitute impervious surfaces.
   INFORMATION/SALES CENTER. A building or model home which shall be used
solely for selling purposes of residential lots and/or homes within the
subdivision in which it is located or a nearby associated neighborhood. Such
buildings/homes may include temporary real estate offices. INFORMATION/SALES
CENTERS differ from model homes in that such centers typically:
      (1)   Are open for business more often;
      (2)   Require a greater number of staff; and
      (3)   Generate more vehicle traffic.
   JUNKYARD. An area where used, waste, discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, cleaned, packed, disassembled or
handled, including but not limited to scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags,
rubber products, bottles and lumber. A JUNKYARD includes an automobile wrecking
or dismantling yard, but does not include uses established in conjunction with
a permitted manufacturing process when within an enclosed area or building. The
storage of unlicensed and/or inoperable motor vehicles for a period in excess
of 30 days shall also be considered a junkyard.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any place where a person, firm, or corporation accepts
dogs, cats, or other common household pets from the general public and where
animals are kept for the purpose of selling, boarding, breeding, training,
treating or grooming.
   KENNEL, PRIVATE. Any place where more than two dogs or cats over six months
of age are kept or harbored, the animals being owned by the owner or lessee of
the premises wherein or whereupon the animals are kept or harbored.
   KEY MAP. A map drawn to comparatively small scale which definitely shows the
area proposed to be platted or developed and the areas surrounding it to a
given distance.
   LOADING SPACE. That portion of a lot designed to serve the purpose of
loading or unloading all types of vehicles.
   LOT. A separate parcel, tract or area of land undivided by any public street
or private road, which has been established by plat, metes and bounds
subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, and which is occupied by or
intended to be developed for and occupied by a principal building or group of
buildings and accessory buildings, or utilized for a principal use and uses
accessory thereto, including such open spaces and yards as are designed and
arranged or required by this chapter for the building, use or development.
   LOT, AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side or rear
lot lines, but not including any area occupied by the public rights-of-way.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection,
or upon two parts of the same street, the streets or parts of the same street
forming an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE. That portion or percentage of a lot which may be covered by
impervious surfaces.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line of a lot, measured within the lot lines. The greater frontage of
a corner lot is its depth, and its lesser frontage is its width.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. An interior lot having frontage on two streets.
   LOT FRONTAGE. Lot width measured at the front lot line.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE. A line of record bounding a lot which divides one lot from another
lot or from a right- of-way or any other public space.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line separating a lot from a street right-of-way.
In the case of a corner lot it shall be the boundary with the shortest
dimension on the street. In the case of lots with more than two street
frontages, the front lot line shall be the lot line having the legal street
address.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line which is parallel to and most distant from the
front lot line; or in the case of triangular or otherwise irregularly shaped
lots, a line 20 feet in length, entirely within lots, parallel to and at the
maximum possible distance from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line. A side lot
line separating a lot from a street is called a side street lot line. A side
lot line separating a lot from another lot or lots is called an interior side
lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. Any legally recorded lot which at the time of its recording
complied with all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot which fronts upon two parallel streets, or which fronts
upon two streets which do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot. On a
through lot, both street lot lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lines of a lot measured
at right angles to its depth along a straight line parallel to the front lot
line at the minimum required building setback line.
   LOT, ZONING. A zoning lot is a single tract of land which, at the time of
filing for a building permit, is designated by its owner or developer as a
tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit under single ownership or
control. A zoning lot or lots may or may not coincide with a lot of record.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one
or more sections, which in the traveling mode, is 8 body feet or more in width
or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more
square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used
as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and
electrical systems contained therein; except that the term includes any
structure which meets all the requirements and with respect to which the
manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development or the head of any
successor agency with responsibility for enforcement of federal laws relating
to manufactured homes and complies with the standards established pursuant to
M.S. §§ 327.31 and 327.35, as they may be amended from time to time. A
manufactured home is a dwelling.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. All manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging,
treatment or assembly of products and materials that may emit objectionable and
offensive influences beyond the lot on which the use is located. Such uses
include, but are not limited to the following: sawmill, refineries, commercial
feedlots, acid, cement, explosives, flour, seed and grain milling or storage,
meat packing, slaughter houses, coal or tar asphalt distillation, rendering of
fat, grease, lard or tallow, alcoholic beverages, poisons, exterminating
agents, glue or size, lime, gypsum, plaster of parts, tanneries, automobile
parts, paper and paper products, glass, chemicals, plastics, crude oil and
petroleum products, including storage, electric power generation facilities,
vinegar works, junkyard, auto reduction yard, foundry, forge, casting of metal
products, rock stone, cement products.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. Fabrication, processing or assembly employing only
electric or other substantially noiseless and inoffensive power sources,
utilizing hand labor or quiet machinery and processes, and free from
neighborhood disturbing agents, such as odors, gas, fumes, smoke, cinders,
flashing or excessively bright lights, refuse matter, electromagnetic
radiation, heat or vibration.
   METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION. A description of real property which is not
described by reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described by
starting at a known point and describing the bearings and distances of the
lines forming the boundaries of the property, or delineates a fractional
portion of a section, lot or area by described lines or portions thereof.
   MINERALS. The nonmetallic materials found in the earth including, but not
limited to, rock, sand, gravel, clay, silt and soil which may be covered by
overburden.
   MINI-WAREHOUSE. A building or group of buildings in a controlled access and
fenced compound that contains varying sizes of individual, compartmentalized,
and controlled-access stalls or lockers for the dead storage of a customer’s
goods or wares. No sales, service or repair activities other than the rental of
dead storage units are permitted on the premises, and outdoor storage must be
fully screened from public view at street level.
   MODEL HOME. A home which is similar to others in a residential development
and which is open to public inspection for the purpose of selling said other
homes. Such homes may include temporary real estate offices and shall be used
solely for selling purposes of residential lots and/or other homes within the
subdivision in which it is located or a nearby associated neighborhood.
   MOTEL, MOTOR COURT, MOTOR HOTEL. An establishment consisting of a group of
attached or detached living or sleeping accommodations with bathroom, located
on a single zoning lot and designed for use by transient automobile tourists,
and furnishing customary hotel services.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL. A building or area in which trucks, including
tractor or trailer units, are parked, stored, or serviced, including the
transfer, loading or unloading of goods. A terminal may include facilities for
the temporary storage of loads prior to trans-shipment.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any passenger vehicle, truck, truck-trailer, trailer or semi-
trailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. Any lot of record which does not comply with the minimum
lot area, frontage or depth requirements of the district in which it is
located, as required by this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign which lawfully existed on the effective date of
this chapter, or any amendments thereto, which does not conform to all the
applicable sign standards and regulations contained in this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. Any building or structure which lawfully existed on
the effective date of this chapter, or any amendments thereto, which does not
comply with the bulk, placement, land use intensity or height regulations of
the district in which it is located, as required by this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any use of land, buildings or structures lawfully
existing at the time of adoption of this chapter which use does not comply with
all the regulations of this chapter or any amendment hereto governing the
zoning district in which the use is located.
   NOXIOUS WATER OR MATERIAL. Material which is capable of causing injury to
living organisms by chemical reaction, or is capable of causing detrimental
effects on the physical or economic well-being of individuals.
   ODOROUS MATTER. Any material or matter that yields an odor which is
offensive in any way.
   OFFICE USES. Those commercial activities that take place in office
buildings, where goods are not produced, sold, or repaired. These include:
banks, general offices, professional offices, governmental offices, insurance
office, real estate office, travel agency or transportation ticket office,
telephone exchange, utility office, radio broadcasting and similar uses.
   OFFICIAL ZONING MAP. The map or maps which are a part of this chapter and
delineate the boundaries of the zoning districts.
   ON-SITE. Located on the lot in question, except in the context of on-site
detention, when the term means within the boundaries of the development site as
a whole.
   ON-SITE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A sewage treatment system or part thereof, as
described in Minnesota Regulations, Chapter 7080, or as amended.
   OPEN SPACE. Any open area not covered by structure or paving.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. The storage of any goods, junk, equipment, wood, trailers,
material, merchandise, supplies or vehicles not fully enclosed in a building
for more than 24 hours.
   OUTLOT. A platted lot to be developed for a use which will not involve a
building or to be reserved for future replatting before development.
   OVERBURDEN. Those materials which lie between the surface of the earth and
the material to be excavated.
   OWNER. The person or persons having the right of legal title to, beneficial
interest in, or a contractual right to purchase a lot or parcel of land.
   PARKING SPACE. A suitable surfaced and permanently maintained area on
privately owned property either within or outside of a building of sufficient
size to store one standard automobile.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public pedestrian walkway provided between lots where
required by the city to allow for pedestrian accessibility to streets or public
service areas. This may also be referred to as a RAILWAY.
   PERFORMANCE BOND. A bond granted by the person platting property to the city
to guarantee the installation of improvements required in this chapter.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. A financial guarantee to insure that all
improvements, facilities or work required by this chapter will be completed in
compliance with the ordinance, regulations and the approved plans and
specifications of a development.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARD. A criterion established to control noise, odor, toxic
or noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, glare or heat, or
other nuisance elements which a particular use, property or process may not
exceed.
   PERMITTED USE. Any use allowed in a zoning district, subject to the minimum
requirements and restrictions established in this chapter for that zoning
district.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association or body politic including any trustee,
receiver, assignee or other similar representative thereof.
   PLAT. A map or drawing which graphically delineates the boundary of and
layout for streets, lots and easements for a subdivision prepared for filing of
record pursuant to M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be amended from time to time
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The preliminary map, drawing or plan indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision to be submitted to the Planning Commission
and City Council for their consideration.
   PLAT, FINAL. The final map, drawing or plan on which the subdivider’s plan
of subdivision is presented to the City Council for approval and which, if
approved, will be submitted to the County Recorder.
   PLATTING AUTHORITY. The City Council.
   PREMISES. A lot, parcel, tract or plot of land together with the building
and structures thereon.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. See BUILDING, PRINCIPAL.
   PRINCIPAL USE. See USE, PRINCIPAL.
   PROHIBITED USE. A use that is not permitted in a zoning district under any
circumstances.
   PROPERTY LINE. See LOT LINE.
   PROCESSING. The crushing, washing, compounding or treating of rock, sand,
gravel, clay, silt or other like material.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts entered into between private parties that
constitute a restriction on the use of all private property within the platted
area, and provide mutual protection against undesirable aspects of development
which would tend to impair stability of values.
   PUBLIC LAND OR BUILDING. Land or building owned and/or operated by a
governmental unit.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Persons, corporations or governments supplying gas,
electric, transportation, water, sewer, or land line telephone service to the
general public. For the purpose of this chapter, COMMERCIAL WIRELESS
TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES shall not be considered a public utility use and is
defined separately (see COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE).
   PUBLICATION. An official notice as prescribed by state statutes in a
newspaper so designated for this purpose by the Council.
   REAR LOT LINE. See LOT LINE, REAR.
   REAR YARD. See YARD, REAR.
   RECREATION, COMMERCIAL. Includes all uses such as bowling alleys, driving
ranges and movie theaters that are privately-owned and operated with the
intention of earning a profit by providing entertainment for the public.
   RECREATION, PUBLIC. Includes all uses such as tennis courts, ballfield,
picnic areas and the like that are commonly provided for the public at parks,
playgrounds, community centers and other sites, owned and operated by a unit of
government for the purpose of providing recreation.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle or vehicular unit which can be driven or
which can be towed or hauled, and which is primarily designed as a temporary
living accommodations for recreational camping and travel use. Recreational
vehicles include travel trailers, camping trailers, truck campers and self-
propelled motor homes.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEY. A survey map of registered land designed to simplify
a complicated metes and bounds description, designating the same into tract or
tracts of registered land survey number.
   REHABILITATION. To renew the land to a self-sustaining, long-term use which
is compatible with contiguous land uses in accordance with the standards set
forth in this chapter.
   REPLAT. The platting of an area that was previously platted.
   RESEARCH LABORATORY. A research laboratory building, or group of buildings,
in which are located facilities for scientific research, investigation, testing
or experimentation, but not facilities for the manufacture or sale of products,
except as incidental to the main purpose of the laboratory.
   RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD. An establishment whose principal business is the sale
of food and/or beverages in a ready-to-consume state for consumption (1) within
restaurant building , (2) within  a motor vehicle parked on the premises, or
(3) off the premises as carry-out orders; and whose principal method of
operation includes the following characteristics (a) food and/or beverages are
usually served in edible containers or in paper, plastic or other disposable
containers; (b) the customer is not served food at his or her table by an
employee, but receives it at a counter, window or similar facility and carries
it to another location on or off the premises for consumption.
   RESTAURANT, STANDARD. An establishment whose principal business is the sale
of food and/or beverages to customers in a ready-to-consume state, and whose
principal method of operation includes one or both of the following
characteristics: (1) customers, normally provided with an individual menu, are
served their foods and beverages by a restaurant employee at the same table or
counter at which food and beverages are consumed; (2) a cafeteria-type
operation where food and beverages generally are consumed within the restaurant
building.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication, forced
dedication, prescription or condemnation and intended to be occupied or
presently occupied by a road, pedestrian walkway, railroad, electric
transmission lines, oil or gas pipeline, sewer and water lines and other
similar uses.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY LINES. The lines that form the boundaries of a right-of-way.
   SALVAGE YARD. See JUNKYARD.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure and the nearest
property line or roadway easement line.
   SEWAGE. Any water-carried domestic wastes, exclusive of footing and roof
drainage, from any industrial, agricultural or commercial establishment, or any
dwelling or other structure. Domestic waste includes, but is not limited to,
liquid waste produced by bathing, laundry, culinary operations and liquid
wastes from toilets and floor drains. Domestic waste specifically excludes
animal waste and commercial process wastes.
   SHOPPING CENTER. An integrated group of commercial establishments planned,
developed and managed as a unit, with off-street parking facilities provided
on-site.
   SIDE LOT LINE. See LOT LINE, SIDE.
   SIDE YARD. See YARD, SIDE.
   SIGN. Any object, device, display or structure, or part thereof, situated
outdoors or visible through a window or door, which is used to advertise,
announce, identify, display, direct or attract attention to  a object, person,
institution, organization, business, commodity, product, service, event or
location, by means including words, letters, figures, design, symbols,
fixtures, pictures, illumination or projected images.
   SIGN, ADDRESS. A sign which identifies the property number or numerical
address of the premises on which the sign is located.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. Any sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service, activity or entertainment not necessarily conducted, sold
or offered upon the premises where such a sign is located.
   SIGN ALTERATION. Any change, reconstruction, relocation or enlargement of a
sign, or of any of its component parts. Routine maintenance, the changing of
movable parts of signs which are designed for such changes, and the repainting
of sign copy and display matter shall not be deemed to be an alteration within
the context of this chapter.
   SIGN, AREA IDENTIFICATION. A free standing sign which identifies a specific
residential subdivision development, whether single-family or multi-family, or
an office and industrial park. Area identification signs shall be located on
the same premises as the development which it identifies.
   SIGN, BILLBOARD. See SIGN, ADVERTISING.
   SIGN, BULLETIN BOARD. A sign which identifies an institution or organization
on the premises of which it is located and which contains the name of the
institution or organization, the names of individuals connected with it, and
general announcements of events or activities occurring at the institution or
similar messages.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted, or to a commodity or service sold, offered or manufactured, or to an
entertainment offered on the premises where the sign is located.
   SIGN, BUSINESS DIRECTORY. A sign which identifies the names of specific
businesses located in a shopping center and which is located on the premises of
the shopping center so identified.
   SIGN, CAMPAIGN. A temporary sign announcing, promoting or supporting
political candidates or issues in connection with any national, state or local
election.
   SIGN, CANOPY OR MARQUEE. A sign which is mounted, painted on, or attached to
any projection or extension of a building that is designed in a manner as to
provide shelter or cover over the approach to any entrance of the building.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION. A temporary sign erected on the premises on which
construction is taking place, during the period of construction, indicating the
names of the architects, engineers, landscape architects, contractors or
similar artisans, and the owners, financial supporters, sponsors and similar
individuals or firms having a role or interest with respect to the situation or
project.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. A sign erected on private property for the purpose of
directing pedestrian or vehicular traffic onto or about the property upon which
the sign is located, including signs marking entrances and exits, circulation
direction, parking areas, and pickup and delivery areas.
   SIGN, FLASHING. Any directly or indirectly illuminated sign which exhibits
changing natural or artificial light or color effects by any means whatsoever.
   SIGN, FREE STANDING. Any nonmovable sign not affixed to a building.
   SIGN, GOVERNMENTAL. A sign erected and maintained pursuant to and in
discharge of any governmental functions, or required by law, ordinance or other
governmental regulation.
   SIGN, GROUND. Any sign, other than a pole sign, placed upon or supported by
the ground independent of any other structure.
   SIGN, GROUND LOW PROFILE BUSINESS. A business sign affixed directly to the
ground, with the sign display area not greater than two feet above the ground.
   SIGN HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the ground surface at the
base of the sign to the top of the sign.
   SIGN, HOLIDAY DECORATION. Temporary signs, in the nature of decorations,
clearly incidental to and customarily and commonly associated with any
national, local or religious holiday.
   SIGN, HOME OCCUPATION. A sign containing only the name and occupation of a
permitted home occupation.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign lighted by or exposed to artificial lighting
either by lights on or in the sign or directed towards the sign.
   SIGN, INSTITUTIONAL. A sign which identifies the name and other
characteristics of a public or private institution of the site where the sign
is located.
   SIGN, MOTION. Any sign or part of a sign which changes physical position by
any movement or rotation or which gives the visual impression of the movement
or rotation.
   SIGN, NAMEPLATE. A sign, located on the premises, which bears the name and/
or address of the occupant of the building or premises.
   SIGN, NONCONFORMING. Any sign which lawfully existed prior to the adoption
of this chapter, but does not conform to the newly enacted requirements of this
chapter.
   SIGN, POLE OR PYLON. A free-standing sign erected upon a pole, post of other
similar support so that the bottom edge of the sign display area is eight feet
or more above the ground elevation at the base of the sign
   SIGN, PORTABLE. A sign designed so as to be movable from one location to
another, and that is not permanently affixed to a building, structure or the
ground.
   SIGN, PRIVATE SALE OR EVENT. A temporary sign advertising private sales or
personal property such as house sales, garage sales and the like or private
not-for-profit events such as picnics, carnivals, bazaars, game nights, art
fairs, craft shows and Christmas tree sales.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign that is wholly or partly dependent upon a building
for support and which projects more than 12 inches from the building.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign pertaining to the sale or lease of the premises,
or a portion of the premises, on which the sign is located.
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign that is mounted on the roof of a building or which is
wholly dependent upon a building for support and which projects above the roof
line of a building with a flat roof, the eave line of a building with a
gambrel, gable or hip roof or the deck line of a building with a mansard roof.
   SIGN, ROTATING. A sign which revolves or rotates on its axis by mechanical
means.
   SIGN, SURFACE AREA OF. The entire area with a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of the actual sign surface, not including any
structural elements outside the limits of the sign and not forming an integral
part of the display. Only one side of a double-faced or V-type sign structure
shall be used in computing total surface area.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign or advertising display constructed of cloth, canvas,
fabric, plywood or other light material and designed or intended to be
displayed for a short period of time.
   SIGN, WALL. A sign attached to or erected against the wall of a building or
structure with the exposed face of the sign in a plane approximately parallel
to the face of the wall, and which does not project more than 12 inches from
the building or structure.
   SITE. Any lot or parcel of land or combination of contiguous lots of parcels
of land.
   SITE PLAN. The development plan, drawn to scale, for one or more lots on
which is shown the existing and proposed conditions of the lot.
   SKETCH PLAN. An informal layout of the proposed subdivision including
preliminary topographic data, location of existing structures, requested zoning
changes, relationship to existing community facilities and relationship to
existing surrounding land use.
   SPECIALTY FOOD STORE. A retail store specializing in a specific type of
class of foods such as an appetizer store, bakery, butcher, delicatessen, fish,
gourmet and similar foods.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STREETS and ALLEYS.
      (1)   STREET. A public right-of-way accepted or a private right-of-way
approved pursuant to the requirements of the city, by public authority which
provides a legal primary means of public access to abutting property. The term
STREET shall include a highway, thoroughfare, arterial, parkway, collector,
avenue, drive, circle, road, boulevard or any other similar term describing an
entity complying with the preceding requirements.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries traffic from minor streets
to arterials.
      (3)   CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate turn- around for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic
movement.
      (4)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A minor street which is parallel and
adjacent to an arterial street and which provides access to abutting properties
and protection from through traffic.
      (5)   MINOR STREET. A street of limited continuity which is used
primarily for access to abutting properties.
      (6)   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which is used primarily for secondary
vehicular service access to the back or the side of properties abutting on a
street.
      (7)   PRIVATE STREET. A street serving as vehicular access to two or more
parcels of land which is not dedicated to the public but is owned by one or
more private parties.
      (8)   ARTERIAL STREET. A street or highway with access restrictions
designed to carry large volumes of traffic between various sectors of the city
or county and beyond.
   STREET FRONTAGE. That portion of a parcel of land abutting one or more
public streets. An interior lot has one street frontage and a corner lot has
two street frontages.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the lines delineating the right-
of-way of a street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more
or less permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having a
permanent location on the ground. When a structure is divided into separate
parts by an unpierced wall, each part shall be deemed a separate structure.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person commencing proceedings under this chapter to effect a
subdivision of land hereunder for himself, herself or for another.
   SUBDIVISION. The separation of an area, parcel, or tract of land under
single ownership into two or more parcels, tracts, lots, or long-term leasehold
interests where the creation of the leasehold interest necessitates the
creation of streets, roads, or alleys, for residential, commercial, industrial
or other use or any combination thereof, except those separations
      (1)   Where all the resulting parcels, tracts, lots, or interests will be
20 acres or larger in size and 500 feet in width for residential uses and five
acres or larger in size for commercial and industrial uses;
      (2)   Creating cemetery lots;
      (3)   Resulting from court orders, or the adjustment of a lot line by the
relocation of a common boundary.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. A subdivision involving the creation of four or more
parcels, tracts or lots.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A subdivision involving the creation of not more than
three parcels, tracts or lots and the dedication of public utility and street
easements is not involved.
   TANGENT. A straight line; also a straight line projected from the end of a
curve, which is perpendicular to a line in the curve drawn from the radius
point to the end of the curve.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A structure without any foundation or footings and
which shall be removed when the designated time period, activity or use for
which temporary structure was erected has ceased.
   TEMPORARY USE. A use established for a fixed period of time with the intent
to discontinue use upon the expiration of the time period.
   TOPSOIL. That portion of the overburden which lies closest to the surface of
the earth and which supports the growth of vegetation.
   TOWER. Any ground or roof mounted pole, spire, structure or combination
thereof taller than 25 feet, including supporting lines, cables, wires, braces
and masts, built for the purpose of mounting an antenna, meteorological device
or similar apparatus above grade.
   TOWNHOUSE. A single-family attached residence building consisting of three
or more dwelling units having the first story at the ground level with no
separate dwelling units directly above or below and with each dwelling unit
separated from the adjoining unit by a fire resistant wall or walls with no
openings and extending from the basement to the roof.
   TOXIC MATTER OR MATERIAL. Those materials which are capable of causing
injury to living organisms by chemical means when present in relatively small
amounts.
   TRAILER, TEMPORARY. A trailer or mobile home used for no more than six
months as an office for the display or sale of real estate, or major durable
goods or as a temporary form of residential dwelling on lot on which a house is
being constructed. Temporary trailers may be used in any district only
following the receipt of a conditional use permit.
   TRAILER, TRAVEL. A vehicle or movable structure which is designed, intended
or used for temporary human habitation during recreational or vacation
activities. The term includes, without limitation, recreational vehicles,
campers, camper trailers and tents, and house travel and tent trailers, but
does not include mobile homes.
   TRAVEL TRAILER COURT. A park, court, campsite or lot, tract, or parcel of
land maintained or intended for the purpose of providing temporary location or
accommodation for travel trailers, provided that parcels or lots used for the
inspection and sale of trailers are not trailer courts.
   TRUCK TERMINAL. Any use, area or building where cargo, trucks, truck parts,
loading equipment and the like, is stored and/or where trucks load and unload
on a regular basis.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which land, buildings, or structures are
designed, arranged or intended, or for which land, buildings or structures are
occupied or maintained.
   USE, PERMITTED. See PERMITTED USE.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The primary or predominant use of any lot.
   VARIANCE. A modification or variation of the provisions of this chapter as
applied to a specific piece of property, except that modification on the
allowable uses within a district shall not be considered a variance.
   WAREHOUSING. Warehousing is the commercial storage of merchandise and
personal property.
   WETLAND. Land which is annually subject to periodic or continuing inundation
by water and commonly referred to as a bog, swamp or marsh.
   WHOLESALE TRADE. Establishments or places of business primarily engaged in
selling merchandise to retailers; to industrial, commercial, institutional, or
professional business users, or to other wholesalers; or acting as agents or
brokers and buying merchandise for, or selling merchandise to, individuals or
companies.
   YARD. Any open space that lies between the principal or accessory building
or buildings and the nearest lot line. Such yard is unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground upward except as may be specifically provided in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between any
building and the front lot line, and measured perpendicular to the building
from the closest point of the building to the front lot line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
principal building and the rear lot line, and measured perpendicular to the
building from the closest point of the building to the rear lot line.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard between
the principal building and the side lot line, measured perpendicular to the
building from the closest point of the building to the side lot line.
   ZERO LOT LINE. A property line forming a common boundary of two dwelling
units not required to provide building setbacks along the boundary.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The officer charged with the administration
enforcement of this chapter.
   ZONING AMENDMENT. A change authorized by the city, either in the allowed use
within a district, or in the boundaries of a district.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area or areas within the limits of the city for which
the regulations and requirements governing use are uniform.
   ZONING MAP. The map or maps incorporated into this chapter as a part
thereof, designating the zoning districts.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2018-287, passed 5-10-2018)
§ 153.004 APPLICATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter are
either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed
by any other law, ordinance, statute, resolution or regulation of any kind, the
regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or
requirements shall prevail.
   (C)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, the use of all land
and every building or portion of a building erected, altered in respect to
height and area, added to, or relocated, and every use within a building or use
accessory thereto, in the city, shall be in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter. Any existing building or structure and any existing use or
properties not in conformity with the regulations herein prescribed, shall be
regarded as nonconforming, but may be continued, extended or changed, subject
to the special regulations herein provided with respect to nonconforming
properties or uses.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.005 PRIVATE AGREEMENTS.
   This chapter does not abrogate any easement, covenant or any other private
agreement, which is not legally enforceable, provided that where the
regulations of this chapter are more restrictive (or impose higher standards or
requirements) than the easements, covenants or other private agreements, the
requirements of this chapter shall govern.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.006 SEPARABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention that the provisions of this
chapter are separable in accordance with the following:
   (A)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provisions of
this chapter to be invalid, the judgment shall not affect any other provisions
of this chapter not specifically included in the statement.
   (B)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to be a particular property,
building or structure, the judgment shall not affect other property, buildings
or structures.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.007 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, USES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   ACCESSORY USE or STRUCTURE. A use or structure subordinate to and
serving the principal use or structure on the same lot and used for purposes
customarily incidental to those of the main use.
      (2)   ACCESSORY GARAGE. A larger typically detached building constructed
for the purpose of storing vehicles or similar or related equipment. ACCESSORY
GARAGES and structures greater than 120 square feet require a building permit.
      (3)   STORAGE or TOOL SHED.  A one-story accessory building that is less
than 120 square feet and used primarily for storage. A shed 120 square feet or
less does not require a building permit unless they are permanently affixed to
the ground, however a zoning compliance permit must be obtained. The
requirements of this section do not apply to domesticated animal enclosures
(doghouses) or children's playhouses, provided such structures are less than 25
square feet and five feet in height. However, domesticated animal enclosures or
children's playhouses shall not be placed in the required front yards, shall
not be placed closer than ten feet to any property line and shall not be
permitted in existing utility and drainage easements
      (4)   PERMANENT HARD SURFACE FLOOR. Shall mean only non-aggregate
impervious concrete or asphalt so as to prevent chemicals or other liquids from
leaching into the ground.
   (B)   Requirements and regulations.  Accessory uses and structures shall
comply with the following standards and all other applicable regulations of
this chapter.
      (1)   No accessory building, use or structure shall be constructed or
established on any lot prior to the time of construction of the principal use
to which it is accessory.
      (2)   The accessory use or structure shall be incidental to and
customarily associated with the principal use or structure.
      (3)   The accessory use or structure shall be subordinate in area,
extent, size and purpose to the principal use or structure served.
      (4)   The accessory use or structure shall contribute to the comfort,
convenience, or necessity of the occupants of the principal use or structure
served. In no case shall an accessory structure be utilized as an independent
residence, either permanently or temporarily.
      (5)   The accessory use or structure shall be located on the same zoning
lot as the principal use or structure, except for accessory off-street parking
and loading facilities, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   The accessory use or structure shall not be injurious to the use
and enjoyment of surrounding properties.
      (7)   The accessory use or structure shall not be permitted on any
utility or drainage easement.
      (8)   One storage or tool shed as defined in this section may be placed
on any lot in addition to the permitted number of accessory buildings.
      (9)   An accessory use or structure shall be considered as an integral
part of the principal building if it is located six feet or less from the
principal building and shall comply in all respects with the requirements of
this chapter applicable to the main building.
      (10)   The exterior design and color shall be the same or compatible with
that of the principal building or be of earthen tone and in character with the
surrounding built environment. Compatible means that the exterior appearance of
the accessory building is not at variance with the principal building from an
aesthetic and architectural standpoint as to cause a difference to a degree to
cause incongruity or a nuisance.
      (11)   In computing the depth of a rear yard for any building where the
rear line of the lot adjoins an alley, half the width of such alley may be
included as rear yard depth, provided that the rear yard depth actually on the
lot shall not be reduced to less than ten feet by the application of this
exception.
      (12)   Unless mounted on a trailer or equipped with wheels, ice fishing
houses or other such structures used or designed to be used as temporary
shelters shall be considered accessory buildings and shall be subject to the
setback, square footage and other regulations of this chapter.
      (13)   An accessory use or structure shall have a permanent hard surfaced
floor.
   (C)   Residential districts.  Standards for accessory buildings and
structures in residential districts are as follows:
      (1)   Accessory buildings and structures size in residential districts
shall be as follows:
Parcel Size Total Square Footage Max. Individual Building Size
Parcel Size  Total Square Footage Max. Individual Building Size
0 - 1/2 acre 800 square feet      800 square feet
1/2 - 1 acre 1,000 square feet    1,000 square feet
1 - 2 acres  1,250 square feet    1,250 square feet
2 - 3 acres  1,500 square feet    1,250 square feet
3 - 4 acres  1,750 square feet    1,250 square feet
4 - 5 acres  2,000 square feet    1,250 square feet
5 - 6 acres  2,250 square feet    1,500 square feet
6 - 7 acres  2,500 square feet    2,500 square feet
7 - 8 acres  2,750 square feet    2,500 square feet
8 - 9 acres  3,000 square feet    2,500 square feet
9 - 10 acres 3,250 square feet    2,500 square feet
 
      (2)   The accessory building or structure shall not exceed the height of
the principal building structure or the average grade to peak height of 20
feet, whichever is less.
      (3)   Storage or tool sheds may encroach on side or rear yard setbacks,
except in the case of a side yard of a corner lot abutting a public street.
When encroachment into required side or rear yard setbacks is allowed, such
storage or tool sheds shall be setback at least five from all adjoining lots.
Storage or tool sheds shall not be located within any utility or drainage
easement.
      (4)   Accessory structures or accessory garages shall conform to all
applicable setback and lot coverage requirements for principal buildings.
   (D)   Commercial or industrial districts.  Standards for accessory buildings
and structures in commercial and industrial districts are as follows:
      (1)   No accessory building or structure shall exceed the height of the
principal building accept by conditional use permit.
      (2)   Accessory buildings may be located any place to the rear of the
principal building subject to the building code and the fire zone regulations,
except where prohibited by other sections of this chapter.
      (3)   Accessory buildings shall conform to all applicable setback and lot
coverage requirements for principal buildings.
   (E)   Nonconforming accessory uses and structures.
      (1)   No use or structure that is accessory to a principle nonconforming
use or structure shall continue after such principal use or structure shall
have been terminated, unless it shall thereafter conform to all regulations of
the zoning district in which it is located.
      (2)   The burden of establishing that any non-conformity is lawfully
existing under the provisions of this section shall, in all cases, be upon the
owner of the nonconforming property and not upon the city.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2006-201, passed 10-12-2006; Am. Ord. 2007-
215, passed 10-29-2007)
§ 153.008 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Nonconforming buildings and uses. Except as hereinafter provided, a
nonconforming use or nonconforming structure, building and/or land shall not be
extended or expanded.
   (B)   Nonconforming signs. Signs lawfully existing at the time of the
adoption of this chapter may be continued although the use, size or location
does not conform with the provisions of this chapter. However, it shall be
deemed a nonconforming use. If the use of a nonconforming advertising sign
structure is discontinued or its normal operation and maintenance is stopped
for a period of 12 months, the structure shall be deemed an illegal use or
structure and shall be removed by the owner of the property at the request of
the City Council.
   (C)   Nonconforming lots of record. In any district in which single-family
dwellings are permitted, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other
provisions of this chapter, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory
buildings may be erected on any single lot of record on the effective date of
this chapter provided that it fronts on a public right-of-way and provided,
further, that the width and area measurements are at least 60% of the minimum
requirements of this chapter. Yard dimensions and other requirements for the
lot shall conform to regulations for the district unless a variance is granted.
If two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with
contiguous street frontage in single ownership are of record on the effective
date of this chapter, and if all or part of the lots do not meet with width and
area requirements of this chapter for lots in the district, the contiguous lots
shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purpose of this chapter
and no portion of the parcel shall be used or occupied which does not meet lot
width and area requirements of this chapter, nor shall the parcel be so divided
that any remaining lot does not comply with the requirements.
   (D)   Phasing out of nonconforming uses. Any nonconformity, including the
lawful use or occupation of land or premises existing at the time of the
adoption of an additional control under this chapter, may be continued,
including through repair, replacement, maintenance, or improvement, but not
including expansion, unless:
      (1)   The nonconformity or occupancy is discontinued for a period of more
than one year. After a conforming use replaces a nonconforming use, all future
uses must be conforming; or
      (2)   Any nonconforming use is destroyed by wind, fire, flood, explosion,
earthquake, war, riot, or other similar peril to the extent of greater than 50%
of its market value at the time of destruction, as determined by the county
assessor, and no building permit has been applied for within 180 days of when
the property is damaged. In making this determination, the county assessor,
shall consider the market value of the entire nonconforming use. This
determination of value shall be reviewed and approved by the City Council. In
the event that a building permit is applied for within 180 days of the date of
destruction, the city may impose reasonable conditions upon the building permit
in order to mitigate any newly created impact on adjacent property.
   Expansion shall be defined as any structural alteration, change or addition
that is made outside of the original building or any change in the building’s
occupancy capacity or to the parking demand except those required or allowed by
law or ordinance.
   (E)   Nonconforming junkyards. Within one year after the effective date of
this chapter, all junkyards shall be completely enclosed within a building,
fence, screen planting, or other device of such height as to screen completely
the operations of the junkyard. Plans of the building or device shall be
approved by the Planning Commission and the City Council before it is erected
or put into place.
   (F)   Alterations.
      (1)   The lawful use of a building existing on the effective date of this
chapter may be continued, although the use does not conform with the provisions
hereof. If no structural alterations are made, a nonconforming use, all or
partially conducted in a building or buildings, may be changed to another
conforming use only upon determination that the new proposed use will be no
more detrimental to its neighborhood and surroundings that is the use it is to
replace. In determining relative, "detriment," the city shall take into
consideration, among other things: traffic generated; nuisance characteristics,
such as emission of noise, dust and smoke; fire hazards; and hours and manner
of operation. The foregoing provisions shall also apply to nonconforming uses
in districts hereafter changed. Whenever a nonconforming use of a building has
been changed to a more restricted use or to a conforming use, the use shall not
thereafter be changed into a less restricted use.
      (2)   Residential alterations. Alterations may be made to a nonconforming
residential building when they will improve the livability of the units,
provided, however, that they do not increase the number of dwelling units in
the building or potential number of occupants.
   (G)   Normal maintenance. Maintenance of a building or other structure
containing or used by a nonconforming use will be permitted when it includes
necessary, nonstructural repairs and incidental alterations which do not extend
or intensify the nonconforming building or use. Nothing in this chapter shall
prevent correcting unsafe conditions of the structure upon being advised to do
so by the Building Inspector and Zoning Administrator.
   (H)   Issued permits. Nothing contained herein shall require any change in
plans, construction or designated use of a building or structure for which a
building permit has been issued prior to the effective date of revision of
section, provided, however, that the entire building shall be completed
according to the plans as filed within 12 months of the date of issuance of the
permit.
   (I)   Nonconformities created by amendment. When a nonconformity in a
structure or use of land or a structure is created by an amendment to this
chapter, the rights granted by this section to the continuance of
nonconformities apply to the nonconformities existing on the date of the
amendment.
   (J)   Prohibited uses. Whenever in any zoning district a use is neither
permitted nor specified as a use allowed through the issuance of a conditional
use permit or interim use permit, the use shall be considered prohibited. In
such case the City Council, the Planning Commission, or a property owner may
request a study by the city to determine if the use is acceptable and if so
what zoning district would be most appropriate and to determine the types of
conditions and standards to apply to the use if it were allowed as a use. The
Lonsdale Planning Commission, upon receipt of the staff study may, if
appropriate, initiate an amendment to the city's zoning code to provide for the
particular use under consideration or may find that the use is not compatible
for development in the city.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2007-208, passed 1-11-2007)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.020 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Clerk/Administrator shall serve as the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator is authorized and directed to enforce all the provisions of this
chapter and shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Review and issue all applications pertaining to use of land,
buildings, or structures, and forward requests for conditional use permits,
variances, or rezoning to the Planning Commission, or approve the applications
when the applications conform with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Keep a record of all nonconforming uses.
   (C)   Periodically inspect buildings, structures and uses of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this chapter. In regard to performance
standards, the Zoning Administrator may require the services of a testing
laboratory to determine compliance. The cost of employing the testing
laboratory shall be paid for by the owner if a violation of this chapter is
established.
   (D)   Notify, in writing, any person responsible for violating a provision
of this chapter, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action
necessary to correct it.
   (E)   Order discontinuances of illegal uses of land, buildings or
structures, or take any action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance
with or to prevent violation of its provision.
   (F)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including all
maps, amendments, conditional uses and variances.
   (G)   Maintain a current file of all applications and building permits; all
certificates of occupancy; and all copies of notices of violation,
discontinuances, or removal for such time as necessary to ensure continued
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and, on request, provide
information to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in any
specific property.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2006-188, passed 1-26-2006)
§ 153.021 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established for the city, a Planning and Zoning
Commission, which may be known as the “Planning Commission.”
   (B)   Membership shall consist of five members recommended by the Mayor and
approved by the City Council. Members shall be residents of the city and serve
without compensation. In addition to this membership, two shall be appointed as
ex officio, one to be appointed from the administrative membership of the city
government and one from the membership of the City Council to serve as liaison
with the Planning Commission. For the transaction of business at any meeting,
three voting members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. Except as
otherwise specifically provided, a majority of voting members present shall be
required for the adoption of any resolution.
   (C)   At the first meeting of each calendar year, voting members of the
Commission shall select a chair, a vice-chair, and a secretary, each to serve
throughout the year and until a successor is chosen. Duties of chair include
presiding at meetings of the Commission, calling special meetings, appointing
standing and other committees, arranging meetings with technical advisors and
property owners or others who have personal interest in a proposed
recommendation, communicating with city officials, reporting pertinent
findings, and giving leadership to the Commission. The vice-chair shall perform
any or all duties described in the absence of the chair or at the request of
the chair. The secretary shall keep a record of the proceedings of every
meeting of the Commission, including copies of all of the correspondence and
other documents pertaining to the proceedings and minutes of all such meetings.
Also, the secretary shall send a record of every meeting of the Commission to
Commission members, the City Council, and the City Administrator and shall
submit the minutes at the next following meeting of the Commission for review
and final approval. The secretary shall handle the correspondence of the
Commission and shall perform other tasks as voted by the Commission, or as
directed by its chair.
   (D)   Terms of office for members other than ex officio's shall be for three
years, except that three members shall initially serve a term of two years,
and, thereafter, all members shall serve the prescribed three-year term. Terms
shall expire on the last day of the year. Ex officio members shall be appointed
for annual terms, provided that membership on the Commission shall terminate
with the office, from which ex officio membership is derived and serve during
the pleasure of the City Council or as may otherwise be appropriate.
   (E)   The Commission shall hold one regular meeting every month or as
determined by the Commission. Regular meetings may be cancelled by the
chairperson or City Administrator if there is no business before the
Commission.
   (F)   If a commissioner has a financial interest, as determined by state
law, in a decision before the Commission, that commissioner must abstain from
both the discussion and the vote. For reference see M.S. § 471.87, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (G)   Any member of the Commission may be removed from office for just cause
and on written charges by a vote of the City Council, but the member shall be
entitled to a public hearing before the vote is taken. In addition, any member
may be removed by the chairperson or City Administrator for nonattendance at
Planning Commission meetings without action by the City Council. Any
Commissioner who is absent from three regular called meetings of the Commission
shall be deemed to have resigned unless the absentee provides a explanation to
the chairperson.
   (H)   It shall be the duty of the Chairman of the Commission to notify the
City Council promptly of any vacancies occurring in membership.If there is a
vacancy, it shall be filled by a person recommended by the Mayor and approved
by the City Council. Vacancies shall be filled within 30 days, or as soon as
possible thereafter, for the remaining unexpired term of the original
appointment.
   (I)   The Planning Commission is an advisory board to the City Council. The
Planning Commission shall review, hold public hearings, and make
recommendations to the City Council on all applications for zoning amendments,
conditional use permits, plat approvals, and variances using the criteria in §§
153.023(A),
153.024(B), and
153.025(B). The Planning Commission shall also prepare and recommend a
comprehensive plan for the development of the city, study and make
recommendations to the City Council regarding the means to carry out and
maintain the comprehensive plan and regulations thereto. The Commission shall
prepare and recommend to the proper officials of the municipality, needed
capital improvements consistent with the comprehensive plan for the city. The
Commission shall conduct hearings, study, and recommend to the City Council a
zoning code and amendments thereto as may, from time to time, be proposed.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2006-188, passed 1-26-2006; Am. Ord. 2022-309,
passed 3-31- 2022)
§ 153.022 BOARD OF APPEALS AND ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall act as the Board of Appeals and Adjustments.
   (B)   The Board of Appeals and Adjustments shall have the power and duty of
hearing and deciding appeals where it is alleged that there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
officer in the enforcement of this chapter and to also hear and decide on
requests for variances. The conditions for issuing a variance are indicated in
§
153.025(B).
   (C)   The Board shall make no decision on an appeal or variance until the
Planning Commission has had reasonable opportunity, not to exceed 60 days, to
review and report to the Board upon the appeal or variance petition.
   (D)   The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the
order, requirement, decision, or determination as, in its opinion, ought to be
made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the
appeal was taken, and may issue or direct the issuance of a permit. The reasons
for the Board decision shall be stated and recorded. The decision of the Board
shall not be final, and any person having an interest affected by such decision
shall have the right to appeal to the Rice County District Court regarding
questions of law and fact. A vote of a majority of the Board of Appeals and
adjustments shall be necessary to reverse any decision of an administrative
official of the city or of the City Council, or to decide in favor of the
applicant.
   (E)   The function of the City Council acting as the City Council shall be
separate from and exclusive of the functions of the Commission acting as Zoning
Board of Adjustments and Appeals. If the Council has been meeting as the City
Council, it shall adjourn or recess, as appropriate, and reconvene in order to
meet as the Zoning Board of Appeals and Adjustments. If the City Council has
been meeting as the Zoning Board of Appeals and Adjustments, it shall adjourn
or recess, as appropriate, and reconvene in order to meet as the City Council.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2006-188, passed 1-26-2006)
§ 153.023 ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Criteria for granting zoning amendments.
      (1)   The City Council may adopt amendments to the zoning code and zoning
map relative to land uses within a particular district or to the location of
the district line. The amendments shall not be issued indiscriminately, but
shall only be used as a means to reflect changes in the goals and policies of
the city as reflected in the comprehensive plan or changes in conditions in the
city.
      (2)   Zoning amendments shall be made by a simple majority of the
Council, except that the adoption or amendment of any portion of the zoning
code which changes all or part of the existing classification of a zoning
district from residential to either commercial or industrial requires a two-
thirds majority vote of all members of the City Council.
   (B)   Kinds of amendments.
      (1)   A change in the districts boundary;
      (2)   A change in a districts regulations;
      (3)   A change in any other provision of this chapter.
   (C)   Initiation of proceedings.  Proceedings for amending this chapter
shall be initiated by at least one of the following three methods:
      (1)   By petition of an owner or owners of property which is proposed to
be rezoned, or for which district regulation changes are proposed;
      (2)   By recommendation of the Planning Commission;
      (3)   By action of the City Council.
   (D)   Required exhibits for rezoning or district regulation changes.
      (1)   Abstracters property certificate showing property owners names and
addresses within 350 feet of the outer boundaries of the property in question.
If applicant is not the property owner, an enforceable option shall be
submitted.
      (2)   A boundary line survey.
      (3)   A general development plan showing the potential development of the
property, indicating proposed streets, buildings, drainage and landscaping. The
plans shall contain sufficient information for the community to determine
whether the proposed development is in keeping with the intent and purpose of
this chapter and the comprehensive plan. Information to include is a site plan
drawn to scale parcel and building dimensions, location of all buildings and
their size, including square footage, curb cuts, driveways, access roads,
parking spaces, off-street loading areas and sidewalks, landscaping and
screening plan, including species and size of trees and shrubs proposed, if
required by Planning Commission, finished graded and drainage plan, type of
business or activity and proposed number of employees, proposed floor plan and
elevations of any building use indicated, sanitary sewer and water plan with
estimated daily flow rates, and map showing all principal land use within 300
feet of the parcel for which application is being made, if required by Planning
Commission.
   (E)   Procedure.  The procedure for a property owner to initiate an
amendment including rezoning or district regulation change is:
      (1)   The property owner or his or her agent shall meet with the Zoning
Administrator to explain his or her proposal, obtain procedures, and an
application form.
      (2)   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with the required exhibits and fee with the Zoning Administrator. All
applications for rezoning shall be received in the office of the Zoning
Administrator no later than 30 days prior to a Planning Commission meeting.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall review submitted materials within
five working days for completeness and shall make a determination whether any
additional materials need to be supplied by the applicant. If additional
materials need to be supplied regarding the application, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing no less than ten days
following the initial application submittal.
      (4)   For some applications, due to the scale of the changes requested,
potential for conflict or for health or safety considerations, the Zoning
Administrator may determine that an additional 60-day time period is needed in
which to conduct staff review of the proposed changes. The applicant will be
notified in writing of the time extension. The reasons for the extension will
be specified in the letter.
      (5)   Once an applicant's form and exhibits are determined to be
complete, the Zoning Administrator shall transmit the application and the
required exhibits to the Planning Commission and shall notify by mail all
property owners within 350 feet of the outer boundaries of the property in
question.
      (6)   The Zoning Administrator shall set the date for the public hearing
and shall have notices of the hearing published in the legal newspaper at least
once, not less than ten days and not more than 30 days prior to the hearing.
The City Council may waive the mailed notice requirements for a citywide
amendment to the zoning code initiated by the Planning Commission or City
Council.
      (7)   The Planning Commission shall hold the public hearing and then
shall recommend one of the three actions: approval, denial or conditional
approval.
      (8)   The Planning Commission shall transmit its recommendation to the
City Council for its official action within 15 days after holding the public
hearing.
      (9)   The City Council shall act upon the application within 15 days
after receiving the recommendation from the Planning Commission.
      (10)   No re-application of a property owner for an amendment to the text
of the zoning code or zoning map shall be considered by the Planning Commission
within a one-year period following a denial of the request, except that the
Planning Commission may permit a new application, if, in the opinion of the
Planning Commission, new evidence or a change of circumstances warrant it.
      (11)   The applicant or his or her representative shall appear at the
public hearing in order to answer questions concerning the proposed amendment.
   (F)   Procedure.  The procedure for the Planning Commission to initiate an
amendment including rezoning or district regulation change is:
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall pass a motion recommending an
amendment.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall submit the proposed amendment to the
City Council for review and comment.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall set the date for the public hearing
and shall have notices of the hearing published in the legal newspaper at least
once, not less than ten days and not more than 30 days prior to the hearing.
The City Council may waive the mailed notice requirements for a citywide
amendment to the zoning code initiated by the Planning Commission or City
Council.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall hold the public hearing and then
shall recommend one of the three actions: approval, denial or conditional
approval.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall transmit its recommendation to the
City Council for its official action within 15 days after holding the public
hearing.
      (6)   The City Council shall act upon the application within 15 days
after receiving the recommendation from the Planning Commission.
   (G)   Procedure. The procedure for City Council to initiate an amendment
including rezoning or district regulation change is:
      (1)   The City Council shall pass a resolution of intent to amend the
zoning code.
      (2)   The City Council shall submit the proposed amendment to the
Planning Commission for review and comment.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall set the date for the public hearing
and shall have notices of the hearing published in the legal newspaper at least
once, not less than ten days and not more than 30 days prior to the hearing.
The City Council may waive the mailed notice requirements for a citywide
amendment to the zoning code initiated by the Planning Commission or City
Council.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall hold the public hearing and then
shall recommend one of the three actions: approval, denial or conditional
approval.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall transmit its recommendation to the
City Council for its official action within 15 days after holding the public
hearing.
      (6)   The City Council shall act upon the application within 15 days
after receiving the recommendation from the Planning Commission.
   (H)   Public Hearing and notices. No amendment shall be adopted until a
public hearing has been held thereon by the Planning Commission. A notice of
the time, place, and purpose of the hearing shall be published in the official
newspaper of the city at least ten days prior to the day of the hearing. When
an amendment involves changes in district boundaries affecting an area of five
acres or less, a similar notice shall be mailed at least ten days before the
day of the hearing to each owner of the affected property and property situated
wholly or partly within 350 feet of the property to which the amendment
relates. For the purpose of giving mailed notice, the person responsible for
mailing notice may use any appropriate records to determine the names and
addresses of owners. A copy of the notice and list of the owners and addresses
to which the notice was sent to shall be attested to by the responsible person
and shall be made a part of the records of the proceedings. The failure to give
mailed notice to individual property owners or defects in the notice shall not
invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona fide attempt to comply with this
section has been made.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2006-188, passed 1-26-2006)
§ 153.024 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Record maintenance.  The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record
of all conditional use permits issued, including information on the use,
location, and condition made by the City Council; time limits review dates and
other information as may be appropriate. The Zoning Administrator shall file a
copy of every conditional use permit with the County Recorder.
   (B)   Criteria for granting conditional use permits.  In granting a
conditional use permit, the City Council shall consider the advice and
recommendations of the Planning Commission and how the proposed use fits within
the comprehensive plan of the city and its potential impact upon the health,
safety and general welfare of occupants of surrounding lands. Among other
things, the Council shall consider the following findings where applicable:
      (1)   The use will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health,
safety, comfort, convenience or general welfare of the neighborhood or the
city;
      (2)   The use will be harmonious with the general and applicable specific
objectives of the comprehensive plan of the city and this chapter;
      (3)   The use will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so
as to be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and will not change the essential character
of that area;
      (4)   The use will not be hazardous or future neighboring uses;
      (5)   The use will be served adequately by essential public facilities
and services, including streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal, water and sewer systems and schools; or will be
served adequately by the facilities and services provided by the persons or
agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use;
      (6)   The use will not create excessive additional requirements at public
cost for public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the
economic welfare of the community;
      (7)   The use will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials,
equipment and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons,
property or the general welfare because of excessive production of traffic,
noise, smoke, fumes, glare or odors;
      (8)   The use will have vehicular approaches to the property, which are
so designed as not to create traffic congestion or an interference with traffic
on surrounding public thoroughfares;
      (9)   The use will not result in the destruction, loss, or damage of a
natural, scenic or historic feature of major importance; and
      (10)   The use will conform to specific standards of this chapter
applicable to the particular use.
   (C)   Additional conditions. In permitting a new conditional use or the
alteration of an existing conditional use, the City Council may impose, in
addition to the standards and requirements expressly specified by this chapter,
additional conditions which the City Council considers necessary to protect the
best interest of the surrounding area or community as a whole. These conditions
may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Increasing the required lot size or yard dimension;
      (2)   Limiting the height, size or location of buildings;
      (3)   Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points;
      (4)   Increasing the street width;
      (5)   Increasing the number of required off-street parking spaces;
      (6)   Limiting the number, size, location or light of signs;
      (7)   Requiring additional fencing, screening, landscaping or other
facilities to protect adjacent or nearby property; and
      (8)   Designing sites for open space.
   (D)   Required exhibits for a conditional use permit. The following exhibits
shall be required:
      (1)   Abstract or certificate showing property owners' names and
addresses within 350 feet of the outer boundaries of the property in question;
if applicant is not the property owner, an enforceable option shall be
submitted;
      (2)   A boundary line survey;
      (3)   A general development plan showing the potential development of the
property, including proposed streets, buildings, landscaping and drainage. The
plans shall contain sufficient information for the community to determine
whether the proposed development is in keeping with the intent and purpose of
this chapter and the comprehensive plan. Information to include is a site plan
drawn to scale parcel and building dimensions, location of all buildings and
their size, including square footage, curb cuts, driveways, access roads,
parking spaces, off-street loading areas and sidewalks, landscaping and
screening plan, including species and size of trees and shrubs proposed, if
required by Planning Commission, finished graded and drainage plan, type of
business or activity and proposed number of employees, proposed floor plan and
elevations of any building use indicated, sanitary sewer and water plan with
estimated daily flow rates, and map showing all principal land use within 300
feet of the parcel for which application is being made, if required by Planning
Commission.
   (E)   Procedure.  The procedure for applying for a conditional use permit is
as follows:
      (1)   The property owner or his or her agent shall meet with the Zoning
Administrator to explain his or her proposal, learn the procedures, and obtain
an application form.
      (2)   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with the required exhibits with the Zoning Administrator. All applications for
a conditional use permit must be received in the office of the Zoning
Administrator not later than 30 days prior to the Planning Commission meeting.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall review submitted materials within
five working days for completeness and shall make a determination whether any
additional materials need to be supplied by the applicant. If additional
materials need to be supplied regarding the application, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing no less than ten days
following the initial application submittal.
      (4)   For some applications, due to the scale of the changes requested,
potential for conflict, or the health or safety considerations, the Zoning
Administrator may determine that an additional 60-day time period is needed in
which to conduct staff review of the proposed changes. The applicant will be
notified in writing of the time extension. The reasons for the extension will
be specified in the letter.
      (5)   Once an applicant's form and exhibits are determined to be
complete, the Zoning Administrator shall transmit the application to the
Planning Commission and shall notify by registered mail all property owners
within 350 feet of the outer boundaries of the property in question.
      (6)   The Zoning Administrator shall set the date for a public hearing
and shall have notice of the hearing published at least once in the legal
newspaper, not less than ten days and not more than 30 days prior to the
hearing.
      (7)   The Planning Commission shall hold the public hearing and shall
then study the application to determine possible adverse effects of the
proposed conditional use and to determine what additional requirements may be
necessary to reduce the adverse effects and recommend one of the three actions:
approval, denial or conditional approval.
      (8)   The Planning Commission shall transmit, within 15 days, its
recommendation to the City Council for its official action.
      (9)   The City Council shall take appropriate action on the request for
conditional use permit within 15 days of receiving the recommendations by the
Planning Commission. If it grants a conditional use permit, the City Council
may impose conditions, including time limits it considers necessary to protect
the public health, safety and general welfare, and the conditions may include a
time limit for the use to exist or operate.
      (10)   The applicant or his or her representative shall appear at the
public hearing in order to answer questions concerning the proposed amendment.
      (11)   No re-application of a property owner for a conditional use permit
shall be considered by the Planning Commission within a one-year period
following a denial of the request, except that the Planning Commission may
permit a new application, if, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, new
evidence or a change of circumstances warrant it.
   (F)   Revocation of conditional use permits.
      (1)   Where a conditional use permit has been issued pursuant to
provisions of this chapter, the permit shall become null and void without
further action by the Planning Commission or City Council unless work thereon
commences within one year of the date of granting the conditional use. A
conditional use permit shall be deemed to authorize only one particular use and
shall expire if that use shall cease for more than six consecutive months.
      (2)   In the event that the applicant violates any of the conditions set
forth in this permit, the City Council shall have the authority to revoke the
conditional use permit.
   (G)   Other conditions.
      (1)   An amended conditional use permit application may be administered
in a manner similar to that required for a new conditional use permit. Amended
conditional use permits shall include reapplications for permits that have been
denied or permits that have expired, requests for changes in conditions, and as
otherwise described in this chapter.
      (2)   A periodic review of the use may be attached as a condition of
approval of a conditional use permit. Unless other stipulated, the term shall
be the life of the use.
      (3)   If the city enacts or amends official land use controls in such a
way as to render a conditional use nonconforming with the official controls,
the subject to section nonconforming uses, regardless of the permit which was
previously issued.
      (4)   If a use that is subject to an existing conditional use permit and
is still in conformance with the provisions of this chapter is destroyed,
damaged, or otherwise altered, it may be rebuilt to the same scale, intensity,
and height as existed prior to the destruction without being subject to a new
CUP application. Any increase in scale, intensity, or height shall require
submittal of a new conditional use permit application.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2006-188, passed 1-26-2006)
§ 153.025 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Board of Appeals and Adjustments. The City Council shall be the Board
of Appeals and Adjustments for the city, and as provided by M.S. § 462.354,
subd. 2, shall have the powers granted under M.S. § 462.357, subd. 6, as they
may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Variances.
      (1)   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.357, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time
to time, the City Council, acting as a Board of Appeals and Adjustments, may
issue variances from the provisions of this zoning code including those
restrictions placed on nonconformities. A VARIANCE is a modification or
variation of the provisions of this zoning code as applied to a specific piece
of property.
      (2)   Variances shall only be permitted:
         (a)   When they are in harmony with the general purposes and intent of
the code; and
         (b)   When the variances are consistent with the comprehensive plan.
      (3)   Variances may be granted when the applicant for the variance
establishes that there are practical difficulties in complying with the zoning
code.
      (4)   PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES, as used in connection with the granting of
a variance, means that:
         (a)   1.   The property owner proposes to use the property in a
reasonable manner not permitted by the zoning code;
            2.   The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to
the property not created by the landowner; and
            3.   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality.
         (b)   Economic considerations alone do not constitute PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES. PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES include, but are not limited to,
inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems.
      (5)   Variances shall be granted for earth sheltered construction as
defined in M.S. § 216C.06, subd. 14, as it may be amended from time to time,
when in harmony with the code.
      (6)   The Board of Appeals and Adjustments may not permit as a variance
any use that is not allowed under the zoning code for property in the zone
where the affected person's land is located.
      (7)   The Board may permit as a variance the temporary use of a one-
family dwelling as a two- family dwelling.
      (8)   The Board may impose conditions in the granting of variances. A
condition must be directly related to and must bear a rough proportionality to
the impact created by the variance.
   (C)   Record maintenance. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record
of all variances granted, including any restrictions and conditions made by the
Board of Appeals and Adjustments and other information as may be appropriate.
The Zoning Administrator shall file a copy of every variance granted with the
County Recorder.
   (D)   Revocation. The City Council may revoke a variance if any conditions
established by the Board, as part of granting the variance request, are
violated.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2006-188, passed 1-26-2006; Am. Ord. 2012-250,
passed 3-29-2012)
§ 153.026 INTERIM USES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of an interim use permit is to allow a reasonable
use of property for uses not specifically permitted in a zoning district on a
temporary basis as deemed appropriate by the City Council upon recommendation
of the Planning and Zoning Commission and benefit the public good in the
following cases:
      (1)   To allow a use for a temporary period of time until a permanent
location is obtained or while the permanent location is under construction.
      (2)   To allow a use which is presently judged acceptable by the City
Council, but that with anticipated development or redevelopment, will not be
acceptable in the future or will be replaced in the future by a permitted or
conditional use allowed within the respective district.
      (3)   To allow a use which is reflective of long-range change in an area
and which is in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan, provided that said use
maintains harmony and compatibility with surrounding uses and is in keeping
with the architectural character and design standards of existing uses and
development.
   (B)   Criteria for granting interim uses. An interim use may be granted only
in the event that the following circumstances exist:
      (1)   The proposed use meets the standards of a conditional use permit
established in within this chapter.
      (2)   The proposed use conforms to applicable general performance
standards identified within this chapter.
      (3)   The date or event that will terminate the use can be identified
with certainty.
      (4)   The use will not impose additional unreasonable costs on the
public.
      (5)   The user agrees to any conditions that the City Council deems
appropriate for permission of the use, including in the city's discretion, a
condition that the user shall be responsible for the cost of removing the
interim use and any structures associated with the interim use upon the
expiration of the interim use permit, and that the user may be required to
provide appropriate financial security to cover such cost.
      (6)   Failure to comply with any one of the applicable criteria as
determined by the city shall be sufficient cause to deny the interim use permit
application.
   (C)   Required exhibits.
      (1)   Abstract or certificate showing property owners' names and
addresses within 350 feet of the outer boundaries of the property in question;
if applicant is not the property owner, an enforceable option shall be
submitted.
      (2)   A boundary line survey.
      (3)   A general development plan showing the potential development of the
property, including proposed streets, buildings, landscaping and drainage.
   (D)   Procedure. The procedure for applying for an interim use permit is as
follows:
      (1)   The property owner or his or her agent shall meet with the Zoning
Administrator to explain his or her proposal, learn the procedures, and obtain
an application form.
      (2)   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with the required exhibits with the Zoning Administrator. All applications for
an interim use permit must be received in the office of the Zoning
Administrator not later than 30 days prior to the Planning Commission meeting.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall review submitted materials within
five working days for completeness and shall make a determination whether any
additional materials need to be supplied by the applicant. If additional
materials need to be supplied regarding the application, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing no less than ten days
following the initial application submittal.
      (4)   For some applications, due to the scale of the changes requested,
potential for conflict, or the health or safety considerations, the Zoning
Administrator may determine that an additional 60-day time period is needed in
which to conduct staff review of the proposed changes. The applicant will be
notified in writing of the time extension. The reasons for the extension will
be specified in the letter.
      (5)   Once an applicant's form and exhibits are determined to be
complete, the Zoning Administrator shall transmit the application to the
Planning Commission and shall notify by registered mail all property owners
within 350 feet of the outer boundaries of the property in question.
      (6)   The Zoning Administrator shall set the date for a public hearing
and shall have notice of the hearing published at least once in the legal
newspaper, not less than ten days and not more than 30 days prior to the
hearing.
      (7)   The Planning Commission shall hold the public hearing and shall
then study the application to determine possible adverse effects of the
proposed interim use and to determine what additional requirements may be
necessary to reduce the adverse effects and recommend one of the three actions:
approval, denial or conditional approval.
      (8)   The Planning Commission shall transmit, within 15 days, its
recommendation to the City Council for its official action.
      (9)   The City Council shall take appropriate action on the request for
interim use permit within 15 days of receiving the recommendations by the
Planning Commission. If it grants an interim use permit, the City Council may
impose conditions, including time limits it considers necessary to protect the
public health, safety and general welfare, and the conditions may include a
time limit for the use to exist or operate.
      (10)   The applicant or his or her representative shall appear at the
public hearing in order to answer questions concerning the proposed interim use
permit.
      (11)   No re-application of a property owner for an interim use permit
shall be considered by the Planning Commission within a one-year period
following a denial of the request, except that the Planning Commission may
permit a new application, if, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, new
evidence or a change of circumstances warrant it.
   (D)   Revocation. All interim use permits shall be subject to an annual
administrative review. The purpose of such review shall be to determine that
the conditions of a permit issued hereunder are within compliance. Any interim
use permit may be revoked for failure to comply with any condition of the
permit following notice of the noncompliance and a hearing by the city council
with all interested parties be given an opportunity to be heard.
   (E)   Termination.  An interim use shall terminate upon the occurrence of
any of the following events:
      (1)   The termination date or event specified with approval of the
interim use.
      (2)   Any violation of the conditions under which the interim use was
issued.
      (3)   A change in the city's zoning regulations that make the use non-
conforming.
(Ord. 2006-188, passed 1-26-2006)
§ 153.027 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcing officer.  The Zoning Administrator is authorized to cause
the provisions of this chapter to be properly enforced through the proper legal
channels.
   (B)   Notices. Notices of public hearings regarding any violations or
termination proceedings and all nonconforming, conditional, incompatible,
accessory, special uses, or home occupation uses, shall be given by the City
Council to the interested party or parties by certified mail or in lieu
thereof, one legal published notice at least ten days before the public hearing
date, or as otherwise provided for in this chapter.
   (C)   Building permit.
      (1)   Hereafter, no person shall erect, alter, remodel, wreck, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, or move any kind of structure or building
or part thereof without first securing a building permit.
      (2)   Applications for commercial, industrial and multiple-dwelling
building permits shall be accompanied by the following exhibits:
         (a)   A complete site plan application form together with all
applicable filing requirements;
         (b)   A boundary survey of the area including the property in question
and 100 feet beyond its outer boundaries and dimensions, buildings, easements,
foliage, topography and waterways. Soil tests may be included if pertinent; and
         (c)   Building and site development plans showing buildings, location,
dimensional parking and loading arrangement, vehicular and pedestrian access
and egress, surface drainage plan, landscaping, utility plan, screening, size
and location of all signs, building and floor plans of all floors, elevations
of all sides of all buildings, and sections and outline material specifications
as appropriate.
      (3)   Applications for single- and two-family building permits shall be
accompanied by building plans and certificate of survey.
      (4)   Applications for moving any structure into or within the city shall
be accompanied by the following exhibits:
         (a)   Any such building or structure proposed to be moved shall meet
the requirements of the building code applicable to a new building or structure
and shall meet all requirements of the zoning district provided herein.
         (b)   Prior to the moving of any structure into or within the city,
the applicant shall provide the city with written acknowledgment from the
owners of at least 75% of the land parcels within a radius of 300 feet of the
boundaries of the land on which the building or structure is located. This
acknowledgment must state that the applicant has reviewed the proposed plans
with each landowner and that the landowner has the right to object or comment
about the plans to the city.
         (c)   A legal description of the premises from which the building will
be moved shall be required.
         (d)   A certificate of survey from a registered land surveyor showing
the location of the building and lot shall be required.
         (e)   The moving dates and hours must be approved by the Police Chief
and Public Works Director prior to moving the building or structure. A pre-
approved route that indicates the highways, streets, and other property over
which the building or structure is proposed to be moved shall be moved shall be
submitted to the city 15 days prior to the moving of a building or structure.
         (f)   The applicant shall provide evidence (such as a bill of sale)
that the lot(s) of which the building or structure is to be moved onto is free
from mortgages, liens, or other encumbrances, and that all taxes and other
charges against the lot(s) from which, the building is to be moved are
currently paid.
         (g)   The name of the licensed moved shall be submitted to the city
prior to the move.
         (h)   The applicant shall provide a bond or certified check from the
property owner for $10,000 payable to the city to ensure that the structure is
properly removed from the former property, located on the proposed property,
and attached to the foundation in compliance with the permit and building code.
         (i)   Written evidence of the necessary arrangements with all public
utility companies whose wires, lamps, or poles are required to be moved or
removed will be required and shall be submitted to the city prior to the move.
         (j)   The applicant will be required to provide a liability insurance
policy or certificate of such insurance, issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state of Minnesota. The policy shall insure
the applicant and the name the city as an insured in the sum of at least
$100,000, or determined by the Zoning Administrator.
         (k)   The applicant shall agree to indemnify and hold harmless the
city and its agents and employees against any and all claims, demands, losses,
damages, and expenses (including attorney fees) arising out of or resulting
from the applicant's negligent or intentional acts, or any violation of any
safety law, regulation, or code in the performance of this agreement.
      (6)   Applications for septic permits shall be required in areas without
public sewer facilities, no building permit for any use requiring on-site
sewage treatment and disposal shall be issued until a septic permit has first
been issued. Such system shall conform to all of the requirements of the Rice
County Environmental Health Services.
   (D)   Procedure.
      (1)   Persons requesting a building permit shall fill out a building
permit form and site plan application form available from the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   Completed building permit forms shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator. Upon review and approval of the Building Inspector, and if the
proposed development conforms in all respects to the zoning code, a building
permit shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator within a period of 60 days
upon permit fee payment.
      (3)   If the proposed development involves a zoning amendment, variance
or conditional use permit, the application, together with a building permit,
shall be submitted to the Planning Commission or Board of Appeals and
Adjustments, where applicable, and City Council for review and appropriate
action.
   (E)   Violation and penalties.
      (1)   Misdemeanor penalty. Any person, firm or corporation, who shall
violate any of the provisions hereof or who shall fail to comply with any of
the provisions hereof or who shall make any false statement in any document
required to be submitted under the provisions hereof shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (2)   Injunctive relief and other remedies. In the event of a violation
of this chapter, the city may institute appropriate actions or proceedings,
including requesting injunctive relief, to prevent, restrain, correct or abate
the violations. All costs incurred for corrective action may be recovered by
the city in a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction. These and
other remedies, as determined appropriate by the city, may be imposed upon the
applicant, permittee, installer or other responsible person either in addition
to or separate from other enforcement actions.
   (F)   Certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   A certificate of occupancy shall be obtained before any building
erected or structurally altered is occupied or used, the use of any such
building is altered.
      (2)   Application for a certificate of occupancy for a new building or
for an existing building which has been so altered shall be made as part of the
application for a building permit for such building as required by this
chapter. The certificate shall be issued within ten days after the construction
or alteration of such building or part has been completed in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter. Pending the issuance of such a certificate, the
Zoning Administrator may issue a temporary certificate of occupancy for a
period not exceeding six months during the completion of the erection of
alteration of such building. The temporary certificate shall not be construed
as in any way altering the respective rights, duties or obligations of the
owners or of the city relating to the use of occupancy of the premises or any
other matter except under such restrictions and provisions as will adequately
ensure the safety of the occupants.
      (3)   Application for a certificate of occupancy for the use of vacant
land or for a change in the character of the use of vacant land shall be made
to the Zoning Administrator in writing before such land shall be so occupied or
used. Such a certificate of occupancy shall be issued within three days after
the application has been made if the proposed use is in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Every certificate of occupancy shall state that the building or
proposed use of a building or land complies with all provisions of law and of
this chapter. A record of all certificate of occupancy shall be kept on file in
the office of the Zoning Administrator, and copies shall be furnished on
request to any person having propriety or tenancy in the building or land
affected. No fee shall be charged for a certificate of occupancy.
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator may revoke the certificate of occupancy if
the owner of the building has not established a lawn on the premises within one
growing season after the certificate of occupancy has been issued.
   (G)   Zoning compliance review.
      (1)   A zoning compliance review shall be required for the construction
of structures which do not require building permits to determine compliance
with zoning requirements such as setback, site coverage, structure height and
the like:
         (a)   Decks less than 30 inches above the ground and not attached to
the principal structure.
         (b)   Permanent fences less than six feet height.
         (c)   One story detached accessory structures, used as tool or storage
sheds, playhouses, and similar uses, less than 120 feet in building area.
         (d)   Signs.
      (2)   Any zoning compliance review application that fails to meet zoning
requirements shall be denied by the Zoning Administrator.
   (H)   Environmental review process.
      (1)   The city shall conduct environmental review associated with land
use and development projects consistent with the state environmental quality
board environmental review program as amended.
      (2)   Applicants shall agree in writing as part of the application to
reimburse the governing body prior to the issuance of any permits for all costs
including city staff, legal, and consultant fees incurred by the governing body
in review of the applicants project and its impact to the community.
      (3)   The applicant shall deposit with the city from time to time, an
amount determined by the Zoning Administrator necessary to cover the cost
associated with processing the application, including work associated with an
EAW and/or EIS prior to the commencement of the review or stage of the review.
The applicant shall reimburse the security fund for any deficits caused if the
amount actually expended or billed to the city by staff members and/or
consultants exceeds the security fund balance. The city shall refund any money
deposited in the security fund and not expended within 30 days after final
action on the application. The city shall not pay interest on such security
deposits.
   (I)   Fees.
      (1)   There shall be an application fee for all applications made
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter as set in the fee schedule adopted
by the City Council.
      (2)   Any person filing a petition for an amendment to this chapter,
requesting a variance or a change in regulations within any use district shall
pay the prescribed fees according to the schedule established by the City
Council.
      (3)   Municipal corporations and the city shall be exempt from the fee
requirements as prescribed by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2006-188, passed 1-26-2006)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND PROVISIONS
§ 153.040 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The zoning districts are so designed to assist in carrying out the intents
and purposes of the comprehensive plan and are based upon the comprehensive
plan which has the purpose of protecting the public health, safety, convenience
and general welfare. For the purpose of this chapter, the city is hereby
divided into the following zoning districts.
Symbols Names
Symbols Names
R-1     Single-Family Detached Residential (large lots)
R-1A    Single-Family Detached Residential (medium lots)
R-2     Single-Family Detached Residential
R-2A    Single-Family Detached and Duplex Residential
R-3     Townhouse and 4-plexes
R-4     Medium Density Residential
R-R     Rural Residential
B-1     Limited Business
B-2     Highway Business
B-3     Central Business
I-1     Light Industrial
I-2     Medium Industrial
P       Parks and Open Space
PF      Public Facilities and Government
OI      Original Industrial
C-I     Commercial-Industrial District
PUD     Planned Unit Development District (see
        Ch. 154 for PUD regulations)
 
   District use regulations - residential.
   (A)   R-1 Single-Family Detached Residential (large lots).
      (1)   Purpose.  The R-1 district is designed to provide for single-family
neighborhoods that are intended to preserve the character of a small town
atmosphere that are connected to public sewer and water systems.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Group family daycare facility licensed under Minnesota Rules
Parts 9502.0315 to 9502.0445 serving 14 or fewer children.
         (b)   Licensed in-home residential care facility for six or fewer
persons.
         (c)   Licensed day-care facility for 12 or fewer persons. Unlicensed
facilities subject to the requirements of customary home occupations in §
153.073.
         (d)   Public parks and playgrounds.
         (e)   Public and semi-public buildings.
         (f)   Public utility structure that is not intended for human
occupation, occupies an area of less than 500 square feet; or does not exceed
the height of the highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to
peak height of 17 feet, whichever is less.
         (g)   Single-family detached dwelling.
         (h)   Model homes; an administrative permit is required.
      (3)   Permitted accessory uses.
         (a)   Accessory structures and private garages.
         (b)   Fences.
         (c)   Gardening or other horticultural use where no sale of products
is conducted on the site.
         (d)   Gazebos and screened porches.
         (e)   Home occupations if all criteria is met
         (f)   Landscaping and decorative features.
         (g)   Off-street parking.
         (h)   Private play equipment.
         (i)   Private swimming pool.
         (j)   Roomers, a maximum of two per dwelling unit.
         (k)   Satellite dishes and solar collectors.
         (l)   Temporary buildings located for the purpose of construction on
the premises for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such
construction.
         (m)   Yard sales, provided that each sales event runs from Thursday at
8:00 a.m. to the following Sunday at 8:00 p.m. and there are no more than four
sales per year.
         (n)   Hobby beekeeping, as regulated by city policy and best
practices.
      (4)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Any house or other principal structure moved onto a lot.
         (b)   Cemeteries.
         (c)   Churches or places of worship.
         (d)   Educational institutions or facilities.
         (e)   Licensed in-home residential care facility for six or more
persons.
         (f)   Licensed day-care facility for 12 or more persons.
         (g)   Public utility structure that is intended for human occupation,
occupies an area of more than 500 square feet; or exceeds the height of the
highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to peak height of 17
feet, whichever is less.
      (5)   Interim uses. Information/sales centers; an interim use permit is
required.
      (6)   Minimum lot requirements and setbacks.
         (a)   Minimum lot area: 18,000 square feet
         (b)   Minimum floor area/dwelling unit: 960 square feet
         (c)   Minimum lot frontage: 100 feet
         (d)   Minimum lot depth: 150 feet
         (e)   Maximum lot coverage: 30%
         (f)   Maximum height: principal: 40 feet, accessory: 20 feet
         (g)   Minimum front setback: 35 feet
         (h)   Minimum rear setback: 30 feet
         (i)   Minimum side yard setback: 15 feet; corner lot: 35 feet
         (j)   The depth of the front yard of a lot shall be 30 feet deep
unless the average depth of at least two existing front yards, for buildings
within 150 feet along the same block front of the lot in question, are less or
greater than 30 feet, then the required front yards shall be the average depth
of such existing front yards. However, the depth of a front yard shall not be
less than 20 feet or be required to exceed 30 feet.
         (k)   A single-family house which legally existed or for which a valid
building permit had been granted on or before the effective date of this
section, may be expanded by an addition or dormer, provided the addition does
not extend into the existing side yard, and provided the combined width of the
side yard for the building and the adjacent building is not less than ten feet
and the existing side yard is at least five feet.
   (B)   R-1A Single-Family Detached Residential (medium lots).
      (1)   Purpose.  The R-1A district is designed to provide for single-
family neighborhoods that are intended to preserve the character of a small
town atmosphere that are connected to public sewer and water systems.
      (2)   Permitted uses.  Permitted uses in the R-lA district are as
follows:
         (a)   Agricultural uses limited to the raising of crops and forestry
limited to unplatted or outlotted property.
         (b)   Group family daycare facility licensed under Minnesota Rules
Parts 9502.0315 to 9502.0445 serving 14 or fewer children.
         (c)   Licensed in-home residential care facility for six or fewer
persons.
         (d)   Licensed day-care facility for 12 or fewer persons. Unlicensed
facilities subject to the requirements of customary home occupations in §
153.073.
         (e)   Public parks and playgrounds.
         (f)   Public and semi-public buildings.
         (g)   Public utility structure that is not intended for human
occupation, occupies an area of less than 500 square feet; or does not exceed
the height of the highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to
peak height of 17 feet, whichever is less.
         (h)   Single-family detached dwelling.
         (i)   Model homes; an administrative permit is required.
      (3)   Permitted accessory uses.
         (a)   Accessory structures and private garages.
         (b)   Fences.
         (c)   Gardening or other horticultural use where no sale of products
is conducted on the site.
         (d)   Gazebos and screened porches.
         (e)   Home occupations if all criteria is met.
         (f)   Landscaping and decorative features.
         (g)   Off-street parking.
         (h)   Private play equipment.
         (i)   Private swimming pool.
         (j)   Roomers, a maximum of two per dwelling unit.
         (k)   Satellite dishes and solar collectors.
         (l)   Temporary buildings located for the purpose of construction on
the premises for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such
construction.
         (m)   Yard sales, provided that each sales event runs from Thursday at
8:00 a.m. to the following Sunday at 8:00 p.m. and there are no more than four
sales per year.
         (n)   Hobby beekeeping, as regulated by city policy and best
practices.
      (4)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Any house or other principal structure moved onto a lot.
         (b)   Cemeteries.
         (c)   Churches or places of worship.
         (d)   Educational institutions or facilities.
         (e)   Licensed in-home residential care facility for six or more
persons.
         (f)   Licensed day-care facility for 12 or more persons.
         (g)   Public utility structure that is intended for human occupation,
occupies an area of more than 500 square feet; or exceeds the height of the
highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to peak height of 17
feet, whichever is less.
      (5)   Interim uses. Information/sales centers; an interim use permit is
required.
      (6)   Minimum lot requirements and setbacks.
         (a)   Minimum lot area: 11,000 square feet
         (b)   Minimum floor area/dwelling unit: 960 square feet
         (c)   Minimum lot frontage: 80 feet
         (d)   Minimum lot depth: 125 feet
         (e)   Maximum lot coverage: 45%
         (f)   Maximum height: principal: 40 feet, accessory: 20 feet
         (g)   Minimum front setback: 30 feet
         (h)   Minimum rear setback: 20 feet
         (i)   Minimum side yard setback: 10 feet; corner lot: 30 feet
         (j)   The depth of the front yard of a lot shall be 30 feet deep
unless the average depth of at least two existing front yards, for buildings
within 150 feet along the same block front of the lot in question, are less or
greater than 30 feet, then the required front yards shall be the average depth
of such existing front yards. However, the depth of a front yard shall not be
less than 20 feet or be required to exceed 30 feet.
         (k)   A single-family house which legally existed or for which a valid
building permit had been granted on or before the effective date of this
section, may be expanded by an addition or dormer, provided the addition does
not extend into the existing side yard, and provided the combined width of the
side yard for the building and the adjacent building is not less than ten feet
and the existing side yard is at least five feet.
   (C)   R-2 Single-Family Detached Residential.
      (1)   Purpose.  The R-2 district is designed to provide single-family
detached urban lots and also allow attached single-family and two-family
dwellings as conditional uses, all of which are connected to public sewer and
water systems.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Agricultural uses limited to the raising of crops and forestry
limited to unplatted or outlotted property.
         (b)   Group family daycare facility licensed under Minnesota Rules
Parts 9502.0315 to 9502.0445 serving 14 or fewer children.
         (c)   Licensed in-home residential care facility for six or fewer
persons.
         (d)   Licensed day-care facility for 12 or fewer persons. Unlicensed
facilities subject to the requirements of customary home occupations in §
153.073.
         (e)   Public parks and playgrounds.
         (f)   Public and semi-public buildings.
         (g)   Public utility structure that is not intended for human
occupation, occupies an area of less than 500 square feet; or does not exceed
the height of the highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to
peak height of 17 feet, whichever is less.
         (h)   Single-family detached dwelling.
         (i)   Model homes; an administrative permit is required.
      (3)   Permitted accessory uses.
         (a)   Accessory structures and private garages.
         (b)   Fences.
         (c)   Gardening or other horticultural use where no sale of products
is conducted on the site.
         (d)   Farmer’s market or Christmas tree sales when located on property
owned by churches or places of worship.
         (e)   Gazebos and screened porches.
         (f)   Home occupations if all criteria is met.
         (g)   Landscaping and decorative features.
         (h)   Off-street parking.
         (i)   Private play equipment.
         (j)   Private swimming pool.
         (k)   Roomers, a maximum of two per dwelling unit.
         (l)   Satellite dishes and solar collectors.
         (m)   Temporary buildings located for the purpose of construction on
the premises for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such
construction.
         (n)   Yard sales, provided that each sales event runs from Thursday at
8:00 a.m. to the following Sunday at 8:00 p.m. and there are no more than four
sales per year.
         (o)   Hobby beekeeping, as regulated by city policy and best
practices.
      (4)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Any house or other principal structure moved onto a lot.
         (b)   Attached single-family dwellings.
         (c)   Cemeteries.
         (d)   Churches or places of worship.
         (e)   Educational institutions or facilities.
         (f)   Licensed in-home residential care facility for six or more
persons.
         (g)   Licensed day-care facility for 12 or more persons.
         (h)   Public utility structure that is intended for human occupation,
occupies an area of more than 500 square feet; or exceeds the height of the
highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to peak height of 17
feet, whichever is less.
         (i)   Two family dwellings (duplex).
      (5)   Interim uses. Information/sales centers; an interim use permit is
required.
      (6)   Minimum lot requirements and setbacks.
         (a)   Minimum lot area:
               Single-family detached: 10,000 square feet
               Single-family attached/duplex: 12,000 square feet
         (b)   Minimum floor area/dwelling unit:
               Single-family detached: 960 square feet
               Single-family attached/duplex: 800 square feet
         (c)   Minimum lot frontage:
               Single-family detached: 75 feet
               Single-family attached/duplex: 80 feet
         (d)   Minimum lot depth: 130 feet
         (e)   Maximum lot coverage: 45%
         (f)   Maximum height: principal: 40 feet, accessory: 20 feet
         (g)   Minimum front setback: 30 feet
         (h)   Minimum rear setback: 20 feet
         (i)   Minimum side yard setback: 10 feet; corner lot: 30 feet
         (j)   The depth of the front yard of a lot shall be 30 feet deep
unless the average depth of at least two existing front yards, for buildings
within 150 feet along the same block front of the lot in question, are less or
greater than 30 feet, then the required front yards shall be the average depth
of such existing front yards. However, the depth of a front yard shall not be
less than 20 feet or be required to exceed 30 feet.
         (k)   A single-family house which legally existed or for which a valid
building permit had been granted on or before the effective date of this
section, may be expanded by an addition or dormer, provided the addition does
not extend into the existing side yard, and provided the combined width of the
side yard for the building and the adjacent building is not less than ten feet
and the existing side yard is at least five feet.
   (D)   R-2A Single Family Detached and Duplex Residential.
      (1)   Purpose.  The R-2A district is designed to provide detached single-
family urban lots, attached single-family and two-family dwellings or duplex as
permitted uses, all of which shall be connected to public sewer and water
systems.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Agricultural uses limited to the raising of crops and forestry.
         (b)   Attached single-family dwellings.
         (c)   Group family daycare facility licensed under Minnesota Rules
Parts 9502.0315 to 9502.0445 serving 14 or fewer children.
         (d)   Licensed in-home residential care facility for six or fewer
persons.
         (e)   Licensed day-care facility for 12 or fewer persons. Unlicensed
facilities subject to the requirements of customary home occupations in §
153.073.
         (f)   Public parks and playgrounds.
         (g)   Public and semi-public buildings.
         (h)   Public utility structure that is not intended for human
occupation, occupies an area of less than 500 square feet; or does not exceed
the height of the highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to
peak height of 17 feet, whichever is less.
         (i)   Single-family detached dwelling.
         (j)   Two-family dwellings (duplex).
         (k)   Model homes; an administrative permit is required.
      (3)   Permitted accessory uses.
         (a)   Accessory structures and private garages.
         (b)   Fences.
         (c)   Gardening or other horticultural use where no sale of products
is conducted on the site.
         (d)   Gazebos and screened porches.
         (e)   Home occupations if all criteria is met.
         (f)   Landscaping and decorative features.
         (g)   Off-street parking.
         (h)   Private play equipment.
         (i)   Private swimming pool.
         (j)   Roomers, a maximum of two per dwelling unit.
         (k)   Satellite dishes and solar collectors.
         (l)   Temporary buildings located for the purpose of construction on
the premises for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such
construction.
         (m)   Yard sales, provided that each sales event runs from Thursday at
8:00 a.m. to the following Sunday at 8:00 p.m. and there are no more than four
sales per year.
      (4)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Any house or other principal structure moved onto a lot.
         (b)   Cemeteries.
         (c)   Churches or places of worship.
         (d)   Educational institutions or facilities.
         (e)   Licensed in-home residential care facility for six or more
persons.
         (f)   Licensed day-care facility for 12 or more persons.
         (g)   Public utility structure that is intended for human occupation,
occupies an area of more than 500 square feet; or exceeds the height of the
highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to peak height of 17
feet, whichever is less.
      (5)   Interim use. Information/sales centers; an interim use permit is
required.
      (6)   Minimum lot requirements and setbacks.
         (a)   Minimum lot area.
               Single-family detached: 10,000 square feet
               Single-family attached/duplex: 12,000 square feet
         (b)   Minimum floor area/dwelling unit:
               Single-family detached: 960 square feet
               Single-family attached/duplex: 800 square feet
         (c)   Minimum lot frontage:
               Single-family detached: 75 feet
               Single-family attached/duplex: 80 feet
         (d)   Minimum lot depth: 130 feet
         (e)   Maximum lot coverage: 45%
         (f)   Maximum height: principal: 40 feet, accessory: 20 feet
         (g)   Minimum front setback: 30 feet
         (h)   Minimum rear setback: 20 feet
         (i)   Minimum side yard setback: 10 feet; corner lot: 30 feet
         (j)   The depth of the front yard of a lot shall be 30 feet deep
unless the average depth of at least two existing front yards, for buildings
within 150 feet along the same block front of the lot in question, are less or
greater than 30 feet, then the required front yards shall be the average depth
of such existing front yards. However, the depth of a front yard shall not be
less than 20 feet or be required to exceed 30 feet.
         (k)   A single-family house which legally existed or for which a valid
building permit had been granted on or before the effective date of this
chapter, may be expanded by an addition or dormer, provided the addition does
not extend into the existing side yard, and provided the combined width of the
side yard for the building and the adjacent building is not less than ten feet
and the existing side yard is at least five feet.
   (E)   R-3 Townhouse and 4-plexes.
      (1)   Purpose.  The R-3 district is designed to provide for areas that
are capable of supporting multiple-family dwellings in terms of public
utilities and services, and thereby allowing for a variety of housing types in
greater densities of up to ten dwelling units/acre.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   4-plexes.
         (b)   Attached single-family.
         (c)   Public parks and playgrounds.
         (d)   Public and semi-public buildings.
         (e)   Public utility structure that is not intended for human
occupation, occupies an area of less than 500 square feet; or does not exceeds
the height of the highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to
peak height of 17 feet, whichever is less.
         (f)   Townhomes.
         (g)   Model homes; an administrative permit is required.
      (3)   Permitted accessory uses.
         (a)   Common garages.
         (b)   Fences.
         (c)   Gardening or other horticultural use where no sale of products
is conducted on the site.
         (d)   Gazebos and screened porches.
         (e)   Home occupations if all criteria is met.
         (f)   Landscaping and decorative features.
         (g)   Off-street parking.
         (h)   Private play equipment.
         (i)   Private swimming pool.
         (j)   Recreational rooms and rental offices.
         (k)   Roomers, a maximum of two per dwelling unit.
         (l)   Satellite dishes and solar collectors.
         (m)   Temporary buildings located for the purpose of construction on
the premises for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such
construction.
         (n)   Yard sales, provided that each sales event runs from Thursday at
8:00 a.m. to the following Sunday at 8:00 p.m. and there are no more than four
sales per year.
      (4)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Any house or other principal structure moved onto a lot.
         (b)   Cemeteries.
         (c)   Churches or places of worship.
         (d)   Educational institutions or facilities.
         (e)   Licensed in-home residential care facility for six or less
persons.
         (f)   Licensed day-care facility for 12 or less persons.
         (g)   Manufactured home park.
         (h)   Public utility structure that is intended for human occupation,
occupies an area of more than 500 square feet; or exceeds the height of the
highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to peak height of 17
feet, whichever is less.
         (i)   Single-family detached dwellings.
      (5)   Interim use. Information/sales centers; an interim use permit is
required.
      (6)   Minimum lot requirements and setbacks.
         (a)   Minimum lot area: 3,500 square feet per dwelling unit
         (b)   Minimum lot depth: 80 feet
         (c)   Maximum lot coverage: 60%
         (d)   Maximum height: principal: 40 feet, accessory: 20 feet
         (e)   Minimum front setback: 25 feet
         (f)   Minimum rear setback: 30 feet
         (g)   Minimum side yard setback; attached dwelling units: ten feet
         (h)   Minimum side yard setback; detached single-family dwellings:
five feet
         (i)   Minimum side yard setback; corner lot: 25 feet.
   (F)   R-4 Medium Density Residential.
      (1)   Purpose.  The R-4 district is designed to provide for areas that
are equipped with sufficient capacity of utilities to support higher densities
and thereby allowing for a variety of housing types in greater densities of up
to 20 dwelling units/acre.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Agricultural uses limited to the raising of crops and forestry.
         (b)   Apartments.
         (c)   Assisted living care facilities.
         (d)   Public parks and playgrounds.
         (e)   Public utility structure that is not intended for human
occupation, occupies an area of less than 500 square feet; or does not exceeds
the height of the highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to
peak height of 17 feet, whichever is less.
         (f)   Townhouses and multi-family units.
      (3)   Permitted accessory uses.
         (a)   Common garages.
         (b)   Gazebos and screened porches.
         (c)   Play equipment.
         (d)   Recreational rooms and rental offices.
         (e)   Satellite dishes and solar collectors.
         (f)   Swimming pools.
         (g)   Temporary buildings located for the purpose of construction on
the premises for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such
construction.
      (4)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Any house or other principal structure moved onto a lot.
         (b)   Cemeteries.
         (c)   Churches or places of worship.
         (d)   Educational institutions or facilities.
         (e)   Manufactured home park.
         (f)   Nursing and retirement homes.
         (g)   Public utility structure that is intended for human occupation,
occupies an area of more than 500 square feet; or exceeds the height of the
highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to peak height of 17
feet, whichever is less.
      (5)   Minimum lot requirements and setbacks.
         (a)   Minimum lot area: 1,400 square feet per dwelling unit
         (b)   Maximum lot coverage: 70%
         (c)   Maximum height: principal: 45 feet, accessory: 20 feet
         (d)   Minimum front setback: 25 feet
         (e)   Minimum rear setback: 25 feet
         (f)   Minimum side yard setback: 25 feet; corner lot: 25 feet
   (G)   R-R Rural Residential.
      (1)   Purpose.  The RR district is designed to provide for a large lot
rural residential lifestyle, which is separate from and not in conflict, which
commercial agricultural activities. Within these districts, public sewer and
water systems are not available and will require on-site facilities until such
time public sewer and other utilities are available.
      (2)   Permitted uses.  Permitted uses in the RR district are as follows:
         (a)   Agricultural uses limited to the raising of crops and forestry
limited to unplatted or outlotted property.
         (b)   Group family daycare facility licensed under Minnesota Rules
Parts 9502.0315 to 9502.0445 serving 14 or fewer children.
         (c)   Licensed in-home residential care facility for six or fewer
persons.
         (d)   Licensed day-care facility for 12 or fewer persons. Unlicensed
facilities subject to the requirements of customary home occupations in §
153.073.
         (e)   Public parks and playgrounds.
         (f)   Public and semi-public buildings.
         (g)   Public utility structure that is not intended for human
occupation, occupies an area of less than 500 square feet; or does not exceed
the height of the highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to
peak height of 17 feet, whichever is less.
         (h)   Single-family detached dwelling.
      (3)   Permitted accessory uses.
         (a)   Accessory structures and private garages.
         (b)   Fences.
         (c)   Gardening or other horticultural use where no sale of products
is conducted on the site.
         (d)   Gazebos and screened porches.
         (e)   Home occupations if all criteria is met.
         (f)   Landscaping and decorative features.
         (g)   Off-street parking.
         (h)   Private play equipment.
         (i)   Private swimming pool.
         (j)   Roomers, a maximum of two per dwelling unit.
         (k)   Satellite dishes and solar collectors.
         (l)   Temporary buildings located for the purpose of construction on
the premises for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such
construction.
         (m)   Yard sales, provided that each sales event runs from Thursday at
8:00 a.m. to the following Sunday at 8:00 p.m. and there are no more than four
sales per year.
      (4)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Cemeteries.
         (b)   Churches or places of worship.
         (c)   Educational institutions or facilities.
         (d)   Kennels.
         (e)   Public utility structure that is intended for human occupation,
occupies an area of more than 500 square feet; or exceeds the height of the
highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to peak height of 17
feet, whichever is less.
      (5)   Minimum lot requirements and setbacks.
         (a)   Minimum lot area: 1.5 acres
         (b)   Minimum floor area/dwelling unit: 960 square feet
         (c)   Minimum lot frontage: 150 feet
         (d)   Minimum lot depth: 150 feet
         (e)   Minimum lot coverage: 30%
         (f)   Maximum height: principal: 40 feet, accessory: 20 feet
         (g)   Minimum front setback: 50 feet
         (h)   Minimum rear setback: 50 feet
         (i)   Minimum side yard setback: 25 feet
   (H)   B-1 Limited Business.
      (1)   Purpose. The B-1 district is intended to allow areas for the
development of limited business such as professional offices, clinics, and
other similar uses that are compatible with residential neighborhoods. The
district may be used as a transitional or buffer district between residential
and commercial uses. The office uses allowed in this district are those in
which there is limited contact with the public and no manufacturing and
exterior display, or selling of merchandise to the general public is allowed.
Although not in compliance with the designated uses for the B-1 District,
documented legal nonconforming uses with a CUP, located on parcels that have
been re-zoned or permitted prior to this adoption, shall be given reasonable
consideration when a request is made to amend the CUP, to permit viable
operation of the use (such as single-family homes, car wash, feed mill and
bank).
      (2)   Definitions.
         CLINIC. A building in which a group of physicians, dentists, and/or
allied professional assistants are associated for carrying on their profession.
The CLINIC may include a dental or medical laboratory, but shall not include
in-patient care or operating rooms for major surgery.
         CLUB AND LODGES, PRIVATE. An association of persons who are bona fide
members paying annual dues, which owns, hires or leases the building, property
or a portion thereof; the use of the premises being restricted to members and
their guests. It shall be permissible to serve food and meals on the premises,
provided adequate facilities are available.
         DAY CARE CENTERS, LICENSED. Any facility, public or private, which for
gain or otherwise regularly provides one or more persons with care, training,
supervision, habilitation, rehabilitation, or development guidance on a regular
basis, for periods of less than 24 hours per day, in a place other than the
client's own home. LICENSED DAY CARE FACILITIES include but are not limited to
family day care homes, group family day care homes, day care centers, day
nurseries, nursery schools, development achievement centers, and adult daycare
centers.
         DRIVE-THROUGH. Any restaurant, financial institution, product- or
service-vending enterprise where business is transacted through a window or
other mechanical device with a patron who is in a vehicle.
         FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS. A financial institution is a commercial
banking establishment or savings and loan association chartered by the State of
Minnesota or the United States.
         FUNERAL HOME. A building that provides facilities for funerals; a
chapel for funeral services; rooms for viewing the remains in caskets (slumber
rooms, reposing rooms, viewing rooms, visitation rooms) before final services
or cremation; rooms for preparation of bodies (embalming, cosmetic treatment
and clothing of the deceased); displayed rooms and storage for caskets; garages
for hearses and other equipment; and administrative offices. A FUNERAL HOME may
include living quarters for the funeral director/owner.
         HEALTH AND RECREATIONAL CLUBS. A building with the primary purpose of
offering one or more facilities for instruction, training, encouragement, or
assistance in physical fitness, in return for the payment of a fee entitling
the member to the use of the facilities.
         OFF-SALE. Retail sale in the original package of any alcoholic
beverages, intoxicating liquor, 3.2% malt liquor or other items, as part of a
commercial transaction from the municipal liquor store for consumption away
from the dispensary.
         ON-SALES. A building with facilities for serving any alcoholic
beverages, intoxicating liquor, 3.2% malt liquor or other items and short order
foods.
         PERSONAL SERVICES. Uses such as laundromats, barbershops or beauty
salons, spas and photography studios.
         PHARMACY. Retail sale of any pharmaceuticals or other similar items
wherein the merchandise is exhibited or sold.
         PLACES OF WORSHIP. A church, synagogue, temple, mosque, or other
facility that is used for worship by persons of similar beliefs, or a special
purpose building that is designed or particularly adapted for the primary use
of conducting on a regular basis, religious services and associated accessory
uses by a religious congregation and which building together with its accessory
buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized
to sustain public worship.
         PROFESSIONAL AND BUSINESS OFFICE AND SERVICES. A building in which
professional and management duties and services are carried out, including
psychiatrists and psychologists' offices; architectural, engineering, planning,
legal offices, and photographic studios and businesses of a non-retail nature
and clerical services and duties are carried out, including, corporate banks,
credit unions, insurance and real estate offices.
         PUBLIC BUILDINGS. Buildings or structures owned and operated by the
city.
         PUBLIC PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS. Includes all uses such as tennis courts,
ballfields, picnic areas, and the like that are commonly provided for the
public at parks, playgrounds, community centers and other sites, owned and
operated by a unit of government for the purpose of providing recreation.
         RESTAURANTS, STANDARD. An establishment whose principal business is
the sale of food and/or beverages to customers in a ready-to-consume state, and
whose principal method of operation includes one or both of the following
characteristics:
            1.   Customers, normally provided with an individual menu, are
served their foods and beverages by a restaurant employee at the same table or
counter at which food and beverages are consumed;
            2.   A cafeteria-type operation where food and beverages generally
are consumed within the restaurant building.
         RETAIL SHOPS AND SERVICES. Stores and shops selling personal services
or goods for final consumption or the provision of services to the general
public that produce minimal off-site impacts.
         SCHOOLS. A building with equipment, courses of study, class schedules,
enrollment of pupils ordinarily in pre-kindergarten through grade 12 or any
portion thereof, and staff meeting the standards established by the
Commissioner of Education.
         SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED RESIDENTIAL. A detached dwelling containing one
dwelling unit designed for occupancy by one family.
      (3)   Special requirements. All applications for building permits (in the
case of new construction or expansion or certificates of occupancy (in the case
of existing facilities) for improvements within the B-1 District shall be
subject to submission of complete building plans, including landscape designs
for any side or rear yard fencing a residential district to the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission shall review and approve before a building
permit and certificate of occupancy may be issued. The landscape design must
identify and size all plants and screenings. Within 60 days of submission of
such plans and designs, the Planning Commission shall recommend approval or
disapproval of such plans and designs to the City Council, which shall make the
final determination as to approval or disapproval.
      (4)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Clinic.
         (b)   Club and lodges.
         (c)   Day care centers, licensed.
         (d)   Financial institutions without drive-through facilities
including automated kiosks.
         (e)   Funeral home.
         (f)   Off-sales.
         (g)   Personal services.
         (h)   Pharmacy.
         (i)   Places of worship.
         (j)   Professional and business office and services.
         (k)   Public buildings.
         (l)   Public parks and playgrounds.
         (m)   Schools.
         (n)   Multi-tenant buildings provided that the uses are specified as
permitted uses in the B-1 District.
         (o)   Retail shops.
      (5)   Permitted accessory uses.
         (a)   Accessory structures, private garages.
         (b)   Fences.
         (c)   Landscaping and decorative features.
         (d)   Off-street loading.
         (e)   Off-street parking.
         (f)   Signs.
         (g)   Temporary buildings located for the purpose of construction on
the premises for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such
construction.
      (6)    Conditional uses.
         (a)   Grain elevators, grain storage structures and feed mills,
provided the following requirements are met:
            1.   The maximum height may be extended for the following
associated structures and apparatuses:
               a.   Grain leg distributor towers and spouting: 150 feet.
               b.   Grain storage structures and elevator buildings: 100 feet.
         (b)   Financial institutions with drive-through facilities including
automated kiosks.
         (c)   Health and recreational clubs.
         (d)   Multi-tenant buildings provided that the uses are specified as
permitted or conditional uses in the B-1 District.
         (e)   On-sales.
         (f)   Restaurants, standard excluding drive-through facilities.
         (g)   Single-family detached residential.
      (7)   Minimum lot requirements and setbacks.
         (a)   Minimum lot depth: 75 feet.
         (b)   Maximum lot coverage: 80%.
         (c)   Maximum height, principal and accessory: 35 feet.
         (d)   Minimum front setback: 10 feet.
         (e)   Minimum rear setback: 30 feet.
         (f)   Minimum side yard setback: 15 feet; corner lot: 10 feet.
      (8)    Other standards.
         (a)   Building design and construction materials. In addition to other
restrictions of this section and any other chapter, any building or structure
within the B-1 District shall meet the following standards:
            1.   All buildings shall be designed to be compatible with
surrounding uses.
            2.   All exterior wall surfaces shall consist of one or more of the
following:
               a.   Face brick.
               b.   Breakoff brick.
               c.   Breakoff block.
               d.   Stone or glass curtain wall.
               e.   Specifically designed precast concrete units if the
surfaces have been integrally treated with an applied decorative material or
textures.
            3.   All subsequent additions and outbuildings constructed after
the erection of an original building construction and shall be designed in a
manner conforming with the original architectural design and appearance.
            4.   All exterior trash enclosures or other accessory structures
shall be constructed of the same materials and colors as the principal
building. The height of these structures shall not exceed that of the principal
structure.
            5.   All mechanical equipment, whether roof mounted or ground
mounted, shall be completely screened from the ground-level view of adjacent
properties and public street.
         (b)   Landscaping. All areas in the B-1 District not covered by
buildings, driveways, and paved parking lots shall be sodded, or covered by
ground cover deemed acceptable by the Planning Commission. Installation of this
landscaping during periods of frost, snow, or drought may be cause for the
Planning Commission to require a letter of credit or escrow account. The city
may require the screening or fencing of any side or rear yard facing a
residential district.
         (c)   Lighting. Lighting shall be consistent in character throughout
the entire property site, in both design and bulb type. Any light fixture must
be placed in such a manner that no light-emitting surface is visible from any
residential area or public/private roadway, walkway, trail or other public way
when viewed at ground level. Light directed upward is prohibited. Externally
lit signs, display, building, and aesthetic lighting must be lit from the top
and shine downward. Lighting must be shielded to prevent direct glare. The
level of lighting shall not exceed 0.5 lumens at any residential property line
or 1.0 lumens at any non-residential property line. The maximum height for
exterior lighting is 20 feet. All nonessential lighting will be required to be
turned off after business hours, leaving only the necessary lighting for site
security.
         (d)   Parking requirements. Parking requirements given in §
153.077 are adopted in their entirety as though repeated verbatim in this
section.
         (e)   Signage requirements. Signage requirements given in §
153.079 are adopted in their entirety as though repeated verbatim in this
section.
         (f)   Performance standards. The following rules shall apply to all
uses in this district except that legal nonconforming uses may continue at the
same performance level at which they operated before they became nonconforming
in relation to this section:
            1.   All uses and activities shall be inside buildings, with no
outside storage or activity allowed, unless a conditional use permit is
granted.
            2.   There shall be no noise carrying beyond a lot upon which a
business is located, except for normal automobile and pedestrian activity.
   (I)   B-2 Highway and Business Service.
      (1)   Purpose.  The B-2 district accommodates uses that provide a wide
range of goods and services for the entire community. Businesses in this
district are dependent on a large volume of traffic, thus need to be highly
visible and accessible and prefer to locate in close proximity to major
roadways. It is the intent of this district to promote development that
maximizes the full development potential in areas adjacent to large traffic
volume roadways. Zoning standards are intended to promote compatibility in
form, function, and style.
      (2)   Definitions.
         (a)   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. A place where animals or pets are given medical
or surgical treatment and the boarding of animals is limited to short-term care
incidental to the hospital use.
         (b)   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR - MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or
reconditioning of engines, motor vehicles, tractor, or trailers, including body
work, frame work, welding, and major painting surface.
         (c)   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR - MINOR.  The replacement of any part or
repair of any part which does not require the removal of the engine head or
pan, engine transmission or differential; incidental body and fender work,
minor painting and upholstering service when the service above stated is
applied to passenger automobiles and trucks, not in excess of 7,000 pounds
gross vehicle weight.
         (d)   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A retail place of business engaged
primarily in the sale of motor vehicle sales, but also may be engaged in
supplying goods and services generally required in the operation and
maintenance of motor vehicles. These may include sale of petroleum products
sale and servicing of tires, batteries, automotive accessories and replacement
items, washing and lubrication services, and the performance of automotive
maintenance and repair.
         (e)   CLINIC.  A building in which a group of physicians, dentists,
and/or allied professional assistants are associated for carrying on their
profession. The CLINIC may include a dental or medical laboratory, but shall
not include in-patient care or operating rooms for major surgery.
         (f)   COMMERCIAL CAR WASHES. A principal, accessory building, or part
of a principal building equipped with mechanical equipment or conveyor system
and other equipment and facilities for washing automobiles.
         (g)   CONVENIENCE FACILITY. An establishment where the principal use
is the sale of gasoline or any other automobile engine fuel (stored only in
underground tanks), kerosene, motor oil, lubricants, grease or minor
accessories, directly to the public on the premises. In addition, household and
convenience items, food or other miscellaneous retail goods commonly associated
with the same also may be sold.
         (h)   DAY CARE CENTERS, LICENSED.  Any facility, public or private,
which for gain or otherwise regularly provides one or more persons with care,
training, supervision, habilitation, rehabilitation, or development guidance on
a regular basis, for periods of less than 24 hours per day, in a place other
than the client’s own home. LICENSED DAY CARE FACILITIES include but are not
limited to family day care homes, group family day car homes, day care centers,
day nurseries, nursery schools, development achievement centers, and adult
daycare centers.
         (i)   DRIVE-THROUGH. Any restaurant, financial institution, product or
service vending enterprise where business is transacted through a window or
other mechanical device with a patron who is in a vehicle.
         (j)   FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.  A commercial banking establishment or
savings and loan association chartered by the State of Minnesota or the United
States.
         (k)   GARDEN CENTER.  A place of business where retail and wholesale
products and produce are sold to the retail consumer. These centers, which may
include a nursery and/or greenhouses, import most of the items sold. These
items may include plants, handicrafts, nursery products and stock, landscaping
materials, fertilizers, potting soil, hardware, lawn and garden power equipment
and machinery, hoes, rakes, shovels, and other garden tools and utensils.
         (l)   HEALTH AND RECREATIONAL CLUBS. A building with the primary
purpose of offering one or more facilities for instruction, training,
encouragement, or assistance in physical fitness, in return for the payment of
a fee entitling the member to the use of the facilities.
         (m)   HOTEL. A building containing guest rooms in which lodging is
provided with or without meals for compensation and which is open to transient
or permanent guests or both, and where no provision is made for cooking in any
guest room, and which ingress and egress to and from all rooms is made through
inside lobby or office supervised by a person in charge.
         (n)   MOTELS. An establishment consisting of a group of attached or
detached living or sleeping accommodations with bathroom, located on a single
zoning lot and designed for use by transient automobile tourists, and
furnishing customary hotel services.
         (o)   OFF-SALE. Retail sale in the original package of any alcoholic
beverages, intoxicating liquor, 3.2% malt liquor or other items, as part of a
commercial transaction form the municipal liquor store for consumption away
from the dispensary.
         (p)   ON-SALES. A building with facilities for serving any alcoholic
beverages, intoxicating liquor, 3.2% malt liquor or other items and short order
foods.
         (q)   OPEN SALES LOT. Any land used or occupied for the purpose of
displaying of goods for sale, rent, lease, or trade, where such goods are not
enclosed within a building and under the open sky prior to sale.
         (r)   PHARMACY.  Retail sale of any pharmaceuticals or other similar
items wherein the merchandise is exhibited or sold.
         (s)   PLACES OF WORSHIP.  A church, synagogue, temple, mosque, or
other facility that is used for worship by persons of similar beliefs, or a
special purpose building that is designed or particularly adapted for the
primary use of conducting on a regular basis, religious services and associated
accessory uses by a religious congregation and which building together with its
accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a religious body
organized to sustain public worship.
         (t)   PROFESSIONAL AND BUSINESS OFFICE AND SERVICES. A building in
which professional and management duties and services are carried out,
including psychiatrists and psychologists’ offices; architectural, engineering,
planning, legal offices, and photographic studios and businesses of a nonretail
nature and clerical services and duties are carried out, including, corporate
banks, credit unions, insurance and real estate offices.
         (u)   PUBLIC BUILDINGS.  Buildings or structures owned and operated by
the city.
         (v)   PUBLIC PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS.  Includes all uses such as tennis
courts, ballfield, picnic areas, and the like that are commonly provided for
the public at parks, playgrounds, community centers and other sites, owned and
operated by a unit of government for the purpose of providing recreation.
         (w)   PUBLIC UTILITY STRUCTURES. Persons, corporations or governments
supplying gas, electric, transportation, water, sewer, or land line telephone
service to the general public. For the purpose of this chapter, “Commercial
Wireless Telecommunication Services” shall not be considered a public utility
use and is defined separately.
         (x)   RECREATIONAL, COMMERCIAL.  Includes all uses such as bowling
alleys, driving ranges, mini-golf courses, movie theaters that are privately
owned and operated with the intention of earning a profit by providing
entertainment for the public.
         (y)   RESTAURANTS, FAST FOOD. An establishment whose principal
business is the sale of food and/or beverages in a ready-to-consume state for
consumption: (1) within restaurant building; (2) within a motor vehicle parked
on the premises; or (3) off the premises as carry-out orders; and whose
principal method of operation includes the following characteristics: (a) food
and/or beverages are usually served in edible containers or in paper, plastic
or other disposable containers; (b) the customer is not served food at his or
her table by an employee, but receives it at a counter, window, or similar
facility and carries it to another location on or off the premises for
consumption.
         (z)   RESTAURANTS, STANDARD.  An establishment whose principal
business is the sale of food and/or beverages to customers in a ready-to-
consume state, and whose principal method of operation includes one or both of
the following characteristics: (1) customers, normally provided with an
individual menu, are served their foods and beverages by a restaurant employee
at the same table or counter at which food and beverages are consumed; (2) a
cafeteria-type operation where food and beverages generally are consumed within
the restaurant building.
         (aa)   RETAIL SHOPS AND SERVICES.  Stores and shops selling personal
services or goods for final consumption or the provision of services to the
general public that produce minimal off-site impacts.
      (3)   Special requirements. Approval of building permits (in the case of
new construction) or expansion of certificates of occupancy (in the case of
existing facilities) for improvements within the B-2 District shall require
submission to the Planning Commission of complete building plans, including
landscape designs for any side or rear yard fencing a residential district. The
Planning Commission shall review and approve the plans before a building permit
and certificate of occupancy may be issued. The landscape design must identify
and size all plants and screenings. Within 60 days of submission of such plans
and designs, the Planning Commission shall recommend approval or disapproval of
such plans and designs to the City Council, which shall make a final
determination as to approval or disapproval.
      (4)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Automobile repair - minor.
         (b)   Clinic.
         (c)   Garden center.
         (d)   Health and recreational clubs.
         (e)   Off-sales.
         (f)   On-sales.
         (g)   Pharmacy excluding drive-through facilities.
         (h)   Places of worship.
         (i)   Professional and business office and services.
         (j)   Public buildings.
         (k)   Public parks and playgrounds.
         (l)   Public utility structures.
         (m)   Restaurants, fast food excluding drive-through facilities.
         (n)   Restaurants, standard excluding drive-through facilities.
         (o)   Retail shops and services.
      (5)   Permitted accessory uses.
         (a)   Accessory structures, private garages.
         (b)   Fences.
         (c)   Landscaping and decorative features.
         (d)   Off-street loading.
         (e)   Off-street parking.
         (f)   Signs.
         (g)   Temporary buildings located for the purpose of construction on
the premises for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such
construction.
         (h)   Temporary outdoor sales.
      (6)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Animal hospital.
         (b)   Automobile repair - major.
         (c)   Commercial car washes.
         (d)   Convenience facility.
         (e)   Day care centers, licensed.
         (f)   Fast food restaurants with a drive-through.
         (g)   Financial institutions with drive-through including automated
kiosks.
         (h)   Hotel and motels.
         (i)   Multi-parcels, tenants, buildings provided that the uses are
specified as permitted or conditional uses in the B-2 District.
         (j)   Open sales lot.
         (k)   Outdoor recreational areas.
         (l)   Outdoor seating areas for accessory to permitted or conditional
uses in the B-2 District.
         (m)   Pharmacy with drive-through.
      (7)   Minimum lot requirements and setbacks.
         (a)   Minimum lot area: 10,000 square feet
         (b)   Minimum lot width: 50 feet
         (c)   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet
         (d)   Maximum lot coverage: 90%
         (e)   Maximum height: principal and accessory: 35 feet
         (f)   Minimum front setback: 20 feet
         (g)   Minimum rear setback: 20 feet for buildings that abut
nonresidential districts or 40 feet when abutting residential districts
         (h)   Minimum side yard setback: 20 feet; corner lot: 20 feet
      (8)   Other standards.
         (a)   Building design and construction materials. In addition to other
restrictions of this City Code, any building or structure within the B-
2 District shall meet the following standards:
            1.   All buildings shall be designed to be compatible with
surrounding uses.
            2.   All exterior wall surfaces shall consist of one or more of the
following:
               a.   Face brick.
               b.   Breakoff brick.
               c.   Breakoff block.
               d.   Stone or glass curtain wall.
               e.   Specifically designed precast concrete units if the
surfaces have been integrally treated with an applied decorative material or
textures.
            3.   All subsequent additions and outbuildings constructed after
the erection of an original building construction shall be designed in a manner
conforming with the original architectural design and appearance.
            4.   All exterior trash enclosures or other accessory structures
shall be constructed of the same materials and colors as the principal
building. The height of these structures shall not exceed that of the principal
structure.
            5.   All mechanical equipment, whether roof mounted or ground
mounted, shall be completely screened from the ground-level view of adjacent
properties and public street.
         (b)   Landscaping. All areas in the B-2 District not covered by
buildings, driveways, and paved parking lots shall be sodded, or covered by
ground cover deemed acceptable by the planning commission. The city may require
a letter of credit or escrow account if installation of this landscaping occurs
during periods of frost, snow, or drought. The city may require the screening
or fencing of any side or rear yard facing a residential district.
         (c)   Lighting. Lighting shall be consistent in character throughout
the entire property site, in both design and bulb type. Light directed upward
is prohibited. Externally lit signs, display, building, and aesthetic lighting
must be lit from the top and shine downward. Lighting must be shielded to
prevent direct glare. The level of lighting shall not exceed 0.5 lumens at any
residential property line or 1.0 lumen at any non-residential property line.
The maximum height for exterior lighting is 20 feet. All non-essential lighting
will be required to be turned off after business hours, leaving only the
necessary lighting for site security.
         (d)   Parking requirements. Parking requirements given in §
153.077 are adopted in their entirety as though repeated verbatim in this
section.
         (e)   Signage requirements. Signage requirements given in §
153.079 are adopted in their entirety as though repeated verbatim in this
section.
         (f)   Performance standards. The following rules shall apply to all
uses in this district except that legal nonconforming uses may continue at the
same performance level at which they operated before they became nonconforming
in relation to this section:
            1.   All uses and activities shall be inside buildings, with no
outside storage or activity allowed, unless a conditional use permit is
granted.
            2.   There shall be no noise carrying beyond a lot upon which a
business is located, except for normal automobile and pedestrian activity.
         (g)   Nonconforming materials. All construction which repairs,
reconstructs, remodels, or otherwise alters an existing commercial and
industrial building shall not be required to meet all the standards, but a
proportion. The level be determined by either the percentage of increased value
of the expansion will create or the percentage of increased square footage that
will be created, whichever is less.
   (J)   B-3 Central Business.
      (1)   Purpose. The B-3 District is intended to sustain the Historic
Central Business District and to augment and increase its viability and
prosperity by allowing the development and redevelopment of a variety of uses
and activities, made compatible through the enforcement of design standards.
The downtown is intended to serve the entire city and be a diversified
commercial center that offers the full range of comparison goods, sales and
services; cultural and civic opportunities, financial and professional offices,
and public uses. Although this district relies on automobile traffic, the needs
of pedestrians and bicyclists are deemed equally important. Pedestrian and
bicycle routes, landscaping, and appropriate amenities are important components
of this district.
      (2)   Definitions.
         (a)   CLUB AND LODGES, PRIVATE. An association of persons who are bona
fide members paying annual dues, which owns, hires or leases the building,
property or a portion thereof; the use of the premises being restricted to
members and their guests. It shall be permissible to serve food and meals on
the premises, provided adequate facilities are available.
         (b)   DANCE, HEALTH, AND MARTIAL ARTS STUDIOS. A building with the
primary purpose of offering one or more facilities for instruction, training,
encouragement, or assistance in physical fitness, in return for the payment of
a fee entitling the member to the use of the facilities.
         (c)   EXTERIOR STORAGE. The storage of any goods, materials,
equipment, manufactured products and similar items not fully enclosed by a
building.
         (d)   FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS. A financial institution is a commercial
banking establishment or savings and loan association chartered by the State of
Minnesota or the United States.
         (e)   HARD SURFACE (PARKING). Shall mean only non-aggregate impervious
concrete or asphalt.
         (f)   HOTEL. A building containing guest rooms in which lodging is
provided with or without meals for compensation and which is open to transient
or permanent guests or both, and where no provision is made for cooking in any
guest room, and which ingress and egress to and from all rooms is made through
an inside lobby or office supervised by a person in charge.
         (g)   INDOOR ENTERTAINMENT, CULTURAL FACILITIES, AND SERVICES AND
AMUSEMENT SERVICES. An enclosed building that houses indoor uses such as
bowling alleys, roller and ice skating rinks, and movie theaters that are
privately owned and operated with the intention of earning a profit by
providing entertainment for the public.
         (h)   OFFICES AND PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. A building in which
professional and management duties and services are carried out and/or
businesses of a nonretail nature and clerical services and duties are carried
out. Uses may include professional consulting businesses and health care
services.
         (i)   OFF-SALE. Retail sale in the original package of any alcoholic
beverages, intoxicating liquor, 3.2% malt liquor or other items, as part of a
commercial transaction from the municipal liquor store for consumption away
from the dispensary.
         (j)   ON-SALES. A building with facilities for serving any alcoholic
beverages, intoxicating liquor, 3.2% malt liquor or other items and short order
foods.
         (k)   PERSONAL SERVICES. Uses such as laundromats, barbershops or
beauty salons, and photography studios.
         (l)   PHARMACY. Retail sale of any pharmaceuticals or other similar
items wherein the merchandise is exhibited or sold.
         (m)   PUBLIC BUILDINGS. Buildings or structures owned and operated by
the city, county, state, or federal governments.
         (n)   PUBLIC PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS. Includes all uses such as tennis
courts, ballfield, picnic areas, and the like that are commonly provided for
the public at parks, playgrounds, community centers and other sites, owned and
operated by a unit of government for the purpose of providing recreation.
         (o)   RESTAURANTS, FAST FOOD. An establishment whose principal
business is the sale of food and/or beverages in a ready-to-consume state for
consumption (1) within restaurant building, (2) within a motor vehicle parked
on the premises, or (3) off the premises as carry-out orders; and whose
principal method of operation includes the following characteristics (a) food-
and/or beverages are usually served in edible containers or in paper, plastic
or other disposable containers; (b) the customer is not served food at his or
her table by an employee, but receives it at a counter, window, or similar
facility and carries it to another location on or off the premises for
consumption.
         (p)   RESTAURANTS, STANDARD. An establishment whose principal business
is the sale of food and/or beverages to customers in a ready-to-consume state,
and whose principal method of operation includes one or both of the following
characteristics (1) customers, normally provided with an individual menu, are
served their foods and beverages by a restaurant employee at the same table or
counter at which food and beverages are consumed; (2) a cafeteria-type
operation where food and beverages generally are consumed within the restaurant
building.
         (q)   RETAIL SHOPS, SERVICE AND REPAIR. Stores and shops selling
personal services or goods for final consumption or the provision of services
to the general public that produce minimal off-site impacts.
         (r)   TEMPORARY OUTDOOR SALES AND DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE.  Products
displayed outdoors and intended to be sold at retail by a related and
established principal use, provided said products and displays do not interfere
with vehicular or pedestrian circulation or visibility.
      (3)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Club and lodges.
         (b)   Dance, health and martial arts studios.
         (c)   Day care facilities.
         (d)   Financial institutions without drive-in facilities.
         (e)   Multi-tenant buildings provided that the uses are specified as
permitted uses in the B-3 District.
         (f)   Museums and art galleries.
         (g)   Offices and professional services.
         (h)   Off-sales.
         (i)   On-sales.
         (j)   Personal services.
         (k)   Pharmacy.
         (l)   Public buildings.
         (m)   Public parking lots.
         (n)   Private parking lots.
         (o)   Public parks and playgrounds.
         (p)   Restaurants, fast food excluding drive-through facilities.
         (q)   Restaurants, standard excluding drive-through facilities.
         (r)   Retail shops, service and repairs.
      (4)   Permitted accessory uses.
         (a)   Accessory structures, private garages.
         (b)   Exterior storage.
         (c)   Fences.
         (d)   Landscaping and decorative features.
         (e)   Off-street loading.
         (f)   Off-street parking.
         (g)   Outdoor seating areas.
         (h)   Signs.
         (i)   Temporary outdoor sales and display of merchandise.
      (5)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Financial institutions with drive-in facilities.
         (b)   Hotels.
         (c)   Indoor entertainment, cultural facilities, and services and
amusement services.
         (d)   Multi-tenant buildings provided that the uses are specified as
permitted or conditional uses in the B-3 District.
         (e)   Residential uses (apartments), provided the following
requirements are met:
            1.   Residential uses shall be secondary to ground floor permitted
uses.
            2.   Ground floor residential uses shall not be permitted.
            3.   In order to promote active ground floor permitted uses,
residential uses sharing the same lot/building as a ground floor permitted use
shall not be permitted after a period of six months of the ground floor use
being vacant. Exceptions: (1) Once a ground floor permitted use is occupied,
residential uses may continue again; (2) In the case that a legitimate business
lead for a prospective tenant exists, the City Council may approve a reasonable
time extension.
            4.   The designated residential space of the building shall meet
the requirements stated in the adopted building code, state electrical code,
and state fire code as amended from time to time.
            5.   Minimum occupancy area: one (1) resident per 250 square feet.
            6.   Maximum density: six residents per lot/parcel.
            7.   Minimum dwelling unit area: 600 square feet per dwelling unit.
            8.   At least two on-premise or adjacent (off-street) parking
stalls shall be provided per dwelling unit. Parking areas shall be directly
accessed through public alleys. Parking areas shall be hard surfaced and
clearly marked. Adjacent off-street parking on neighboring properties shall
require an approved agreement.
            9.   A rear yard entrance and security lighting shall be provided.
            10.   An on-premise enclosed garbage/dumpster area shall be
provided.
      (6)   Minimum lot requirements and setbacks:
         (a)   Minimum lot area: 3,500 square feet
         (b)   Minimum lot width: 25 feet
         (c)   Minimum lot depth: 50 feet
         (d)   Maximum lot coverage: 100%
         (e)   Maximum height: principal and accessory: 42 feet, unless
authorized by conditional use permit.
         (f)   Minimum front setback: none required
         (g)   Minimum rear setback: none required
         (h)   Minimum side yard setback: none required; corner lot: none
      (7)   Other standards:
         (a)   Building design and construction materials: in addition to other
restrictions of this section and any other chapter, any building or structure
within the B-3 District shall meet the following standards:
            1.   All buildings shall be designed to be compatible with
surrounding structures.
            2.   All exterior wall surfaces shall consist of one or more of the
following:
               a.   Face brick
               b.   Breakoff brick
               c.   Breakoff block
               d.   Stone or glass curtain wall
               e.   Specifically designed precast concrete units if the
surfaces have been integrally treated with an applied decorative material or
textures.
            3.   At least 40% of the front face of the building on the first
floor shall have windows.
            4.   All subsequent additions, accessory buildings (which serve the
principal commercial use), and any buildings that support a residential use
constructed after the erection of an original building, shall be designed in a
manner conforming to the original architectural design and appearance.
            5.   All exterior trash enclosures, other accessory structures, and
any buildings that support a residential use shall be constructed of the same
materials and colors as the principal building. The height of these structures
shall not exceed that of the principal structure.
            6.   All mechanical equipment, whether roof mounted or ground
mounted, shall be completely screened from the ground-level view of adjacent
properties and public street.
         (b)   Landscaping: All areas in the B-3 district not covered by
buildings, driveways, and paved parking lots shall be sodded, or covered by
ground cover deemed acceptable by the City Council. Installation of this
landscaping during periods of frost, snow, or drought may be cause for the City
Council to require a letter of credit or escrow account. The city may require
the screening or fencing of any side or rear yard facing a residential
district.
         (c)   Parking requirements.
            1.   All off-street parking areas shall met the parking
requirements given in §
153.077, Parking. In the event that adjacent on-street parking is insufficient
for a particular use, the City Council may require on-premise or adjacent (off-
street) parking.
            2.   Residential uses shall provide at least two on-premise or
adjacent (off-street) - parking stalls per dwelling unit. Parking areas shall
be directly accessed through public alleys. Parking areas shall be hard
surfaced and clearly marked.
         (d)   Signage requirements. Signage requirements given in §
153.079 shall be met.
   (K)   I-1 Light Industrial.
      (1)   Purpose. The I-1 District shall serve as a transition between more
industrial uses and residential and other business uses. This district is
appropriate for manufacturing, warehousing, and similar industrial uses because
of access to warehousing, thoroughfares, the full complement of urban services
such as sewer and water, and distance from residential districts. These areas
are intended to encourage the development of industrial uses which are clean,
quiet, and free of hazardous or objectionable elements such as noise, odor,
dust, smoke, glare, or other pollutants. These industries shall be compatible
with each other and with surrounding land uses.
      (2)   Definitions.
         (a)   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. A place where animals or pets are given medical
or surgical treatment and the boarding of animals is limited to short-term care
incidental to the hospital use.
         (b)   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR-MAJOR.  General repair, rebuilding or
reconditioning of engines, motor vehicles, tractor, or trailers, including body
work, frame work, welding, and major painting surface.
         (c)   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR-MINOR. The replacement of any part or repair
of any part which does not require the removal of the engine head or pan,
engine transmission or differential; incidental body and fender work, minor
painting and upholstering service when the service above stated is applied to
passenger automobiles and trucks, not in excess of 7,000 pounds gross vehicle
weight.
         (d)   COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE.  Licensed
commercial wireless telecommunications service includes cellular, personal
communications services (PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced
specialized mobilized radio (ESMR), paging and similar services that are
marketed to the general public.
         (e)   CONTRACTORS’ OFFICES AND YARDS.  An area where vehicles,
equipment, and/or construction materials and supplies commonly used by
building, excavation, roadway construction and similar contractors are stored
or serviced.
         (f)   GARDEN CENTER. A place of business where retail and wholesale
products and produce are sold to the retail consumer. These centers, which may
include a nursery and/or greenhouses, import most of the items sold. These
items may include plants, handicrafts, nursery products and stock, landscaping
materials, fertilizers, potting soil, hardware, lawn and garden power equipment
and machinery, hoes, rakes, shovels, and other garden tools and utensils, which
may be conducted within a building or without.
         (g)   MANUFACTURING-LIGHT.  Fabrication, processing, or assembly
employing only electric or other substantially noiseless and inoffensive power
sources, utilizing hand labor or quiet machinery, and processes, and free from
neighborhood disturbing agents, such as odors, gas, fumes, smoke, cinders,
flashing or excessively bright lights, refuse matter, electromagnetic
radiation, heat or vibration. Such uses include, but are not limited to, the
following: lumberyard, machine shops, products assembly, sheet metal shops,
plastics, electronics, signs and displays, printing publishing, fabricated
metal parts, appliances, clothing, textiles, and used auto parts.
         (h)   MINISTORAGE. An enclosed storage facility containing multiple
individual units used solely for the storage of personal property. These units
are intended to be leased or rented to private individuals. This facility is
not intended to be used for commercial or industrial storage, nor shall the
storage of flammable liquids or other hazardous materials be permitted.
         (i)   OPEN SALES OR STORAGE LOT. Any land used or occupied for the
purpose of displaying of goods, parts, products, or fuel for sale, rent, lease,
trade, or storage, where such goods are not enclosed within a building and
under the open sky prior to sale or use.
         (j)   POLE BUILDING.  A structure built without perimeter foundations,
having solid wood, built-up wood, or steel columns which either rest on
concrete caissons or are direct-buried in the earth with a footing pad, having
a roof system of wood or steel engineered trusses, and having exterior  roofs
or walls of corrugated steel or other architectural metals. Metal engineered
buildings with full perimeter foundations are not included in this definition.
         (k)   PROFESSIONAL AND BUSINESS OFFICE AND SERVICES.  A building in
which professional and management duties and services are carried out,
including psychiatrists and psychologists’ offices; architectural, engineering,
planning, legal offices, and photographic studios and businesses of a nonretail
nature and clerical services and duties are carried out, including, corporate
banks, credit unions, insurance and real estate offices.
         (l)   PUBLIC BUILDINGS.  Buildings or structures owned and operated by
the city or other governmental bodies.
         (m)   PUBLIC PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS. Includes all uses such as tennis
courts, ballfield, picnic areas, and the like that are commonly provided for
the public at parks, playgrounds, community centers and other sites, owned and
operated by a unit of government for the purpose of providing recreation.
         (n)   PUBLIC UTILITY STRUCTURES. Persons, corporations or governments
supplying gas, electric, transportation, water, sewer, or land line telephone
service to the general public. For the purpose of this chapter, Commercial
Wireless Telecommunication Services shall not be considered a public utility
use and is defined separately.
         (o)   WAREHOUSING.  Warehousing is the commercial storage of
merchandise and personal property.
      (3)   Special requirements.  All applications for building permits (in
the case of new construction or expansion) or certificates of occupancy (in the
case of existing facilities) for improvements within the I-1 District shall be
subject to submission of complete building plans, including landscape designs
to the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall review and approve
before a building permit and certificate of occupancy may be issued. The
landscape design must identify and size all plants and screenings. Within 60
days of submission of such plans and designs, the Planning Commission shall
recommend approval or disapproval of such plans and designs to the City
Council, which shall make the final determination as to approval or
disapproval.
      (4)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Animal hospital.
         (b)   Automobile repair - minor.
         (c)   Contractors’ offices and yards.
         (d)   Garden center.
         (e)   Manufacturing - light.
         (f)   Ministorage.
         (g)   Professional and business office and services.
         (h)   Public buildings and facilities.
         (i)   Public parks and playgrounds.
         (j)   Public utility structure that is not intended for human
occupation, occupies an area of less than 500 square feet; or does not exceed
the height of the highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to
peak height of 17 feet, whichever is less.
         (k)   Warehousing.
      (5)   Permitted accessory uses.
         (a)   Accessory structures.
         (b)   Fences.
         (c)   Landscaping and decorative features.
         (d)   Off-street loading.
         (e)   Off-street parking.
         (f)   Retail sales of products manufactured on the site shall be
allowed as an accessory use. A maximum of 20% of the floor area of the total
building area. Parking as required for retail uses shall be provided in
addition to that required for the principal use. If excessive on-street parking
of vehicles occurs, the sales shall cease or reduced to the level that off-
street parking can accommodate.
         (g)   Signage.
         (h)   Temporary buildings located for the purpose of construction on
the premises for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such
construction.
      (6)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Automobile repair - major.
         (b)   Commercial wireless telecommunication service.
         (c)   Multiple parcels, tenants, buildings, provided that the uses are
specified as permitted and conditional uses in the district.
         (d)   Open sales or storage lot.
         (e)   Public utility structure that is intended for human occupation,
occupies an area of more than 500 square feet; or does exceed the height of the
highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to peak height of 17
feet.
      (7)   Prohibited uses.
         (a)   Asphalt plants.
         (b)   Distillation processes.
         (c)   Junkyards.
         (d)   Livestock feeding yards, slaughterhouse, or processing plants.
         (e)   Manufacture of explosives.
         (f)   Mining operations.
         (g)   Petroleum or ethanol refineries.
         (h)   Sanitary landfills.
         (i)   Any industry that creates an excessive odor, noise, air, or
environmental pollution problem.
      (8)   Minimum lot requirements and setbacks.
         (a)   Minimum lot area: 20,000 square feet
         (b)   Minimum lot frontage: 100 feet
         (c)   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet
         (d)   Maximum lot coverage: 80%
         (e)   Maximum height: principal and accessory: 40 feet
         (f)   Minimum front setback: 35 feet
         (g)   Minimum rear setback: 25 feet
         (h)   Minimum side yard setback: 20 feet; corner lot: 35 feet
      (9)   Other standards.
         (a)   Landscaping. All areas in the I-1 District not covered by
buildings, driveways, and paved parking lots shall be seeded, sodded, or
covered by ground cover deemed acceptable by the Planning Commission.
Installation of this landscaping during periods of frost, snow, or drought may
be cause for the Planning Commission to require a letter of credit or escrow
account. The city may require the screening or fencing of any side or rear yard
facing a residential district.
         (b)   Building design and construction materials. In addition to other
restrictions of this section and any other chapter, any building or structure
within the I-1 District shall meet the following standards:
            1.   All buildings shall be designed to be compatible with
surrounding uses.
            2.   All exterior wall surfaces directly facing a public street
shall consist of one or more of the following:
               a.   Face brick.
               b.   Breakoff brick.
               c.   Breakoff block.
               d.   Stone or glass curtain wall.
               e.   Specifically designed precast concrete units if the
surfaces have been integrally treated with an applied decorative material or
textures.
               f.   Factory fabricated cast-in-place or precast panel
construction, if the panel materials are any of those names above, glass,
prefinished metal (other than unpainted galvanized steel or iron) or plastic.
            3.   Sixty-five percent of the front of a metal building must be
masonry, veneer, glass, or other material approved by the Planning Commission.
“Front” is defined as the first floor of the side of the building facing the
street. On corner lots, “front” is defined as the side of the building having
the address.
            4.   In case of metal buildings, the Planning Commission shall
prefer masonry buildings: but other types of construction shall be considered
by the Planning Commission during the plan review. The Planning Commission
shall make a final recommendation to the City Council, which makes the final
determination approving construction materials.
            5.   Pole buildings are prohibited.
            6.   The applicant shall not be required to meet all of the
standards when repairing, reconstructing, remodeling, or otherwise altering an
existing industrial building, but will be required to meet a proportion of the
standards. The required proportion of each standard that must be met will be
determined by either the percentage of increased value to the parcel
attributable to the expansion or the percentage of square footage that will be
added, whichever is less.
         (c)   Parking requirements. Parking requirements given in §
153.077 are adopted in their entirety as though repeated verbatim in this
section, with the following additional requirements.
         (d)   Driveway restrictions.  Each business within the I-1 District
may have one driveway. At the discretion of the Planning Commission, more than
one driveway may be permitted or required. Consideration of multiple driveways,
turn lanes and appropriate right-of-ways shall be addressed by the Planning
Commission during the overall plan review prior to issuing a building permit.
         (e)   Loading area requirements. All loading areas in the district
shall be on the side or in the rear of the lot and shall be no less than ten
feet from abutting residential areas.
         (f)   Storage requirements. All outside storage shall be screened from
view by dense vegetation or 90% opaque screening. All waste containers shall be
screened from the view by 90% opaque screening and kept in good repair. Chain
link fencing with plastic inserts is prohibited.
         (g)   Performance standards. Performance standards as to noise, odor,
glare, exterior lighting, smoke, fire and safety hazards, water supply, waste
disposal, and performance testing are found throughout
Chapter 153.
   (L)   I-2 Medium Industrial.
      (1)   Purpose. The I-2 District is intended to accommodate more intense
manufacturing and processing that would not be allowed in the I-1 Light
Industrial District. Proposed uses would include manufacturing, production,
warehousing with heavy truck traffic and other uses which may generate nominal
off-site impacts.
      (2)   Definitions.
         (a)   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. A place where animals or pets are given medical
or surgical treatment and the boarding of animals is limited to short-term care
incidental to the hospital use.
         (b)   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR - MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or
reconditioning of engines, motor vehicles, tractor, or trailers, including body
work, frame work, welding, and major painting surface.
         (c)   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR MINOR. The replacement of any part or repair
of any part which does not require the removal of the engine head or pan,
engine transmission or differential;  incidental body and fender work, minor
painting and upholstering service when the service above the stated is applied
to passenger automobiles and trucks, not in excess of 7,000 pounds gross
vehicle weight.
         (d)   COMMERCIAL KENNELS. Any place where four or more of any type of
domestic pets, over four months of age, are boarded, bred, trained, or offered
for sale.
         (e)   COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE. Licensed
commercial wireless telecommunications service includes cellular, personal
communications services (PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced
specialized mobilized radio (ESMR), paging and similar services that are
marketed to the general public.
         (f)   CONTRACTORS’ OFFICES AND YARDS.  An area where vehicles,
equipment, and/or construction materials and supplies commonly used by
building, excavation, roadway construction and similar contractors are stored
or serviced.
         (g)   GARDEN CENTER. A place of business where retail and wholesale
products and produce are sold to the retail consumer. These centers, which may
include a nursery and/or greenhouses, import most of the items sold. These
items may include plants, handicrafts, nursery products and stock, landscaping
materials, fertilizers, potting soil, hardware, lawn and garden power equipment
and machinery, hoes, rakes, shovels, and other garden tools and utensils, which
may be conducted within a building or without.
         (h)   LABORATORY, MEDICAL OR DENTAL. An establishment primarily
engaged in providing professional analytic or diagnostic services to the
medical profession, or to the patient, on direction of physician; or an
establishment primarily engaged in making dentures, artificial teeth, and
orthodontic appliances to order for the dental profession.
         (i)   MANUFACTURING.  Manufacturing, processing, packaging, or
assembly of products and also breweries, cement production, stone cutting,
brick, glass, batteries (wet cell), ceramic products, mill working, metal
polishing and platting, paint (pigment manufacturing), rubber products,
plastics, meat packing, flour, feed grain milling, milling, food and
agricultural products, plastics, coal, tar, distillation of bones, sawmill,
lime, gypsum, plaster of paris, glue, size, cloth, and similar use.
         (j)   MANUFACTURING - LIGHT. Fabrication, processing, or assembly
employing only electric or other substantially noiseless and inoffensive power
sources, utilizing hand labor or quiet machinery, and processes, and free from
neighborhood disturbing agents, such as odors, gas, fumes, smoke, cinders,
flashing or excessively bright lights, refuse matter, electromagnetic
radiation, heat or vibration. Such uses include, but are not limited to, the
following: lumberyard, machine shops, products assembly, sheet metal shops,
plastics, electronics, signs and displays, printing publishing, fabricated
metal parts, appliances, clothing, textiles, and used auto parts.
         (k)   MINISTORAGE. An enclosed storage facility containing multiple
individual units used solely for the storage of personal property. These units
are intended to be leased or rented to private  individuals. This facility is
not intended to be used for commercial or industrial storage, nor shall the
storage of flammable liquids or other hazardous materials be permitted.
         (l)   OPEN SALES or STORAGE LOT.  Any land used or occupied for the
purpose of displaying of goods, parts, products, or fuel for sale, rent, lease,
trade, or storage, where such goods are not enclosed within a building and
under the open sky prior to sale or use.
         (m)   POLE BUILDING. A structure built without perimeter foundations,
having solid wood, built-up wood, or steel columns which either rest on
concrete caissons or are direct-buried in the earth with a footing pad, having
a roof system of wood or steel engineered trusses, and having exterior roofs or
walls of corrugated steel or other architectural metals. Metal engineered
buildings with full perimeter foundations are not included in this definition.
         (n)   PROFESSIONAL AND BUSINESS OFFICE AND SERVICES. A building in
which professional and management duties and services are carried out,
including psychiatrists and psychologists’ offices; architectural, engineering,
planning, legal offices, and photographic studios and businesses of a nonretail
nature and clerical services and duties are carried out, including, corporate
banks, credit unions, insurance and real estate offices.
         (o)   PUBLIC BUILDINGS.  Buildings or structures owned and operated by
the city.
         (p)   PUBLIC PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS. Includes all uses such as tennis
courts, ballfield, picnic areas, and the like that are commonly provided for
the public at parks, playgrounds, community centers and other sites, owned and
operated by a unit of government for the purpose of providing recreation.
         (q)   PUBLIC UTILITY STRUCTURES.  Persons, corporations or governments
supplying gas, electric, transportation, water, sewer, or land line telephone
service to the general public. For the purpose of this chapter, Commercial
Wireless Telecommunication Services shall not be considered a public utility
use and is defined separately.
         (r)   RESEARCH/DESIGN FACILITIES. Medical, chemical, electrical,
metallurgical, or other scientific research and quality control, conducted in
accordance with the provisions of the zoning ordinance.
         (s)   TRUCK TERMINAL. Any use, area or building where cargo, trucks,
truck parts, loading equipment and the like, is stored and/or where trucks load
and unload on a regular basis.
         (t)   WAREHOUSING.  Warehousing is the commercial storage of
merchandise and personal property.
         (u)   WHOLESALE BUSINESS. Establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in selling merchandise to retailers; to industrial,
commercial, institutional, or professional business users, or to other
wholesalers; or acting as agents or brokers and buying merchandise for, or
selling merchandise to, individuals or companies.
      (3)   Special requirements. All applications for building permits (in the
case of new construction or expansion or certificates of occupancy (in the case
of existing facilities) for improvements within the I-2 District shall be
subject to submission of complete building plans, including landscape designs
to the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall review and approve
before a building permit and certificate of occupancy may be issued. The
landscape design must identify and size all plants and screenings. Within 60
days of submission of such plans and designs, the Planning Commission shall
recommend approval or disapproval of such plans and designs to the City
Council, which shall make the final determination as to approval or
disapproval.
      (4)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Animal hospital.
         (b)   Automobile repair - minor.
         (c)   Contractors’ offices and yards.
         (d)   Garden center.
         (e)   Laboratory, medical or dental.
         (f)   Manufacturing.
         (g)   Manufacturing - light.
         (h)   Ministorage.
         (i)   Professional and business office and services.
         (j)   Public buildings and facilities.
         (k)   Public parks and playgrounds.
         (l)   Public utility structure that is not intended for human
occupation, occupies an area of less than 500 square feet; or does not exceed
the height of the highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to
peak height of 17 feet, whichever is less.
         (m)   Research/design facilities.
         (n)   Truck terminal.
         (o)   Warehousing.
         (p)   Wholesale business.
      (5)   Permitted accessory uses.
         (a)   Accessory structures.
         (b)   Fences.
         (c)   Landscaping and decorative features.
         (d)   Off-street loading.
         (e)   Off-street parking.
         (f)   Retail sales of products manufactured on the site shall be
allowed as an accessory use. A maximum of 20% of the floor area of the total
building area. Parking as required for retail uses shall be provided in
addition to that required for the principal use. If excessive on-street parking
of vehicles occurs, the sales shall cease or reduced to the level that off-
street parking can accommodate.
         (g)   Signage.
         (h)   Temporary buildings located for the purpose of construction on
the premises for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such
construction.
      (6)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Agricultural uses limited to the raising of crops and forestry.
         (b)   Automobile repair - major.
         (c)   Commercial kennels.
         (d)   Commercial wireless telecommunication service.
         (e)   Daycare facilities for 12 or more persons.
         (f)   Multi-parcels, tenants, buildings provided that the uses are
specified as permitted or conditional uses in the I-2 District.
         (g)   Open sales or storage lot.
         (h)   Public utility structure that is intended for human occupation,
occupies an area of more than 500 square feet; or does exceed the height of the
highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to peak height of 17
feet.
      (7)   Prohibited uses.
         (a)   Acid manufacturing.
         (b)   Asphalt plants.
         (c)   Creosote treatment or manufacture.
         (d)   Distillation processes.
         (e)   Junkyards.
         (f)   Livestock feeding yards, slaughterhouse, or processing plants.
         (g)   Manufacture of explosives.
         (h)   Mining operations.
         (i)   Permanent or temporary storage of hazardous waste as a principal
use.
         (j)   Petroleum or ethanol refineries.
         (k)   Rendering plants.
         (l)   Sanitary landfills.
         (m)   Sludge disposal.
         (n)   Any industry that creates an excessive odor, noise, air, or
environmental pollution problem.
      (8)   Minimum lot requirements and setbacks.
         (a)   Minimum lot area: 40,000 square feet
         (b)   Minimum lot frontage: 150 feet
         (c)   Minimum lot depth: 250 feet
         (d)   Maximum lot coverage: 75%
         (e)   Maximum height: principal and accessory: 40 feet
         (f)   Minimum front setback: 45 feet.
         (g)   Minimum rear setback 25 feet.
         (h)   Minimum side yard setback: 30 feet; corner lot: 45 feet
      (9)   Other standards.
         (a)   Landscaping: All areas in the I-2 District not covered by
buildings, driveways, and paved parking lots shall be seeded, sodded, or
covered by ground covered by ground cover deemed acceptable by the Planning
Commission. Installation of this landscaping during periods of frost, snow, or
drought may be cause for the Planning Commission to require a letter of credit
or escrow account. The city may require the screening or fencing of any side or
rear yard facing a residential district.
         (b)   Building design and construction materials. In addition to other
restrictions of this section and any other chapter, any building or structure
within the I-2 District shall meet the following standards:
            1.   All buildings shall be designed to be compatible with
surrounding uses.
            2.   All exterior wall surfaces directly facing a public street
shall consist of one or more of the following:
               a.   Face brick.
               b.   Breakoff brick.
               c.   Breakoff block.
               d.   Stone or glass curtain wall.
               e.   Specifically designed precast concrete units if the
surfaces have been integrally treated with an applied decorative material or
textures.
               f.   Factory fabricated cast-in-place or precast panel
construction, if the panel materials are any of those names above, glass,
prefinished metal (other than unpainted galvanized steel or iron) or plastic.
            3.   Sixty-five percent of the front of a metal building must be
masonry, veneer, glass, or other material approved by the planning commission.
“Front” is defined as the first floor of the side of the building facing the
street. On corner lots, “front” is defined as the side of the building having
the address.
            4.   In case of metal buildings, the Planning Commission shall
prefer masonry buildings: but other types of construction shall be considered
by the Planning Commission during the plan review. The Planning Commission
shall make a final recommendation to the City Council, which makes the final
determination approving construction materials.
            5.   In cases of construction which repairs, reconstructs,
remodels, or otherwise alters an existing industrial building, the applicant
shall not be required to meet all of the standards, but a proportion. The level
be determined by either the percentage of increased value the expansion will
create or the percentage of increased square footage that will be created,
whichever is less.
               a.   Parking requirements. Parking requirements given in §
153.077 are adopted in their entirety as though repeated verbatim in this
section, with the following additional requirements.
               b.   Driveway restrictions. Each business within the I-
2 District may have one driveway. At the discretion of the Planning Commission,
more than one driveway may be permitted or required. Consideration of multiple
driveways, turn lanes and appropriate right-of-ways shall be addressed by the
Planning Commission during the overall plan review prior to issuing a building
permit.
               c.   Loading area requirements. All loading areas in the
district shall be on the side or in the rear of the lot and shall be no less
than ten feet from abutting residential areas.
               d.   Storage requirements. All outside storage shall be screened
from view by dense vegetation or 90% opaque screening. All waste containers
shall be screened from the view by 90% opaque screening and kept in good
repair. Chain link fencing with plastic inserts is prohibited.
               e.   Performance standards as to noise, odor, glare, exterior
lighting, smoke, fire and safety hazards, water supply, waste disposal and
performance testing are found throughout
Chapter 153.
   (M)   P Parks and Open Space. 
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Parks and Open Space District is to
reserve public land for less intensive public land uses such as parks, trails,
open space, recreational activities, environmental protection and other similar
uses, and therefore ensuring the continued health, safety and general welfare
of the community.
      (2)   Other requirements.
         (a)   See
Chapter 94, Parks and Recreation, as amended.
         (b)   All permitted, accessory and conditional uses, except customary
events and recreation, shall be reviewed by the Parks and Recreation Commission
and/or City Administrator or his or her designee for compliance with the
Comprehensive Plan, Parks and Open Space Master Plan, City Code, and other
applicable plans and regulations. The City Council may also review these uses
from time to time.
      (3)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Concessions.
         (b)   Events.
         (c)   Historic buildings, grounds and memorial markers.
         (d)   Natural or designed ponds, wetlands, waterways and stormwater
areas.
         (e)   Nature and conservation areas.
         (f)   Open space.
         (g)   Other uses customary to parks, open space and recreation.
         (h)   Parks.
         (i)   Public shelters, buildings and facilities.
         (j)   Recreation and public recreation facilities and areas.
         (k)   Trails and pathways.
         (l)   Tree and landscape nurseries.
      (4)   Accessory uses.
         (a)   Accessory structures and sheds.
         (b)   Advertisements.
         (c)   Exterior storage.
         (d)   Fencing.
         (e)   Flags.
         (f)   Gardening and other horticultural uses.
         (g)   Landscaping and decorative features.
         (h)   Lighting.
         (i)   Off-street parking.
         (j)   Open and enclosed park shelters.
         (k)   Scoreboards.
         (l)   Seating and viewing areas.
         (m)   Signage.
      (5)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Fenced-in off-leash dog parks.
         (b)   Freestanding towers, antennas, communication towers and
associated accessory buildings shall be prohibited within 500 feet of
recreational areas and facilities. Exception: recreational trails and pathways
may be allowed within 500 feet.
         (c)   Private recreational facilities and areas.
         (d)   Utility structures, stations and related equipment.
         (e)   Wind energy turbines and associated accessory buildings:
            1.    Shall be prohibited within 500 feet of recreational areas and
facilities. Exception: recreational trails and pathways may be allowed within
500 feet.
            2.   Shall be prohibited within 1,000 feet of any residential
dwelling unit.
      (6)   Minimum lot requirements and setbacks.
         (a)   Minimum lot/parcel area: 5,000 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot/parcel width: N/A.
         (c)   Minimum street frontage: 50 feet.
         (d)   Minimum lot/parcel area depth: N/A.
         (e)   Maximum lot/parcel coverage: N/A.
         (f)   Maximum height: principal structures: N/A, accessory structures:
N/A.
         (g)   Minimum front setback: 0 feet.
         (h)   Minimum rear yard: 0 feet.
         (i)   Minimum side setback: 0 feet.
      (7)   Nonconforming uses. See §
153.008, Nonconforming Uses, as amended.
   (N)   PF Public Facilities and Government.
      (1)   Purpose. The Public Facilities and Government District is intended
to provide areas for public and semi-public use by federal, state, county,
municipal and other governmental entities, including educational and public
care uses.
      (2)   Other requirements. All permitted, accessory and conditional uses,
except customary events and recreation, shall be reviewed by the City Council
and/or City Administrator or his or her designee for compliance with the
Comprehensive Plan, Capital Improvement Plan, Parks and Open Space Master Plan,
City Code, and other applicable plans and regulations.
      (3)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Composting areas.
         (b)   Events.
         (c)   Fire, police, severe weather and emergency facilities.
         (d)   Government offices and buildings for government operations.
         (e)   Historical buildings, grounds and memorial markers.
         (f)   Lift stations.
         (g)   Natural or designed ponds, wetlands, waterways and stormwater
areas.
         (h)   Nature and conservation areas.
         (i)   Open space.
         (j)   Parks.
         (k)   Public hospitals and clinics.
         (l)   Public libraries.
         (m)   Public shelters, buildings and facilities.
         (n)   Public works garages and related uses.
         (o)   Pump houses.
         (p)   Recreation and public recreation facilities and areas.
         (q)   Satellite dishes, building mounted or freestanding.
         (r)   Trails and pathways.
         (s)   Tree and landscape nurseries.
         (t)   Utility structures, stations and related equipment.
         (u)   Water and wastewater treatment facilities and related equipment.
         (v)   Water towers and reservoirs.
         (w)   Well houses.
      (4)   Accessory uses.
         (a)   Accessory structures and sheds.
         (b)   Exterior storage.
         (c)   Fencing.
         (d)   Flags.
         (e)   Gardening and other horticultural uses.
         (f)   Landscaping and decorative features.
         (g)   Lighting.
         (h)   Off-street parking.
         (i)   Open and enclosed park shelters.
         (j)   Seating and viewing areas.
         (k)   Signage.
         (l)   Solar collectors.
      (5)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Childcare facilities associated with churches and places of
worship.
         (b)   Churches and places of worship.
         (c)   Freestanding towers, antennas, communication towers and
associated accessory buildings shall be prohibited within 500 feet of
recreational areas and facilities. Exception: recreational trails and pathways
may be allowed within 500 feet.
         (d)   Schools and educational facilities.
         (e)   Wind energy turbines and associated accessory buildings:
            1.   Shall be prohibited within 500 feet of recreational areas and
facilities. Exception: recreational trails and pathways may be allowed within
500 feet.
            2.   Shall be prohibited within 1,000 feet of any residential
dwelling unit.
      (6)   Minimum lot requirements and setbacks.
         (a)   Minimum lot/parcel area: N/A.
         (b)   Minimum lot/parcel width: N/A.
         (c)   Minimum street frontage: N/A.
         (d)   Minimum lot/parcel area depth: N/A.
         (e)   Maximum lot/parcel coverage: N/A.
         (f)   Maximum height: principal structures: N/A, accessory structures:
N/A.
         (g)   Minimum front setback: 0 feet
         (h)   Minimum rear yard: 0 feet.
         (i)   Minimum side setback: 0 feet.
      (7)   Nonconforming uses. See §
153.008, Nonconforming Uses, as amended.
   (O)   OI Original Industrial District.
      (1)   Purpose. The OI District is intended to accommodate a mix of
limited commercial and industrial uses such as warehousing, manufacturing,
automobile repair and other similar uses with less restrictive standards
compared to the I-1 and I-2 Districts. Furthermore, the purpose of the OI
District is to encourage the development and redevelopment only in the original
industrial park area, along Delaware Street SE and Florida Street SE. Uses
within the OI District shall be clean, quiet and free of hazardous or
objectionable elements such as noise, odor, dust, smoke, glare or other
pollutants. Uses and structures within the OI District shall be compatible with
each other and with surrounding land uses.
      (2)   Definitions.
         ANIMAL HOSPITAL. A place where animals or pets are given medical or
surgical treatment and the boarding of animals is limited to short-term care
incidental to the hospital use.
         AUTOMOBILE REPAIR - MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or
reconditioning of engines, motor vehicles, tractors or trailers, including body
work, frame work, welding and major painting surface.
         AUTOMOBILE REPAIR - MINOR The replacement of any part or repair of any
part which does not require the removal of the engine head or pan, engine
transmission or differential; incidental body and fender work, minor painting
and upholstering service when the service above the stated is applied to
passenger automobiles and trucks, not in excess of 7,000 pounds gross vehicle
weight.
         COMMERCIAL KENNELS. Any place where four or more of any type of
domestic pets, over four months of age, are boarded, bred, trained or offered
for sale.
         COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE. Licensed commercial
wireless telecommunications service includes cellular, personal communications
services (PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized
mobilized radio (ESMR), paging and similar services that are marketed to the
general public.
         CONTRACTORS’ OFFICES AND YARDS. An area where vehicles, equipment and/
or construction materials and supplies commonly used by building, excavation,
roadway construction and similar contractors are stored or serviced.
         GARDEN CENTER. A place of business where retail and wholesale products
and produce are sold to the retail consumer. These centers, which may include a
nursery and/or greenhouses, import most of the items sold. These items may
include plants, handicrafts, nursery products and stock, landscaping materials,
fertilizers, potting soil, hardware, lawn and garden power equipment and
machinery, hoes, rakes, shovels and other garden tools and utensils, which may
be conducted within a building or without.
         LABORATORY, MEDICAL OR DENTAL. An establishment primarily engaged in
providing professional analytic or diagnostic services to the medical
profession, or to the patient, on direction of physician; or an establishment
primarily engaged in making dentures, artificial teeth and orthodontic
appliances to order for the dental profession.
         MANUFACTURING. Manufacturing, processing, packaging or assembly of
products and also breweries, cement production, stone cutting, brick, glass,
batteries (wet cell), ceramic products, mill working, metal polishing and
platting, paint (pigment manufacturing), rubber products, plastics, meat
packing, flour, feed grain milling, milling, food and agricultural products,
plastics, coal, tar, distillation of bones, sawmill, lime, gypsum, plaster of
paris, glue, size, cloth and similar use.
         MANUFACTURING - LIGHT. Fabrication, processing or assembly employing
only electric or other substantially noiseless and inoffensive power sources,
utilizing hand labor or quiet machinery, and processes, and free from
neighborhood disturbing agents, such as odors, gas, fumes, smoke, cinders,
flashing or excessively bright lights, refuse matter, electromagnetic
radiation, heat or vibration. Such uses include, but are not limited to, the
following: lumberyard, machine shops, products assembly, sheet metal shops,
plastics, electronics, signs and displays, printing publishing, fabricated
metal parts, appliances, clothing, textiles and used auto parts.
         MINISTORAGE. An enclosed storage facility containing multiple
individual units used solely for the storage of personal property. These units
are intended to be leased or rented to private individuals. This facility is
not intended to be used for commercial or industrial storage, nor shall the
storage of flammable liquids or other hazardous materials be permitted.
         OPEN SALES or STORAGE LOT. Any land used or occupied for the purpose
of displaying of goods, parts, products or fuel for sale, rent, lease, trade or
storage, where such goods are not enclosed within a building and under the open
sky prior to sale or use.
         POLE BUILDING. A structure built without perimeter foundations, having
solid wood, built-up wood or steel columns which either rest on concrete
caissons or are direct-buried in the earth with a footing pad, having a roof
system of wood or steel engineered trusses, and having exterior roofs or walls
of corrugated steel or other architectural metals. Metal engineered buildings
with full perimeter foundations are not included in this definition.
         PROFESSIONAL AND BUSINESS OFFICE AND SERVICES. A building in which
professional and management duties and services are carried out, including
psychiatrists and psychologists’ offices; architectural, engineering, planning,
legal offices, and photographic studios and businesses of a nonretail nature
and clerical services and duties are carried out, including corporate banks,
credit unions, insurance and real estate offices.
         PUBLIC BUILDINGS. Buildings or structures owned and operated by the
city.
         PUBLIC PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS. Includes all uses such as tennis courts,
ballfield, picnic areas and the like that are commonly provided for the public
at parks, playgrounds, community centers and other sites, owned and operated by
a unit of government for the purpose of providing recreation.
         PUBLIC UTILITY STRUCTURES. Persons, corporations or governments
supplying gas, electric, transportation, water, sewer or land line telephone
service to the general public. For the purpose of this chapter, COMMERCIAL
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES shall not be considered a public utility
use and is defined separately.
         RESEARCH/DESIGN FACILITIES. Medical, chemical, electrical,
metallurgical or other scientific research and quality control, conducted in
accordance with the provisions of the zoning ordinance.
         TRUCK TERMINAL. Any use, area or building where cargo, trucks, truck
parts, loading equipment and the like, is stored and/or where trucks load and
unload on a regular basis.
         WAREHOUSING. The commercial storage of merchandise and personal
property.
         WHOLESALE BUSINESS. Establishments or places of business primarily
engaged in selling merchandise to retailers; to industrial, commercial,
institutional or professional business users, or to other wholesalers; or
acting as agents or brokers and buying merchandise for, or selling merchandise
to, individuals or companies.
      (3)   Special requirements. All applications for building permits (in the
case of new construction or expansion) or certificates of occupancy (in the
case of existing facilities) for improvements within the OI District shall be
subject to submission of complete building plans, including landscape designs
to the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall review and approve
the plans before a building permit and certificate of occupancy may be issued.
The landscape design must identify and size all plants and screenings. Within
60 days of submission of such plans and designs, the Planning Commission shall
recommend approval or disapproval of such plans and designs to the City
Council, which shall make the final determination as to approval or
disapproval.
      (4)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Animal hospital.
         (b)   Automobile repair - minor.
         (c)   Contractors’ offices and yards.
         (d)   Garden center.
         (e)   Manufacturing.
         (f)   Manufacturing - light.
         (g)   Ministorage.
         (h)   Professional and business office and services.
         (i)   Public buildings and facilities.
         (j)   Public parks and playgrounds.
         (k)   Warehousing.
      (5)   Permitted accessory uses.
         (a)   Accessory structures.
         (b)   Fences.
         (c)   Landscaping and decorative features.
         (d)   Off-street loading.
         (e)   Off-street parking.
         (f)   Retail sales of products manufactured on the site shall be
allowed as an accessory use. A maximum of 20% of the floor area of the total
building area. Parking as required for retail uses shall be provided in
addition to that required for the principal use. If excessive on-street parking
of vehicles occurs, the sales shall cease or be reduced to the level that off-
street parking can accommodate.
         (g)   Signage.
         (h)   Temporary buildings located for the purpose of construction on
the premises for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such
construction.
      (6)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Automobile repair - major.
         (b)   Commercial kennels.
         (c)   Commercial wireless telecommunication service.
         (d)   Daycare facilities for 12 or more persons.
         (e)   Laboratory, medical or dental.
         (f)   Multiple parcels, tenants, buildings, provided that the uses are
specified as permitted and conditional uses in the district.
         (g)   Open sales or storage lot.
         (h)   Public utility structures.
         (i)   Research/design facilities.
         (j)   Truck terminal.
         (k)   Wholesale business.
      (7)   Prohibited uses.  
         (a)   Whenever a use is not specifically allowed or specifically
prohibited, the use shall be considered prohibited, unless the Zoning
Administrator determines the proposed use is very similar to an allowed use. If
the use is found to be very similar to an allowed use, the proposed use shall
be allowed.
         (b)   Any business or industry that creates excessive odor, noise, air
or an environmental pollution problem shall be prohibited.
      (8)   Minimum lot requirements and setbacks.
         (a)   Buildings and structures constructed after December 30, 2010
shall meet the following requirements:
            1.   Minimum lot area: 10,000 square feet.
            2.   Minimum lot frontage: 70 feet.
            3.   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet.
            4.   Maximum lot coverage: 80%.
            5.   Maximum height: 40 feet.
            6.   Minimum front setback: 25 feet.
            7.   Minimum rear setback: 15 feet.
            8.   Minimum side yard setback: 15 feet.
         (b)   Buildings and structures existing at the time of December 30,
2010 shall meet the following requirements:
            1.   Minimum lot area: 6,000 square feet.
            2.   Minimum lot frontage: 60 feet.
            3.   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet.
            4.   Maximum lot coverage: 90%.
            5.   Maximum height: 40 feet.
            6.   Minimum front setback: 15 feet.
            7.   Minimum rear setback: 15 feet.
            8.   Minimum side yard setback: five feet.
         (c)   Buildings and structures existing at the time of December 30,
2010 may be expanded according to the following requirements:
            1.   Minimum front setback: 25 feet.
            2.   Minimum rear setback: 15 feet.
            3.   Minimum side yard setback: 15 feet.
      (9)   Other standards.
         (a)   Landscaping. See §
153.062, as amended.
         (b)   Building design and construction materials. In addition to other
restrictions of this section and any other chapter, all buildings and
structures within the OI District shall be designed to be compatible with
surrounding uses in terms of structure and appearance. Pole buildings are
permitted.
         (c)   Parking requirements. See §
153.077, as amended.
         (d)   Driveway restrictions. Each lot within the OI District may have
one driveway access, except corner lots may have two driveway accesses. In
special situations, as determined by the Planning Commission and City Council,
more than one driveway access may be permitted.
         (e)   Loading area requirements. See §
153.078, as amended.
         (f)   Outside storage requirements. See §§
153.064 and
153.067, as amended.
         (g)   Performance standards. Performance standards as to noise, odor,
glare, exterior lighting, smoke, fire and safety hazards, water supply, waste
disposal and performance testing are found throughout
Chapter 153.
   (P)   C-I Commercial-Industrial District.
      (1)   Purpose. The C-I District accommodates both commercial and
industrial uses that strengthen local employment opportunities and the overall
tax base of the city. Businesses in this district are typically dependent on
being located in close proximity to a major roadway for high traffic visibility
and easy access. Higher quality building materials and design standards provide
for an overall positive visual appearance in this district. Furthermore, this
district is intended to encourage the development of commercial and industrial
uses which are clean, quiet, and free of hazardous or objectionable elements
such as noise, odor, dust, smoke, glare, or other pollutants.
      (2)   Definitions.
         ANIMAL HOSPITAL. A place where animals or pets are given medical or
surgical treatment and the boarding of animals is limited to short-term care
incidental to the hospital use.
         AUTOMOBILE REPAIR - MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or
reconditioning of engines, motor vehicles, tractor, or trailers, including body
work, frame work, welding, and major painting surface.
         AUTOMOBILE REPAIR - MINOR. The replacement of any part or repair of
any part which does not require the removal of the engine head or pan, engine
transmission or differential; incidental body and fender work, minor painting
and upholstering service when the service above stated is applied to passenger
automobiles and trucks, not in excess of 7,000 pounds gross vehicle weight.
         AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A retail place of business engaged
primarily in the sale of motor vehicle sales, but also may be engaged in
supplying goods and services generally required in the operation and
maintenance of motor vehicles. These may include sale of petroleum products,
sale and servicing of tires, batteries, automotive accessories and replacement
items, washing and lubrication services, and the performance of automotive
maintenance and repair.
         CLINIC. A building in which a group of physicians, dentists, and/or
allied professional assistants are associated for carrying on their profession.
The CLINIC may include a dental or medical laboratory, but shall not include
in-patient care or operating rooms for major surgery.
         COMMERCIAL CAR WASHES. A principal, accessory building, or part of a
principal building equipped with mechanical equipment or conveyor system and
other equipment and facilities for washing automobiles.
         CONVENIENCE FACILITY. An establishment where the principal use is the
sale of gasoline or any other automobile engine fuel (stored only in
underground tanks), kerosene, motor oil, lubricants, grease or minor
accessories, directly to the public on the premises. In addition, household and
convenience items, food or other miscellaneous retail goods commonly associated
with the same also may be sold.
         COMMERCIAL KENNELS. Any place where four or more of any type of
domestic pets, over four months of age, are boarded, bred, trained, or offered
for sale.
         DAYCARE CENTERS, LICENSED. Any facility, public or private, which for
gain or otherwise regularly provides one or more persons with care, training,
supervision, habilitation, rehabilitation, or development guidance on a regular
basis, for periods of less than 24 hours per day, in a place other than the
client’s own home. LICENSED DAY CARE FACILITIES include but are not limited to
family day care homes, group family day care homes, day care centers, day
nurseries, nursery schools, development achievement centers, and adult daycare
centers.
         DRIVE-THROUGH. Any restaurant, financial institution, product or
service vending enterprise where business is transacted through a window or
other mechanical device with a patron who is in a vehicle.
         FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS. A commercial banking establishment or savings
and loan association chartered by the State of Minnesota or the United States.
         GARDEN CENTER. A place of business where retail and wholesale products
and produce are sold to the retail consumer. These centers, which may include a
nursery and/or greenhouses, import most of the items sold. These items may
include plants, handicrafts, nursery products and stock, landscaping materials,
fertilizers, potting soil, hardware, lawn and garden power equipment and
machinery, hoes, rakes, shovels, and other garden tools and utensils.
         HEALTH AND RECREATIONAL CLUBS. A building with the primary purpose of
offering one or more facilities for instruction, training, encouragement, or
assistance in physical fitness, in return for the payment of a fee entitling
the member to the use of the facilities.
         HOTEL. A building containing guest rooms in which lodging is provided
with or without meals for compensation and which is open to transient or
permanent guests or both, and where no provision is made for cooking in any
guest room, and which ingress and egress to and from all rooms is made through
inside lobby or office supervised by a person in charge.
         LABORATORY, MEDICAL OR DENTAL. An establishment primarily engaged in
providing professional analytic or diagnostic services to the medical
profession, or to the patient, on direction of physician; or an establishment
primarily engaged in making dentures, artificial teeth, and orthodontic
appliances to order for the dental profession.
         MANUFACTURING. Manufacturing, processing, packaging, or assembly of
products and also breweries, cement production, stone cutting, brick, glass,
batteries (wet cell), ceramic products, mill working, metal polishing and
platting, paint (pigment manufacturing), rubber products, plastics, meat
packing, flour, feed grain milling, milling, food and agricultural products,
plastics, coal, tar, distillation of bones, sawmill, lime, gypsum, plaster of
paris, glue, size, cloth, and similar use.
         MANUFACTURING-LIGHT. Fabrication, processing, or assembly employing
only electric or other substantially noiseless and inoffensive power sources,
utilizing hand labor or quiet machinery, and processes, and free from
neighborhood disturbing agents, such as odors, gas, fumes, smoke, cinders,
flashing or excessively bright lights, refuse matter, electromagnetic
radiation, heat or vibration. Such
uses include, but are not limited to, the following: lumberyard, machine shops,
products assembly, sheet metal shops, plastics, electronics, signs and
displays, printing publishing, fabricated metal parts, appliances, clothing,
textiles, and used auto parts.
         MINISTORAGE. An enclosed storage facility containing multiple
individual units used solely for the storage of personal property. These units
are intended to be leased or rented to private individuals. This facility is
not intended to be used for commercial or industrial storage, nor shall the
storage of flammable liquids or other hazardous materials be permitted.
         MOTELS. An establishment consisting of a group of attached or detached
living or sleeping accommodations with bathroom, located on a single zoning lot
and designed for use by transient automobile tourists, and furnishing customary
hotel services.
         OFF-SALE. Retail sale in the original package of any alcoholic
beverages, intoxicating liquor, 3.2% malt liquor or other items, as part of a
commercial transaction form the municipal liquor store for consumption away
from the dispensary.
         ON-SALES. A building with facilities for serving any alcoholic
beverages, intoxicating liquor, 3.2% malt liquor or other items and short order
foods.
         OPEN SALES LOT. Any land used or occupied for the purpose of
displaying of goods for sale, rent, lease, or trade, where such goods are not
enclosed within a building and under the open sky prior to sale.
         OPEN SALES or STORAGE LOT. Any land used or occupied for the purpose
of displaying of goods, parts, products, or fuel for sale, rent, lease, trade,
or storage, where such goods are not enclosed within a building and under the
open sky prior to sale or use.
         PHARMACY. Retail sale of any pharmaceuticals or other similar items
wherein the merchandise is exhibited or sold.
         PLACES OF WORSHIP. A church, synagogue, temple, mosque, or other
facility that is used for worship by persons of similar beliefs, or a special
purpose building that is designed or particularly adapted for the primary use
of conducting on a regular basis, religious services and  associated accessory
uses by a religious congregation and which building together with its accessory
buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized
to sustain public worship.
         PROFESSIONAL AND BUSINESS OFFICE AND SERVICES. A building in which
professional and management duties and services are carried out, including
psychiatrists and psychologists’ offices; architectural, engineering, planning,
legal offices, and photographic studios and businesses of a nonretail nature
and clerical services and duties are carried out, including, corporate banks,
credit unions, insurance and real estate offices.
         PUBLIC BUILDINGS. Buildings or structures owned and operated by the
city.
         PUBLIC PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS. Includes all uses such as tennis courts,
ballfield, picnic areas, and the like that are commonly provided for the public
at parks, playgrounds, community centers and other sites, owned and operated by
a unit of government for the purpose of providing recreation.
         PUBLIC UTILITY STRUCTURES. Persons, corporations or governments
supplying gas, electric, transportation, water, sewer, or land line telephone
service to the general public. For the purpose of this chapter, “Commercial
Wireless Telecommunication Services” shall not be considered a public utility
use and is defined separately.
         RECREATIONAL, COMMERCIAL. Includes all uses such as bowling alleys,
driving ranges, mini-golf courses, movie theaters that are privately owned and
operated with the intention of earning a profit by providing entertainment for
the public.
         RESEARCH/DESIGN FACILITIES. Medical, chemical, electrical,
metallurgical, or other scientific research and quality control, conducted in
accordance with the provisions of the zoning ordinance.
         RESTAURANTS, FAST FOOD. An establishment whose principal business is
the sale of food and/or beverages in a ready-to-consume state for consumption:
(1) within restaurant building; (2) within a motor vehicle parked on the
premises; or (3) off the premises as carry-out orders; and whose principal
method of operation includes the following characteristics: (a) food and/or
beverages are usually served in edible containers or in paper, plastic or other
disposable containers; (b) the customer is not served food at his or her table
by an employee, but receives it at a counter, window, or similar facility and
carries it to another location on or off the premises for consumption.
         RESTAURANTS, STANDARD. An establishment whose principal business is
the sale of food and/or beverages to customers in a ready-to-consume state, and
whose principal method of operation includes one or both of the following
characteristics: (1) customers, normally provided with an individual menu, are
served their foods and beverages by a restaurant employee at the same table or
counter at which food and beverages are consumed; (2) a cafeteria-type
operation where food and beverages generally are consumed within the restaurant
building.
         RETAIL SHOPS AND SERVICES. Stores and shops selling personal services
or goods for final consumption or the provision of services to the general
public that produce minimal off-site impacts.
         WAREHOUSING. Warehousing is the commercial storage of merchandise and
personal property.
         WHOLESALE BUSINESS. Establishments or places of business primarily
engaged in selling merchandise to retailers; to industrial, commercial,
institutional, or professional business users, or to other wholesalers; or
acting as agents or brokers and buying merchandise for, or selling merchandise
to, individuals or companies.
      (3)   Special requirements. Approval of building permits (in the case of
new construction) or expansion of certificates of occupancy (in the case of
existing facilities) for improvements within the C-I District shall require
site plan review by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall
recommend approval or disapproval of such plans and designs to the City
Council, which shall make a final determination as to approval or disapproval.
      (4)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Animal hospital.
         (b)   Automobile repair: minor.
         (c)   Automobile service station.
         (d)   Clinic.
         (e)   Financial institutions.
         (f)   Garden center.
         (g)   Health and recreational clubs.
         (h)   Laboratory, medical and dental.
         (i)   Off-sales.
         (j)   On-sales.
         (k)   Manufacturing: light.
         (l)   Ministorage.
         (m)   Pharmacy excluding drive-through facilities.
         (n)   Places of worship.
         (o)   Professional and business office and services.
         (p)   Public buildings and facilities.
         (q)   Pubic parks and playgrounds.
         (r)   Public utility structures.
         (s)   Recreation, commercial.
         (t)   Research/design facilities.
         (u)   Restaurants, fast food, excluding drive-through facilities.
         (v)   Restaurants, standard, excluding drive-through facilities.
         (w)   Retail shops and services.
         (x)   Warehousing.
         (y)   Wholesale business.
      (5)   Permitted accessory uses.
         (a)   Accessory structures, private garages.
         (b)   Fences.
         (c)   Landscaping and decorative features.
         (d)   Off-street loading.
         (e)   Off-street parking.
         (f)   Signage.
         (g)   Temporary buildings located for the purpose of construction on
the premises for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such
construction.
         (h)   Temporary outdoor sales.
      (6)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Agricultural uses limited to the raising of crops and forestry.
         (b)   Automobile repair: major.
         (c)   Commercial car washes.
         (d)   Commercial kennels.
         (e)   Convenience facility.
         (f)   Day care centers, licensed.
         (g)   Fast food restaurants with a drive-through.
         (h)   Financial institutions with drive-through including automated
kiosks.
         (i)   Hotel and motels.
         (j)   Manufacturing.
         (k)   Multi-parcels, tenants, buildings provided that the uses are
specified as permitted or
conditional uses in the C-I District.
         (l)   Open sales or storage lot.
         (m)   Outdoor recreational areas.
         (n)   Outdoor seating areas for accessory to permitted or conditional
uses in the C-I District.
         (o)   Pharmacy with drive-through.
         (p)   Public utility structure that is intended for human occupation,
occupies an area of more than 500 square feet; or does not exceed the height of
the highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to peak height of
17 feet.
      (7)   Prohibited uses.
         (a)   Acid manufacturing.
         (b)   Asphalt plants.
         (c)   Creosote treatment or manufacture.
         (d)   Distillation processes.
         (e)   Junkyards.
         (f)   Livestock feeding yards, slaughterhouse, or processing plant.
         (g)   Manufacture of explosives.
         (h)   Mining operations.
         (i)   Permanent or temporary storage of hazardous waste as a principal
use.
         (j)   Petroleum or ethanol refineries.
         (k)   Rendering plants.
         (l)   Sanitary landfills.
         (m)   Sludge disposal.
         (n)   Any business or industry that crates an excessive odor, noise,
air, or environmental pollution problem.
      (8)   Minimum lot requirements and setbacks.
         (a)   Minimum lot area: 20,000 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width/lot frontage: 100 feet.
         (c)   Minimum lot depth: 200 feet.
         (d)   Maximum lot coverage: 75%.
         (e)   Maximum height: 40 feet.
         (f)   Minimum front setback: 35 feet.
         (g)   Minimum rear setback: 25 feet.
         (h)   Minimum rear setback: abutting arterial roadways: 40 feet.
         (i)   Minimum rear setback: abutting residential districts: 40 feet.
         (j)   Minimum side yard setback: 20 feet.
         (k)   Minimum side yard setback - corner lot: 35 feet
      (9)   Other standards. Building design and construction materials. In
addition to other restrictions of this city code, any building or structure
within the C-I District shall meet the following standards:
         (a)   All buildings shall be designed to be compatible with
surrounding uses.
         (b)   All exterior wall surfaces shall consist of one or more of the
following:
            1.   Brick, brick veneer, or products of similar quality and
bricklike appearance.
            2.   Stone, stone veneer, or products of similar quality and stone-
like appearance.
            3.   Integral color specialty architectural concrete block, such as
textured, burnished block, ground block, split (rock) faced block, or other
concrete/masonry products of similar quality and appearance.
            4.   Integral color architecturally precast concrete panels having
exposed aggregate, light sandblast, acid etch, form linter, tooled, natural
stone veneer, brick face and/or cast stone finish.
            5.   Glass curtain wall.
            6.   Copper panel.
            7.   Stucco.
            8.   EIFS (Exterior Insulated and Finish System).
            9.   Other exterior wall products/materials of similar quality and
appearance as those materials previously listed (above), as determined by the
Planning Commission and City Building Inspector.
         (c)   Exterior metal wall surfaces. Metal siding/panels are prohibited
on all exterior wall surfaces, except for the following:
            1.   Buildings over 10,000 square feet in area size (at-grade floor
area) may incorporate up to 25% prefinished metal siding on exterior side
walls. Metal siding may not be used on exterior walls along collector and/or
arterial roadways. No unpainted, unfinished, or galvanized metal shall be
permitted.
            2.   The Planning Commission may consider permitting a minimal
amount of accessory design features covered with a metal surface, such as
awnings or other decorative items, if compatible with the overall design of the
building from an aesthetic and architectural standpoint.
         (d)   All principal buildings and accessory structures shall have a
permanent hard surface floor.
         (e)   All subsequent additions and outbuildings constructed after the
erection of an original building construction shall be designed in a manner
conforming with the original architectural design and appearance.
         (f)   All exterior trash enclosures or other accessory structures
shall be constructed of the same materials and colors as the principal
building. The height of these structures shall not exceed that of the principal
structure.
         (g)   All mechanical equipment, whether roof mounted or ground
mounted, shall be completely screened from the ground-level view of adjacent
properties and public road.
      (10)   Landscaping requirements. All areas in the C-I District not
covered by buildings, driveways, and paved parking lots shall be seeded,
sodded, or covered by ground covered by ground cover deemed acceptable by the
Planning Commission. Installation of this landscaping during periods of frost,
snow, or drought may be cause for the Planning Commission to require a letter
of credit or escrow account. The city may require the screening or fencing of
any side or rear yard facing a residential district or major roadway.
      (11)   Parking requirements. Parking requirements given in §
153.077 are adopted in their entirety as though repeated verbatim in this
section, with the following additional requirements:
         (a)   Driveway restrictions. Each business within the C-I District may
have one driveway. At the discretion of the Planning Commission, more than one
driveway may be permitted or required. Consideration of multiple driveways,
turn lanes and appropriate right-of-ways shall be addressed by the Planning
Commission during the overall site plan review prior to issuing a building
permit.
         (b)   Loading area requirements. All loading areas in the district
shall be on the side or in the rear of the lot and shall be no less than ten
feet from abutting residential areas.
      (12)   Signage requirements. Requirements given in §
153.079 are adopted in their entirety as though repeated verbatim in this
section.
      (13)   Storage requirements. All outside storage shall be screened from
view by dense vegetation, 90% opaque screening/fencing, or earthen berm. All
waste containers shall be screened from the view by 90% opaque screening and
kept in good repair. Chain link fencing with plastic inserts is prohibited.
      (14)   Performance standards. Performance standards as to noise, odor,
glare, exterior lighting, smoke, fire and safety hazards, water supply, waste
disposal and performance testing are found throughout Chapter 153. The
following rules shall apply to all uses in this district:
         (a)   All uses and activities shall be inside buildings, with no
outside storage or activity allowed, unless a conditional use permit is
granted.
         (b)   There shall be no noise carrying beyond a lot upon which a
business is located, except for normal automobile and pedestrian activity.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2006-191, passed 3-30-2006; Am. Ord. 2006-198,
passed 6-26-2006; Am. Ord. 2006-203, passed 12-14-2006; Am. Ord. 2006-206,
passed 12-14-2006; Am. Ord. 2007-207, passed 1-11-2007; Am. Ord. 2007-209,
passed 1-25-2007; Am. Ord. 2008-221, passed 6-28-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-231,
passed 7-30-2009; Am. Ord. 2010-239, passed 12-30-2010; Am. Ord. 2011-244,
passed 6-30-2011; Am. Ord. 2014-259, passed 11-13-2014; Am. Ord. 2015-265,
passed 4-30-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-269, passed 6-9-2016; Am. Ord. 2017-281, passed
11-9-2017; Am. Ord. 2018-287, passed 5-10-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-289, passed 7-26-
2018; Am. Ord. 2018-290, passed 11-29-2018; Am. Ord. 2023-319, passed 8-31-
2023)
§ 153.041 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The location and boundaries of the districts established by this
chapter are set forth on the official zoning map which is hereby incorporated
as part of this chapter and which is on file with the Clerk/Administrator.
   (B)   District boundary lines recorded on the city zoning map are intended
to follow lot lines, the center lines of streets or alleys, the center line of
streets or alleys projected, the center of water courses or the corporate limit
lines as they exist at the time of the enactment of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to maintain
and amend the zoning map. The Zoning Administrator shall make, or cause to have
made, any corrections or amendments to the map after all of the procedures
outlined in this chapter for the making of revisions or amendments shall have
been followed by the Planning Commission and City Council.
   (D)   Amendments to the zoning map shall be recorded on the map within 15
days after adoption by the City Council. The copy of the official zoning map
shall be kept on file in the Clerk/Administrator's office and shall be
available for public inspection at all times during regular office hours.
   (E)   In the event that the official zoning map becomes damaged, is
destroyed, becomes lost or is difficult to interpret because of the nature or
number of changes and additions, the City Council may, by ordinance, adopt a
new official zoning map. The new official zoning map may correct drafting or
other errors or omissions in the principal zoning map, but no corrections shall
have the effect of amending the original zoning code or any subsequent
amendment thereof. The new official zoning map shall be identified by the
signature of the Mayor, attested by the Clerk/Administrator, and under the
following words: “This is to certify that this official Zoning Map supersedes
and replaces the official Zoning Map.”
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.042 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following essential services are permitted in any district:
   (A)   The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance, by public
utilities, municipal or other governmental agencies of systems, including gas,
electrical, steam, or water transmission or distribution systems, collection,
communication, supply or disposal systems;
   (B)   Elevated and underground water storage tanks;
   (C)   Poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conductance, or cables,
fire alarm boxes, traffic signals, hydrants; and
   (D)   Any other similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith
which is necessary for the furnishing of adequate service of public utilities
or municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public health or safety
or general welfare, but not including buildings.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 153.055 INTENT.
   The following performance standards are designed to encourage a high
standard of development by providing assurance that neighboring land uses will
be compatible. These standards are also designed to eliminate blight. All
future development in all districts shall be required to meet these standards.
These standards shall also apply to existing developments where stated.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.056 STORAGE AND DISPOSAL OF CHEMICALS.
   All commercial and industrial uses associated with the bulk storage of oil,
gasoline, liquid fertilizer or other hazardous materials shall require a
conditional use permit and compliance with all state and local life safety
agency regulations in order that the City Council may have assurance that fire,
explosion, or water or soil contamination hazards are not present that would be
detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare. All disposal operations
shall be in compliance with appropriate state, county and federal regulations.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.057 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Nuisances prohibited. No noise, odors, vibration, smoke, air
pollution, liquid or solid wastes, heat, glare, dust or other adverse
influences shall be permitted that will in any way have an objectionable effect
upon adjacent or nearby property.
   (B)   Noise.  
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued, any noise exceeding the standards established on M.S. Ch. 7030,
subd. 0040, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Sounds emanating from the operation of motor vehicles on public
highways, aircraft, outdoor implements, such as power lawnmowers, snowblowers,
power hedge clippers, and power saws, pile drivers or jackhammers and other
construction equipment, are exempt from the sound level but not time
restriction provisions of this section. Sounds emanating from lawful and proper
activities at school grounds, playgrounds, parks or places where athletic
contests take place, are exempt from the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Emission of smoke or particulate matter. Any use established, enlarged
or remodeled after the effective date of this chapter shall be so operated as
to meet the minimum requirements for ambient air quality standards, as
established in M.S. Ch. 7009, as it may be amended from time to time, unless a
permit has been secured from the city by the owner or operator of the facility
or use.
   (D)   Glare and heat. Any use producing intense heat or light transmission
shall be performed with the necessary shielding to prevent heat or light from
being detectable at the lot line of the site on which the use is located.
   (E)   Toxic and noxious matter. No use shall discharge across the boundaries
of the lot where it is located, toxic, odorous or noxious matter in such
concentrations as to be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety,
comfort or welfare, or cause appreciable injury or damage to property or
business.
   (F)   Explosives. Any use requiring the storage, use, or manufacture of
products which could decompose by detonation shall be located not less than 400
feet from any residence. This section shall not apply to the storage or usage
of liquefied petroleum or natural gas for normal residential or business
purposes.
   (G)   Radiation emission. All activities that emit radioactivity shall
comply with the minimum requirements of the MPCA.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.058 HEIGHT REGULATIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   Height regulations as set forth elsewhere in this chapter may be increased
with no limitation when applied to the following, provided a conditional use
permit is issued to increase height:
   (A)   Church domes, spires, belfries and roof ridges;
   (B)   School buildings;
   (C)   Chimneys or smokestacks; and
   (D)   Fire towers, water towers or other public facilities.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.059 PRIVATE SEWERS AND WATER SYSTEMS STANDARDS.
   (A)   Individual water systems (wells). The installation and location of an
individual well for domestic water supply shall conform to the Minnesota
Department of Health regulations, which are hereby adopted by reference.
   (B)   Private sewer systems (on-site sewage treatment systems).
      (1)   Prior to the installation or replacement of any on-site treatment
system, a property owner must apply for a permit from the city.
      (2)   The location and installation of an on-site treatment system will
conform to the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency's Standards For Sewage
Treatment, Chapter 7060 or as amended, are hereby adopted by reference.
      (3)   The connection to the city's municipal sewer system shall comply
with all ordinances relating to the use of public sewers.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.060 LAND RECLAMATION.
   (A)   Land reclamation under this subsection is the reclaiming of land by
depositing of clean fill materials so as to elevate the grade of the land.
   (B)   Clean fill material shall be defined as rock, gravel, sand, dirt, clay
or other like and similar non-decomposable material.
   (C)   Land reclamation shall be permitted in all zoning districts, on any
lot or parcel except that when 100 or more cubic yards of fill is to be
deposited on any lot or parcel, or if the storm water runoff pattern is
altered, a conditional use permit shall be required.
   (D)   In addition to whatever conditions or restrictions that may be
attached to any conditional use permit, the following data and standards shall
be included in each application:
      (1)   Site plan showing existing and proposed grade elevations and affect
of storm water drainage on adjacent areas;
      (2)   A time shall be specified by the applicant as to when, in the
applicant's best judgment, the land reclamation project will be completed;
      (3)   The granting of the conditional use permit may be based on the
consideration that peat be removed from the proposed land reclamation area
prior to any fill being deposited;
      (4)   That within 60 days after the deposit of the fill material, the
area shall be covered with a minimum of 12 inches of clean, native earth fill,
and the depth of fill shall be controlled to blend with the surrounding ground
conditions;
      (5)   That all entrances to any land reclamation project be properly
safeguarded with a barricade to prevent the general public from depositing
garbage or other refuse in the land reclamation project;
      (6)   Any and all land reclamation projects in existence at the enactment
of this chapter shall comply within 60 days after notice being served on the
recorded fee owner of the property to be used in any land reclamation project.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.061 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No land shall be developed or altered and no use shall be permitted
that results in surface water runoff causing unreasonable flooding, erosion or
deposit of minerals on adjacent properties or waterbodies. Runoff shall be
properly channeled into a storm drain, a natural water course or drainageway, a
ponding area or other public facility.
   (B)   The Building Inspector, upon inspection of any site which has created
drainage problems or could create problems with proposed new development, may
require the owner of the site or contractor to complete a grading plan.
   (C)   (1)   Upon completion of the final grading of a lot for occupancy, the
Building Inspector shall require the home builder to perform a survey of the
site documenting critical grading elevations including:
         (a)   Elevation of all lot corners;
         (b)   Elevations of proposed drainage ways in the lot identified on
the as-built grading plan;
         (c)   Final garage floor elevations;
         (d)   Final driveway grades;
         (e)   Emergency overflow elevations as they pertain to lot grading;
         (f)   Date of final as-built survey;
      (2)   The as-built survey shall completed a minimum of ten days before
the final building inspection to verify final grading prior to issuance of any
certificate of occupancy for the building and lot in question.
      (3)   In the event the final inspection is requested during seasons of
the year that do not permit grading operations, the builder shall submit a
deposit of $1,000 for the city to hold in trust until such time the final
grading and survey of the lot can be completed. In the event that additional
work is necessary to grade the lot to the design elevations, the city may use a
portion or all of that deposit to correct the final grading after the issuance
of the certificate of occupancy.
   (D)   The owner or contractor of any natural drainage improvement or
alteration may be required by the Building Inspector or Planning Commission to
obtain recommendations from the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, the
Soil Conservation District, affected Watershed District and/or City Engineer.
   (E)   On any slope in excess of 12% where in the opinion of the Building
Inspector, the natural drainage pattern may be disturbed or altered, the
Building Inspector may require the applicant to submit both a grading plan and
a soils conservation plan prior to applying for a building permit.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2005-173, passed 6-9-2005)
§ 153.062 LANDSCAPING AND TURF ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   General landscaping. All developed, improved, or built upon lots or
parcels shall be landscaped. Landscaping on a lot shall consist of a final
grade, and a soil retention cover such as sod, seed, and mulch, or plantings to
protect the soil and aesthetic values on the lot and adjacent property.
Landscaping shall be provided and maintained in all developed districts except
where permitted impervious surface exists.
   (B)   Right-of-way and easement areas.
      (1)   Boulevard. In all districts, all developed uses shall provide soil
retention in the boulevard area, from street edge or back-of-curb to the road
right-of-way/property line. This area shall be kept clear of all structures and
exterior storage. It is the responsibility of the property owner to mow and
maintain the boulevard area.
      (2)   Prohibited planting location. No trees or large shrubs shall be
allowed within any drainage or utility easement, road right-of-way/boulevard
area, or intersection sight visibility triangle without first obtaining
approval from the City Administrator, or his/her designee.
   (C)   As-built grading survey.
      (1)   An as-built grading survey is a survey that shall be submitted by
the home builder to the city after the grading is completed on a residential
lot. All as-built grading surveys and grading work shall comply with the City's
Survey & Grading Policy for New Residential Home Construction. As-built grading
surveys are reviewed to ensure that: 1) the city's minimum grading requirements
are met; and 2) the property conforms to the approved grading plan and adjacent
properties. The as-built grading survey must be approved before any further
work may be done on the property. Sod, irrigation systems, and landscape
materials shall not be installed until the as-built grading survey is approved
by the city.
      (2)   The city shall not be held liable for any drainage issues or
complications relating to excavation, filling, grading work, and encroachments
as it relates to the construction of a building under this section.
   (D)   Trees.
      (1)   Tree and woodland preservation. The tree planting requirements of
this section shall be in addition to, and shall not count towards, any tree
replacement that is required by the tree and woodland preservation section of
the Lonsdale City Code.
      (2)   Existing trees. Existing significant trees may count towards the
required number of trees provided the size and type are consistent with the
requirements of this section. For the purpose of this section, a significant
tree shall be any permitted and healthy tree that measures six inches in
diameter at four and a half feet from the ground.
      (3)   Size. All required plant materials shall meet the following minimum
size standards. For the purposes of determining tree trunk size, the diameter
shall be measured at four and a half feet above the ground level.
         (a)   A deciduous tree shall be a minimum of two and a half inches in
diameter.
         (b)   A coniferous tree shall be a minimum of six feet in height.
      (4)   Ornamental trees. Each two omamental trees may fulfill the
requirement of one tree as required by this section.
      (5)   Single-family residential. Construction of new attached and
detached single-family units/homes shall be required to meet the following
regulations regarding trees:
         (a)   Amount. The planting of two trees per dwelling unit.
         (b)   Type. At least one of the two trees shall be deciduous. See §
53.03 for a list of allowable and prohibited tree species.
         (c)   Location. At least one tree shall be planted within the front
yard.
      (6)   Multi-family residential & non-residential. Construction of new
multi-family residential and non-residential uses shall be required to meet the
following regulations regarding trees:
         (a)   Amount. The planting of trees shall contain at a minimum the
greater of:
            1.   One tree per 1,000 square feet of gross building floor area;
or
            2.   One tree per 50 lineal feet of site perimeter.
         (b)   Variety. The complement of trees fulfilling the requirements of
this section shall be not less than 25% deciduous and not less than 25%
coniferous. Exception, the City Administrator, or his/her designee, may allow a
deviation in variety for purposes of safety or site constraints.
         (c)   Central Business District. The full requirements of the
landscaping ordinance shall not apply to land zoned B-3, Central Business
District. Upon recommendation from the Planning Commission and/or city staff,
the City Council shall determine the extent to which it is possible for the
requirements of this chapter to apply to the parcel.
   (E)   Turf establishment.
      (1)   All residential and non-residential lots shall be sodded. Sod shall
be installed on all yard spaces of the lot and the adjacent boulevard areas up
to the street edge/back-of-curb. Exception: the City Administrator, or his/her
designee, may allow some unique lots, or a portion of, to be seeded, only if
the lot has untypical topography, woodlands, wetlands, area size, or other
distinct feature.
      (2)   Silt fence shall be maintained in compliance with the City's
Erosion Control Policy, as amended from time-to-time, throughout the
construction period until sod or city approved ground cover/vegetation is fully
established.
      (3)   (a)   The required sod must be in place before a final certificate
of occupancy will be issued. If the sod is not in place and occupancy is
requested by the builder, a temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued.
The builder/homeowner is required to install sod within 60 days after the
temporary certificate of occupancy is issued. A final certificate of occupancy
will be issued only after the sod or the turf has been fully established.
         (b)   In periods of adverse weather conditions, between October 15 and
April 30, a temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued, but the
installation of sod must be completed on or before July 1.
   (F)   Landscape escrow.
      (1)   Along with the issuance of a building permit, the city shall
collect a cash escrow specifically for required: 1) trees; 2) final grade work;
3) an as-built grading survey; 4) sod/turf establishment; and 5) erosion
control. The escrow shall be listed on the fee schedule, established by the
City Council. The escrow shall be refunded only when all the following
landscaping items are completed and approved by the city.
      (2)   Landscaping items.
         (a)   Required trees are installed.
         (b)   Final grade requirements are completed.
         (c)   An as-built grading survey has been completed and approved.
         (d)   Required sod or city approved ground cover is installed.
         (e)   Erosion control items are cleaned up and removed from the site
and adjacent properties.
      (3)   If the forementioned landscaping items are not fully completed or
approved, as determined by the City Administrator, or his/her designee, then
the city may use the escrow funds to: 1) install the proper trees; 2) grade the
site in accordance with the city approved grading plan and/or building permit
survey; 3) conduct an as-built grading survey; 4) install sod or proper ground
cover; and/or 5) cover the cost of related expenses, such as erosion control,
engineering work, legal work, and city staff time. If the costs incurred by the
city to bring the property into compliance with this section are greater than
the amount in escrow, the city may deplete the escrow fund and any remaining
amount may be assessed against the property as under M.S. § 429.021, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (G)   Violation. Violation of any provision of this chapter after being
notified in writing by first class mail of a violation of any provision of this
chapter, shall be a misdemeanor and punished as provided in §
10.99. Further, the city may pursue any civil relief available, to prevent,
restrain, correct, or abate the violation.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2006-189, passed 1-26-2006; Am. Ord. 2006-199,
passed 6-26-2006; Am. Ord. 2021-305, passed 3-25-2021)
 
§ 153.063 LOT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Any lot of record existing upon the effective date of this chapter in
a residential district, which does not meet the minimum requirements of this
chapter as to area or dimensions, are subject to the provisions of §
153.008 of this chapter.
   (B)   If in a group of contiguous created and/or platted lots under single
ownership, any individual lot that does not meet the minimum requirements of
this chapter, the individual lot cannot be considered as a separate parcel of
land for purposes of sale or development, but must be combined with adjacent
lots and/or parcels under the same ownership so that the cumulation of lots
will equal one or more parcels of land, meeting the minimum requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any lot, group of lots, or created parcels created by any means after
the effective date of this chapter, for the purpose of erecting a structure,
must be approved by the City Council. The plan for the subdivision shall be
submitted in accordance with the city's subdivision regulations.
   (D)   No more than one principal building shall be located on a lot.
   (E)   On a corner lot, both street lines shall be front lines for applying
the yard and parking requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The required front yard of a corner lot shall not contain any wall,
fence, or other structure, tree, shrub or other growth which may cause danger
to traffic on a street or public road by obscuring the view. On corner lots, in
any district, no structure or planting in excess of 30 inches above the curb
line shall be permitted within a triangle defined as follows: “Beginning at the
intersection of the project curb line of the two intersecting streets, thence
30 feet along one curb line, thence diagonally to a point 30 feet from the
point of beginning on the other curb line, thence to the point of beginning.”
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.064 SCREENING.
   (A)   Screening shall be required where:
      (1)   Any off-street parking area contains more than four parking spaces
and is adjoining a residential district; and
      (2)   Where the driveway to a parking area of more than six parking
spaces is adjoining a residential district.
   (B)   Where any business or industrial use (structure, parking or storage)
is adjacent to a property zoned residential, that business or industry shall
provide screening along the boundary of the residential property. Screening
shall also be provided where a business, parking lot or industry is across the
street from a residential zone, but not on the side of a business or industry
considered to be the front.
   (C)   The screening required in this subsection shall consist of earth
mounds, berms or ground forms; fences and walls; landscaping (plant materials)
or landscaped fixtures (such as timbers) used in combination or singularly so
as to block direct visual access to an object.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.065 TREE AND WOODLAND PRESERVATION.
   (A)   Purpose. Through the preservation, protection, maintenance, and
management of the community's existing forest resource, including, but not
limited to, individual or significant trees having ecological, cultural, and/or
historical significance, and the planting of trees to:
      (1)   Aid in the stabilization of soil by the prevention of erosion and
sedimentation;
      (2)   Reduce stormwater runoff and the costs associated therewith and
replenish groundwater supplies;
      (3)   Aid in the removal of carbon dioxide and generation of oxygen in
the atmosphere;
      (4)   Provide a buffer and screen against noise pollution;
      (5)   Provide protection against severe weather;
      (6)   Aid in the control of drainage and restoration of denuded soil
subsequent to construction or grading;
      (7)   Provide a haven for birds which in turn assist in the control of
insects;
      (8)   Provide habitat for wildlife;
      (9)   Protect and increase property values;
      (10)   Conserve and enhance the city's physical and aesthetic
environment; and
      (11)   Generally protect and enhance the quality of life and the general
welfare of the city.
   (B)   Penalties. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section or any forest management plan approved hereunder shall be guilty of an
offense punishable as a misdemeanor each day or portion thereof that the
violation continues. In addition, any and all permits and approvals extended by
the city connection with the property on which the violation occurs may be
suspended or revoked after notice and an opportunity to be heard, and the city
may also deny a certificate of occupancy or pursue injunctive relief and/or
damages. Pursuit of any one of these remedies does not waive the city's right
to pursue any or all of these remedies.
   (C)   Waiver of requirements during emergencies.  In case of emergencies
involving, but not limited to, tornadoes, windstorms, floods, freezes or other
natural disasters, the requirements of this section may be waived by the Mayor,
or in the absence of the Mayor, the acting Mayor.
   (D)   Development of technical specifications and guidelines.  The City
Arborist appointed by the City Council, shall assist the Zoning Administrator
in the development and maintenance of technical specifications and guidelines
for its use in the administration of this division. This includes, but is not
limited to, advice as to the kinds and species of trees unsuitable or
undesirable for planting, such as noxious trees, and advising as to the areas
and conditions under which suitable and desirable trees should be planted.
Acceptable replacement trees are shown on the following table:
DECIDUOUS TREES
Common Name Botanical Name
DECIDUOUS TREES
Common Name                   Botanical Name
Norway Maple                  Acer Platanoides
Cultivars                     Cleveland
Red Maple                     Acer Rubrum
Cultivars                     Northwood, Firedance
Silver Queen Maple (seedless) Acer saccharinum 'Silver Queen'
Sugar Maple                   Acer saccharum
Cultivars                     Green Mountain
River Birch                   Betula Nigra
Hackberry                     Celtis Occidentalis
Green Ash                     Fraximus pennsylvanica
Cultivars                     Kindred, Newport, Bergeson, Marshall's Seedless,
                              Patmore, Summit
Ginkgo                        Ginkgo biloba (male only)
Honeylocust                   Glenditsia tricanthos inermis
Kentucky Coffeetree           Gymnocladus dioicus
Ironwood                      Ostrya virginiana
Robusta poplar                Poplux x Robusta
Siouxland Cottonwood          poplus detoides x Siouxland
White Oak                     Quercus alba
Swamp White Oak               Quercus bicolor
Pin Oak                       Quereus palustris
Northern Red Oak              Quercus rubra
American Linden               Tilia americana
 
DECIDUOUS TREES
Common Name Botanical Name
DECIDUOUS TREES
Common Name       Botanical Name
Littleleaf Linden Tilia cordata
Cultivars         Glenleven, Greenspire
Redmond Linden    Tilia americana 'Redmond'
Yellow Birch      Betula lutea
Paper Birch       Betula alba papyrifera
Bur Oak           Quercus macrocarpa
Black Ash         Fraxinus nigra
Black Walnut      Juglans nigra
Pagoda Dogwood    Cornus altemifolia
Hawthorn          Crataegus
American Plum     Prunus Americana
Black Cherry      Prunus serotina
Northern Pin Oak  Quercus ellipsoidalis
 
CONIFEROUS TREES
Common Name Botanical Game
CONIFEROUS TREES
Common Name                      Botanical Game
Balsam Fir                       Abies balsamea
White Fir                        Abies concolor
European Larch                   Larix decidua
Black Hills Spruce               Picea glauca 'Densata'
Austrian pine                    Pinus nigra
Ponderosa Pine                   Pinus ponderosa
Norway Pine                      Pinus resinosa
Scotch Pine                      Pinus sylvestris
White Pine                       Pinus strobus
Douglas Fir                      Pseudotsuga menziesii
Canadian Hemlock                 Tsuga canadensis
Colorado Spruce                  Picea pungens
Northern and Eastern White Cedar Thuja occidentalis
 
   (E)   Submittal requirements.
      (1)   All tree preservation plans must be certified by a forester or
landscape architect or registered land surveyor retained by the applicant. The
tree preservation plan, along with associated subdivision or grading permits
plans, shall be submitted in accordance with the Lonsdale Subdivision Chapter
and Zoning Chapter, as amended, whichever is applicable. All sites shall be
staked, as depicted in the approved grading plan, and the required tree
protection fencing shall be installed at the limits of the approved grading
plan before grading is to commence. No encroachment, grading, trenching,
filing, compaction, or change in soil chemistry shall occur within the fenced
areas protecting the critical root zone of the trees to be saved.
      (2)   The tree preservation plan shall be reviewed by the city's Planning
Department to assess the best possible layout to preserve significant trees and
significant woodlands and to enhance the efforts to minimize damage to
significant trees and woodland trees. The applicant shall meet with the
Planning Department prior to submittal of the development application or prior
to application for the grading permit, whichever is sooner, to determine the
most feasible and practical placement of buildings, parking, driveways,
streets, storage, and other physical features, in order that the fewest
significant woodlands are destroyed or damaged.
      (3)   The City Council may, after notice and an opportunity to be heard,
revoke an approved forest management plan if it determines, through inspection
or otherwise, that such plan is not being followed. Upon such revocation, the
basic restrictions of this section shall apply to the affected property as if
no forest management plan had ever been approved for that property, and those
restrictions shall continue to apply unless a new forest management plan for
the property is approved at sometime in the future.
      (4)   Any request for amendment of an approved forest management plan
shall be processed and reviewed as if it were an initial application for such a
plan, unless one or more application requirements in divisions (A) and (B) of
this section are specifically waived by the City Council by a majority vote.
   (F)   Restrictions for properties not undergoing development. For purposes
of tree removal on land within the city limits not in the process of being
subdivided or developed, it shall be unlawful for any person to remove from
privately-owned land any tree six inches in diameter at breast height (DBH) or
larger in excess of the rate of 36 inches DBH per acre in any calendar year
without immediately replacing any such tree pursuant to the appropriate ratio
set forth in this section unless provided otherwise in a previously approved
forest management plan approved by the city as set forth in division (G).
   (G)   Tree and woodland preservation plan. The tree preservation plan shall
include the following information:
      (1)   The name(s), telephone number(s), and address(es) of applicants,
property owners, developers and/or builders.
      (2)   Delineation of the buildings, structures, or impervious surfaces
situated thereon or contemplated to be built thereon.
      (3)   Delineation of all areas to be graded and limits of proposed land
disturbance within the subdivision. The limits of approved site grading shall
be delineated in the field. Significant trees shall be protected by fencing
located at the perimeter of its critical root zone.
      (4)   An inventory of size, species, and location of all existing
significant trees located within 75 feet of the areas to be graded shall be
delineated in the field. Significant trees shall be protected by fencing
located at the perimeter of its critical root zone.
      (5)   Identification of all significant trees and significant woodlands
proposed to be saved, along with measures to protect significant woodlands.
These significant trees and significant woodlands shall be identified in both
graphic and tabular form.
      (6)   Identification of all significant trees and significant woodlands
which will be lost due to proposed land alterations. Significant trees shall be
considered lost as a result of:
         (a)   Grade change or land alteration, whether temporary or permanent,
of greater than one foot measured vertically, affecting 60% (as measured on a
horizontal plane) or more of the tree's root zone or the area under the tree's
root zone or the area under the tree which is at and within the drip line of
the tree's canopy;
         (b)   Utility construction (such as sewer, water, storm sewer, gas,
electric, telephone and cable TV) resulting in the cutting of 60% or more of
the tree's roots within the root zone;
         (c)   Mechanical injury to the trunk of a significant tree causing
loss of more than 40% of the back; or
         (d)   Compaction to a depth of six inches or more of 60% or more of
the surface of the soil within a significant tree's root zone, or the area
under the tree which is at and within the drip line of the tree's canopy.
      (7)   Identification of all diseased, hazardous, or nuisance trees. Prior
to any grading, all diseased and hazardous trees subject property shall be
removed from the property.
      (8)   Signature of the person(s) preparing the plan.
   (H)   Tree and woodland reforestation mitigation.
      (1)   Removal and replacement. A developer shall replace significant live
trees lost or reasonable anticipated to be lost as a result of grading,
building upon, or any other land alteration of, the land immediately or in the
future, by the developer, his agent, successor in interest, or any other person
to whom or by whom all or any part of the land may be sold, graded, built upon,
or altered by planting that number of trees (replacement trees) determined in
accordance with the following formula. If trees are removed that are six to 11
inches in diameter inches, measured at four and one-half feet above the ground,
they shall be replaced at a rate one and one-half inches for every diameter
inch removed. Trees over 11 inches in diameter inches measured at four and one-
half feet above the ground that are removed shall be replaced at a rate of two
inches for every diameter inch removed.
      (2)   Approval; restoration. No significant trees or significant
woodlands shall be removed until a tree preservation plan is approved by the
city and escrow received in accordance with the approved tree preservation
plan. If a significant tree(s) or any significant woodland that was intended to
be preserved is removed without permission of the city, or damaged so that it
is in a state of decline within one year from date of project closure as
determined by a forester or landscape architect, the applicant shall mitigate
tree loss by reforestation of appropriate areas within the development area in
accordance with the following replacement schedule. For each significant tree
removed that was intended to be preserved, two deciduous trees with a minimum
of two and one-half-inch caliper or two coniferous trees with a height of not
less than six feet must be planted.
      (3)   Required replacement; exception. The trees required to be replaced
pursuant to this section shall not be in addition to any other trees required
to be planted pursuant to any other provision of the code.
      (4)   Location of replacement trees.  Replacement trees shall be planted
in one or more of the following areas on the land; restoration areas including
steep slopes, outlots or common areas, buffer zones between different land uses
and/or activities, project entrance areas, and any other part of the land
except any thereof dedicated or conveyed to the city. If a site cannot
accommodate all the required planting, the trees may be planted on publicly-
owned or leased sites. If not desired by the city, the city may accept cash of
$100 per caliper inch, which would be placed in the Park Fund.
      (5)   Sizes and types of replacement trees.  Replacement trees must be no
less than the following sizes:
         (a)   Deciduous trees - no less than two and one-half caliper inches
except bur oak, swamp white oak, pagoda dogwood, ironwood may be one and one-
quarter caliper inches.
         (b)   Coniferous trees - no less than six feet tall.
   (I)   Time to perform.
      (1)   The applicant shall implement the tree preservation plan prior to
and during any construction. The tree protection measures of the plan shall
remain in place until all grading and construction activity is terminated, or
until a request is made to and approved by the city. The city shall have the
right to inspect the development and/or building site in order to determine
compliance with the approved tree preservation plan. The city shall determine
whether compliance with the tree preservation plan has been met.
      (2)   Replacement trees shall be planted not less than 18 months from the
date of issuance of the permit.
      (3)   Any replacement tree which is not alive or healthy one year after
the date that the last replacement tree has been planted shall be removed and a
new healthy tree of the same size and species shall be planted in place of the
removed tree. A new healthy tree of the same size and species shall be planted
in place of any replacement tree missing one year after such date. Planting
shall occur not later than the first fall or spring following such year.
   (J)   Protective measures.
      (1)   Measures to protect significant trees and significant woodlands
approved, as part of the tree preservation plan shall be included in sales
information and disseminated to potential buyers of wooded lots.
      (2)   The developer shall indemnify the city against any loss, cost or
expense, including an amount as and for reasonable attorneys' fees incurred in
enforcing the terms of this chapter.
   (K)   Tree protection.
      (1)   Trees designated for preservation shall be protected by a highly
visible fence or other temporary structure deemed acceptable by the city. The
protection area shall be defined by the projection of the tree dripline
downward to the ground. If less protection is necessary due to the proximity of
building structures or infrastructure, such reduced protection area shall
require approval by the city prior to any construction activity taking place.
      (2)   The location and means of tree protection shall require inspection
and approval by the city prior to any construction activity taking place. The
city shall also inspect the construction site during construction. The tree
protection shall remain in place until the city has conducted an inspection of
the lot and has approved the removal of the fencing.
      (3)   No equipment, chemicals, soil deposits or construction materials
shall be placed within a protective barrier.
      (4)   Any landscaping activity subsequent to the removal of the barriers
shall be accomplished with hand labor or light machinery having a gross weight
of no more than 1,000 pounds.
   (L)   Performance guarantee. Based upon the replacement trees identified
with division (I), and prior to any construction activity taking place, the
applicant shall submit a cash escrow, letter of credit, or other surety
acceptable to the city in the amount of 100% of the cost of the replacement
trees proposed for the project area. Such surety shall remain in force for two
full growing seasons following installation of the replacement trees to
guarantee survival. At the end of the two-year period or subsequent two-year
period, the city shall review the project area in coordination with the
applicant and shall make a determination to:
      (1)   Refund the appropriate performance surety; or
      (2)   Require the planting of new trees to replace the replacement trees,
which did not survive the initial or subsequent two full growing seasons or
subsequent periods until such time as the replacement trees have survived two
full growing seasons. For purposes of this section, all trees shall be alive
and in satisfactory growing condition at the end of two full growing seasons.
The growing season shall include the period May 1 through October 31. The two-
year guaranty period for plant material installed after June 1 shall commence
the following year.
   (M)   Exceptions.  The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   The removal of trees from commercial nurseries or horticultural
properties, such as tree farms, orchards, or commercial forests. This exception
shall not be interpreted to include lumber harvesting incidental to imminent
development of the land.
      (2)   The removal of trees on public rights-of-way conducted by or on
behalf of a federal, state, county, municipal, or other governmental agency in
pursuance of its lawful activities or functions in the construction or
improvement of public rights-of-way.
      (3)   The removal of trees deemed by the city to be diseased, dying, or
dead.
      (4)   The removal of any tree, which has become or threatens to become a
danger to human life or property.
      (5)   The removal of any tree by a public utility when such tree has the
reasonable potential of endangering the facilities operated by the utility.
      (6)   If no significant trees or woodlands are present on the site, a
tree preservation plan will not be required.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2006-195, passed 4-27-2006)
§ 153.066 SITE PLANS.
   (A)   All building construction for commercial, industrial or multiple-
dwellings shall be accompanied by a complete site plan, showing the proposed
use of the balance of the property. The plan shall show waste disposal, water
supply, drainage, ingress and egress, landscaping, screening, and other
supportive and pertinent data. Distances to surrounding buildings must also be
shown on the site plan. All building permits shall be issued by the Zoning
Administrator following his or her and the Building Inspector's review of the
site plan for conformity with the city's present development codes and
comprehensive plan. If the building permit application involves the approval of
a zoning amendment, variance, or conditional use permit, no building permit
shall be issued until the Planning Commission and City Council have taken
appropriate approving action.
   (B)   Preliminary plans required.
      (1)   Certificate of survey. The certificate of survey shall be drawn at
a scale of not less than one inch equals 50 feet. The certificate of survey
shall indicate all existing structures and site improvements.
      (2)   Preliminary site plan. The preliminary site plan shall be drawn at
a scale of one inch equals 50 feet. The submission may be composed of one or
more sheets and drawings and shall include the location of all proposed
buildings and their proposed uses; location of driveways and parking areas;
indicate front, rear, and side yard setbacks proposed; location of all
easements, width and purpose; location and size of existing public improvements
adjacent to the lot site, including sanitary sewer, watermain, and storm
drainage location and size of existing buildings and structures on site and
within the district of 100 feet of the site; existing zoning and land use;
location of refuse areas; location of outdoor storage areas; locations and
specifications of signs; location and type of lighting.
      (3)   Landscape plan. The landscape plan shall be prepared at a scale of
one inch equals 50 feet and shall include the following information:
         (a)   General. Name and address of developer/owner, name and address
of architect/designer, date of plan preparation, date and description of all
revisions, name of project or development, scale of plan, north point
indication.
         (b)   Site analysis. Boundary lines of property line with dimensions
based upon certified survey, name and alignment of proposed and existing
adjacent on-site streets, location of all proposed utility easements and right-
of-way, location of existing and proposed buildings, topographic contours at
two-foot intervals, location of parking areas, water bodies, proposed
sidewalks, and percent of site not covered by structures.
         (c)   Landscape data. Identification of both sodded and seeded areas
with respect to any areas indicated in square footage. Identification of types,
size, and location of plant materials, fences, walls, berms and other landscape
improvement.
         (d)   Where landscape or manmade materials are used to provide
required screening from adjacent and neighboring properties, a cross-section
shall be provided at a legible scale illustrating the prospective of the site
from the neighboring property and property line elevation.
      (4)   Grading and drainage plan. The grading and drainage plan shall be
drawn at a scale of one inch equals 50 feet and shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   Existing and proposed grades with a minimum of two-foot contour
intervals to a known sea level datum;
         (b)   Sufficient spot elevations on all proposed hard surface areas;
         (c)   Estimated runoff of the area based upon ten- and 100-year storm
events;
         (d)   Provisions to carry runoff to the nearest adequate outlet, such
as a storm drain, natural drainage way or street;
         (e)   Location of any proposed ponding areas, indicating the size and
depth of the pond and amount of acre feet of water to be stored;
         (f)   Finished floor elevations of all buildings;
         (g)   Identification of soil conditions by type and location,
including identification of the water table, and suitability of soil for
proposed development:
         (h)   Identification of any areas located within a flood hazard zone
as identified by the city's floodplain maps.
      (5)   Floor plans and elevations. All floor plans and elevations shall be
drawn to a legible scale and include the following information:
         (a)   Floor plans indicating square footage and dimensions of all
proposed rooms and areas identifying the proposed uses;
         (b)   Elevations of the proposed building.
         (c)   Preparation of plans. Site plans shall be prepared by a
registered architect, civil engineer, landscape architect, or land surveyor.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.067 EXTERIOR STORAGE.
   (A)   In all residential districts, all personal property shall be stored
within a building or be fully screened so as not to be visible from adjoining
properties and public streets, except for the following: laundry drying and
recreational equipment, home heating fuel tanks, stacked firewood, construction
and landscaping materials, and equipment currently (within a 12-month period)
being used on the premises, off-street parking of licensed passenger
automobiles and pick-up trucks
   (B)   In non-residential districts, all exterior storage shall be screened.
The exceptions are:
      (1)   Merchandise being displayed for sale;
      (2)   Materials and equipment currently being used for construction on
the premises;
      (3)   Merchandise located on service station pump islands.
   (C)   In non-residential districts, up to three commercial vehicles such as
delivery and service trucks up to 11,075 pounds of gross weight may be parked
without screening if the vehicles relate to the principle use. Construction
equipment, trailers and vehicles over 11,075 pounds shall require screening.
   (D)   In all districts, the City Council may order the owner of any property
to cease or modify open storage uses including existing uses, providing it is
found that the use constitutes a threat to the public health, safety,
convenience or general welfare.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.068 USE AND PARKING OF MOBILE HOMES, TRAVEL TRAILER AND SIMILAR VEHICLES
FOR BUSINESS OR INDUSTRY.
   No mobile home, travel trailer, motor home, camper or similar vehicle may be
used for office, business, industrial manufacturing, testing or storage of
items used with or in a business, commercial or industrial enterprise.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.069 RESERVED.
§ 153.070 RESERVED.
§ 153.071 FENCES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The city recognizes the health, safety, aesthetic
and economic value of fences.
      (1)   The provisions of this section are intended to:
         (a)   Allow for areas on-site for privacy;
         (b)   Provide screening and mitigation of potential conflicts between
different uses;
         (c)   Enhance the overall aesthetic conditions within the city;
         (d)   Limit sight line obstructions;
         (e)   Reduce the potential for criminal and illegal activities; and
         (f)   Prevent conflicts with utilities and drainage flow.
      (2)   The purpose of this section is not to:
         (a)   Regulate naturally growing shrubs, trees or other foliage; or
         (b)   Regulate landscape or retaining walls.
   (B)   Definitions.
      FENCE. Any freestanding structure, partition, wall, gate or enclosure
permanently anchored in/to the ground, designed and erected to permanently
serve as a dividing marker, enclosure, physical barrier, visual barrier or
sound barrier.
      TEMPORARY/PORTABLE FENCE. Any freestanding structure, partition, wall,
gate or enclosure that may or may not be permanently anchored in/to the ground,
designed and erected to serve as an easily moveable short-term enclosure or
barrier.
   (C)   Permit required.
      (1)   Administrative zoning permit. An administrative zoning permit shall
be required for all fences, four feet to six feet tall and located within ten
feet from a property/boundary line.
      (2)   Building permit. A building permit shall be required for all fences
over six feet tall.
      (3)   Exceptions. Subject to the other provisions stated within this
section, the following shall not require a permit:
         (a)   Any fence less than four feet tall.
         (b)   Any maintenance, upkeep and/or repair of fences.
         (c)   Any underground electric pet fencing.
         (d)   Any animal enclosure located at least five feet away from a
property line and less than 150 square feet. However, animal enclosures located
closer than ten feet to the property line shall be adequately screened from the
closest neighboring property.
         (e)   Any patio, trash container or utility screen located at least
five feet away from a property line and less than 32 feet in length.
         (f)   Any permanent garden or landscape fencing located at least five
feet away from the property line. However, such garden and landscape fencing
shall only be used within the parameters of the distinct garden and/or
landscaping area.
         (g)   Any temporary/portable snow fencing.
         (h)   Any temporary/portable construction/safety fencing.
         (i)   Any temporary/portable soil erosion fencing. However, all
erosion fencing associated with a construction project shall be completely
taken down upon issuance of a final certificate of occupancy.
         (j)   Any temporary/portable special event fencing located within non-
residential districts. Special event fencing located within residential
districts may require an interim use permit as determined by the city.
   (D)   Application requirements and site inspections.
      (1)   All fence permit applications shall include a certificate of survey
and site map, drawn to scale, showing/labeling the following:
         (a)   Property address and/or legal description.
         (b)   Fronting street(s) and street names.
         (c)   Property lines and property line dimensions.
         (d)   Proposed fence type.
         (e)   Proposed location of the fence and distance from property lines.
         (f)   Existing objects and/or structures located near the proposed
fence.
      (2)   All fence applicants/installers shall clearly mark the location of
all property corners, boundary lines and proposed fence posts with the
assistance of a registered surveyor and/or a certificate of survey. Such
markings may be made with paint, flags, stakes and/or laths before a site
inspection is conducted by the designated city official.
   (E)   Location.
      (1)   Rights-of-way and easements.
         (a)   Private fences shall not extend into any public rights-of-way,
easements or into public property except by means of an encroachment agreement
approved by the city. The encroachment agreement shall also be recorded with
the County Recorder's Office. The city retains the right to deny encroachment
requests for any or no reason. Further, the city or any utility company having
authority to use the rights-of-way or easements, shall not be liable for repair
or replacement of fences in the event that they are moved, damaged or destroyed
by virtue of the lawful use of the easement.
         (b)   Any fence placed in a drainage easement shall not adversely
affect drainage or create debris build-up.
         (c)   All fence applicants and/or property owners are responsible for
verifying that no conflict exists with utilities prior to installation.
      (2)   Boundary fences.
         (a)   In an effort to physically visualize property boundary lines,
discourage back-to-back fences, and reduce small unmaintained gaps between
fences, all boundary fences (fences located within ten feet of a property line)
shall be located directly on or abut up to the shared neighboring property
line.
         (b)   Only one boundary fence shall be located on or near the common
property line between neighboring properties.
         (c)   Exceptions:
            1.   In the case of existing plantings and/or other objects located
on or near the property line, the city shall prefer that such obstructions be
removed from the path of the proposed fence. However, if the city concludes
that such obstructions may remain in place, then an appropriate setback
distance for the proposed fence will be determined by the city.
            2.   In the case that an existing neighboring fence is located
within ten feet of the shared property line, the fence applicant and/or
property owner shall work with the neighboring fence owner to tie-into or move
the existing fence onto the common property line. However, if a private
agreement cannot be arranged by the neighboring property owners to connect into
or relocate the existing fence, the city shall determine an appropriate setback
location for the proposed fence.
            3.   In the case that a shared common boundary fence between
neighboring properties is not aesthetically or physically consistent with an
existing and/or a proposed fencing type, two parallel fences may be considered
by the city if placed directly back-to-back.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   All private fences shall be setback at least two feet away from
the edge of any public sidewalk or trail.
         (b)   All private fences shall be setback at least 15 feet away from
the road edge or back-of- curb along a public street, and all private fences
shall be setback at least five feet away from the road edge along a public
alley. All private boundary fences shall be placed according to these setbacks
or on the property line, whichever is a greater distance away from the public
roadway.
         (c)   Private fences adjacent to wetlands shall be setback in
accordance with all applicable city, state and federal wetland buffer
regulations as amended from time to time.
   (F)   Height.
      (1)   Measurement. Height shall be measured from ground level elevation
to the top of the fence.
      (2)   Residential fences.
         (a)   Side and rear yards. Fences located within a side or rear yard
shall not exceed six feet in height.
         (b)   Front yard. Fences located within a front yard shall not exceed
four feet in height.
         (c)   Corner lot - double frontage. Fences located within the
secondary front yard of a corner lot shall be considered a front yard fence and
not exceed four feet in height. Exception: any fence located within a secondary
front yard that abuts the secondary front yard of a neighboring property may be
extended to a height no taller than six feet.
         (d)   Corner lot - multi-frontage. Fences located within the secondary
front yard of a corner lot having public roadway frontage on more than three
sides may be allowed to extend to a height no taller than six feet.
         (e)   Rear yard - double frontage. Rear yard fences fronting along a
public roadway/ alleyway may be extended to a height no taller than six feet.
         (f)   Irregular lot or parcel. In the case of an irregular shaped lot/
parcel, the city shall determine the most appropriate fence height and type
based on the requirements stated in this section.
      (3)   Non-residential fences. Except by conditional use permit, all non-
residential fences shall not exceed eight feet in height.
   (G)   Type.
      (1)   Residential fences constructed along a property boundary line shall
be a sturdy low-maintenance type, such as vinyl-coated chain link, steel,
aluminum, wrought iron, vinyl, composite or other similar materials determined
acceptable by the city. High-quality wood fences may be allowed along a
property boundary if resistant to moisture rot, kept in good condition and
regularly maintained. In the case that temporary access for the purpose of
necessary maintenance on a residential boundary fence is not granted by a
neighboring property, boundary fences should be constructed in a manner that
allows the fence to be removed or tilted back towards the fence owner's
property.
      (2)   Thin-wire (wire thinner than 12-gauge) fencing shall not be used as
boundary fencing.
      (3)   Agriculture-type wire boundary fencing shall only be used in
association with permitted agriculture uses.
      (4)   For security purposes, barbed wire fencing shall only be permitted
in conjunction with mixed commercial-industrial, industrial, public, semi-
public and agriculture land uses. All non-agriculture barbed wire fencing shall
be placed at least seven feet above ground level in a manner that does not
endanger the general public.
      (5)   All razor wire and electric fences shall be prohibited.
      (6)   The city does not enforce neighborhood covenants restricting
specific types of fences.
      (7)   Retaining wall barriers. A permanent barrier shall be required at
the top of retaining walls if the height of the drop-off is greater than 2 ½
feet (30 inches) and the top edge of the drop-off is located within five feet
of a public sidewalk or trail. A permanent barrier may also be required at the
top of a retaining wall deemed as an obvious safety threat to the general
public by the city.
      (8)   Swimming pool fences and barriers. All fences and barriers
associated with swimming pools and hot tubs/spas shall comply with the
regulations stated in the State Building Code as amended from time to time.
Swimming pools or spas secured with a code compliant safety cover as determined
by the Building Official may be exempt from the following requirements:
         (a)   All permanent swimming pools, including in-ground pools and
above-ground pools with rigid walls, shall be completely surrounded by a fence
or wall not less than four feet in height, which shall be constructed as not to
have openings, holes or gaps larger than four inches in either vertical or
horizontal direction, except for doors and gates. The fence shall be of a type
not readily climbed by children. A building or accessory building may be used
as part of such enclosure. An above-ground pool with a wall greater than four
feet in height does not require a fence if the wall cannot be readily climbed
by children and the pool can be secured while not in actual use.
         (b)   All gates or doors opening through such enclosure shall be
equipped with a self-closing and self-latching device for keeping the gate or
door securely closed at all times when not in actual use and be provided with
hardware for permanent locking devices, except that the door of any dwelling
which forms a part of the enclosure need not be so equipped. Pool gates shall
be locked when the pool is not in use.
   (H)   General regulations.
      (1)   All fencing affecting traffic visibility shall comply with the
regulations stated in §153.063(F) of the zoning ordinance, as it may be
amended.
      (2)   The finished side of all fences shall face away from the fence
owner's property.
      (3)   All boundary fences shall be constructed so as to leave adequate
clearance between the ground level and the bottom of the fence in order that
the yard/landscaping lying directly under the fence can be easily trimmed and
maintained.
      (4)   All front yard residential fences shall be a decorative type and at
least 75% open (not greater than 25% opaque). Chain-link fences shall be
prohibited in residential front yards.
      (5)   All temporary/portable fencing shall only be permitted for the time
period necessary to fulfill the primary purpose for which the fence was
intended. Except for construction/safety and erosion control fencing, no
temporary/portable fencing shall be used for a period longer than six
consecutive months per year without official city approval.
      (6)   All fences shall be compatible with the principal building and with
the surrounding environment.
      (7)   The city shall not be held liable for any damage caused to a
private fence while maintaining or clearing nearby public roads, trails,
sidewalks or other public infrastructure.
      (8)   It shall be the responsibility of all fence owners to keep their
fence in a condition of good repair and appearance on both sides of the fence
and not in a condition of disrepair, danger, or constitute a public or private
nuisance. Any fence shall be considered a public nuisance, if it does not
comply with the following:
         (a)   All fences shall comply with associated regulations relating to
nuisances and blight stated in the City Code.
         (b)   All fences shall be firmly fastened and anchored in order that
it is not leaning or otherwise in the stage of collapse.
         (c)   All fences shall be maintained in sound and good repair and free
from deterioration, loose or rotting pieces, or holes, breaks or gaps not
otherwise intended in the original design of the fence. All fences shall be
free from any defects or condition which makes the fence hazardous.
         (d)   All exterior wood surfaces of any fence, other than decay
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements by paint or other
protective surface covering or treatment, which shall be maintained in good
repair to provide the intended protection from the elements.
         (e)   No fence section shall have peeling, cracked, chipped or
otherwise deteriorated surface finish.
   (I)   Special purpose fences. Fences for special purpose and fences
differing in construction, height or location, may be permitted in any
district, only by issuance of a conditional use permit and upon evidence that
the special purpose fence is necessary to protect, buffer or improve the
premises for which the fence is intended.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2004-152, passed 7-15-2004; Am. Ord. 2007-217,
passed 12-27-2007; Am. Ord. 2011-242, passed 4-28-2011)
§ 153.072 PERMITTED YARD/SETBACK ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   Encroachments allowed; all residential. The following shall be
considered as permitted encroachments within required residential yard setbacks
for detached single-family or two-family dwellings:
      (1)   Attached accessory structures.
         (a)   Cantilevers up to ten feet in width, chimneys, flues, pilasters,
pergolas, sills, lintels, canopies, ornamental features, cornices, rain
leaders, eaves, gutters, and the like, provided they do not project more than
two feet into a yard.
         (b)   Exceptions.
            1.   Balconies, at least eight feet or more above the ground, may
project four feet into a required front yard or rear yard and two feet into a
required side yard.
            2.   Unenclosed and uncovered rear yard landings/decks and
associated stairs may project four feet into a required rear yard.
      (2)   Unattached accessory structures. Recreational equipment, laundry
drying apparatus, arbors, trellises, pergolas, gazebos, air conditioning/
heating equipment, and the like, shall be allowed only in a rear or side yard,
provided they are at a distance of five feet from any lot line.
   (B)   Encroachments allowed; original residential. The following shall be
considered as permitted encroachments within required residential yard setbacks
for detached single-family or two-family dwellings on lots platted prior to
1990 and/or homes built prior to 1990:
      (1)   Uncovered accessory structures. Terraces, steps, decks, uncovered
porches, stoops, or similar accessory structures, limited to not more than a
height of three feet above grade may extend to within five feet of a side yard
lot line and 15 feet of a rear yard lot line, but not more than five feet into
a required front yard or side yard adjacent to a public right of way.
      (2)   Covered and/or enclosed entrances. One-story entrances, not
exceeding 50 square feet in size, including but not limited to covered/enclosed
porches, and the like, may extend into the front yard setback not more than
five feet. In no case shall such entrances be setback less than 20 feet away
from the public right of way.
   (C)   Commercial and higher density residential properties shall require
site plan review.
   (D)   No encroachment shall be permitted in existing or required drainage
and utility easements.
(Ord. 2012-254, passed 10-25-2012)
§ 153.073 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Intent. In order to provide peace, quiet and domestic tranquility
within all residential neighborhoods within the city, and in order to guarantee
to all residents freedom from excessive noise, excessive traffic, nuisance,
fire hazard and other possible effects of commercial uses being conducted in
residential areas.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   A HOME OCCUPATION is defined as any business or commercial activity
that is conducted or petitioned to be conducted from property that is zoned for
residential use.
      (2)   A home occupation is authorized by this section without hearing.
   (C)   Standards. All home occupations shall conform to the following
standards:
      (1)   No interior or exterior business sign shall be permitted unless
authorized by the sign regulations for residential districts.
      (2)   There shall be no exterior storage of business equipment,
materials, merchandise, inventory or heavy equipment.
      (3)   Vehicular traffic flow and parking within the driveway shall not
increase by more than four additional vehicles at a time.
      (4)   All parking related to the home occupation shall be off street and
within the driveway.
      (5)   Any manufacturing business or activity which produces noxious
matter or perceptible noise beyond the lot line is prohibited.
      (6)   Shall not constitute a fire hazard to neighboring residences, will
not adversely affect neighboring property values, nor constitute a nuisance or
otherwise be detrimental to the neighbors because of excessive traffic,
excessive noise, odors or other circumstances.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.074 RESIDENTIAL SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Residential single-family dwellings (free standing detached dwellings
homes), including two-family dwellings (attached twin home or duplex
dwellings), multi-family dwellings not exceeding four dwelling units (attached
three-unit or four-unit townhouse dwellings), and manufactured homes shall
comply with the regulations stated in this section.
   (B)   Residential multi-family dwellings consisting of five or more units
shall be required to follow the city's official site plan review process.
   (C)   The words "dwelling" and "home" can be used interchangeably in this
section.
   (D)   Building and zoning regulations.
      (1)   Building Permit. 
         (a)   Before construction may commence on a new single-family home or
a new addition/expansion, a building permit application shall be approved by
the city. A building permit application shall not be considered complete until
the following items are fully finalized, completed, and submitted to the city:
            1.   Official building permit application form;
            2.   Two paper copies and one digital copy of the following:
               a.   Certificate of survey (showing scale, north arrow, lot
size, property lines, property monuments/pins, existing/proposed structures and
features, existing/proposed elevations/slopes, existing/proposed impervious
areas, driveways, building setbacks, and associated dimensions);
               b.   Erosion control plan;
               c.   Floor plans;
               d.   Building elevation plans (indicate construction materials,
height, size, design, and appearance of proposed building); and
               e.   Energy code calculations/information;
            3.   Other relevant/necessary permits and information requested by
the city; and
            4.   Permit fees and other associated fees per the city fee
schedule.
         (b)   Any missing items, information, and/or unacceptable payment
shall constitute an incomplete application, and review will be discontinued
until such item(s), information, and/or acceptable payment is received by the
city.
      (2)   Zoning regulations. Single-family dwellings, including additions/
expansions, shall comply with all zoning regulations.
      (3)   Building Code. All new single-family dwellings and additions/
expansions shall meet the requirements of the International Residential Code
and State Building Code or the applicable Manufactured Housing Code.
   (E)   Home and exterior design. Any new single-family dwellings constructed
after October 12, 2017 shall follow the standards set forth in this section.
      (1)   Exterior architecture and home design.
         (a)   New homes shall maintain a high standard for exterior
architecture to ensure a high quality of development and land use compatibility
that contributes positively to community image in regard to material quality,
visual aesthetics, permanence and stability, and to prevent use of materials
that are unsightly, deteriorate rapidly, or contribute to depreciation of
surrounding property values. The city shall not be responsible for costs
associated with property/home value appraisals.
         (b)   The exterior architectural design of a proposed dwelling must be
sufficiently similar to the exterior architectural design of existing dwellings
in the immediate neighborhood and must not be so different from the surrounding
neighborhood that it adversely affects other persons' enjoyment of their
property or disrupt the welfare and general harmony of the community. All new
homes shall fit in with nearby existing homes in terms of size, color, design,
and architecture.
      (2)   Minimum home/dwelling size.
         (a)   All single-family dwelling shall have a minimum width and depth
of at least 26 feet, which may include the measurement of an attached garage.
         (b)   All new residential dwelling units shall meet the following
minimum above-grade home size requirements according to the specified zoning
district:
 
Home Type                         Minimum Dwelling Unit Size
                                  R-1, R-1A, R-2 Districts R-2A, R-3 Districts
One-story, split/mid-level entry, 1,250 sq. ft.            1,000 sq. ft.
and rambler style homes*
One-story/single-floor slab on    1,500 sq. ft.            1,200 sq. ft.
grade style homes**
Two-story or modified two- story  1,750 sq. ft.            1,400 sq. ft.
style homes*
Two-story or modified two- story  2,000 sq. ft.            1,600 sq. ft.
slab on grade style homes**
* Homes having a lower level/basement with a ceiling clearance of at least
seven feet.
** Homes without a lower level/basement.
 
         (c)   Other home styles. Other home styles, not listed above, shall be
constructed to a similar above-grade home size as the above-mentioned minimum
home sizes.
         (d)   Home size area calculations shall not include basements,
garages, and open porches.
         (e)   Crawl spaces and lower level areas less than seven feet in
height shall not be considered a basement. Lower level areas and basements
shall have a similar perimeter size as the above-grade main level floor.
      (3)   Foundation. A permanent perimeter foundation of concrete, concrete
block, or wood, as approved by the International Residential Code and State
Building Code, is required. All wood foundations shall be engineered and
professionally installed.
      (4)   Exterior walls, siding, and finish materials.
         (a)   Wall offset. Exterior facade (front-facing) walls shall have
multiple jogs/offsets.
         (b)   Exterior siding. Homes shall have exterior siding or other city
approved finish materials. Exterior siding or other finish materials shall be
of a high quality conventional exterior dwelling-type material, with proven
exterior durability, and aesthetically pleasing appearance. Sheet metal siding
is prohibited.
         (c)   Brick/stone. A minimum of 100 square feet of the home's facade
shall have an exterior finish of brick, stone, or other masonry products
similar in appearance and quality, and durability. The city may allow other
building materials/products in lieu of brick/stone, if such material is found
architecturally sound and visually appealing by the city.
         (d)   Multiple siding designs. In addition to the required brick/
stone, homes shall incorporate at least two other complementary exterior facade
siding designs, such as, but not limited to, vertical siding, horizontal
siding, shakes, or different colors.
      (5)   Windows. Homes shall have at least two separated facade window
units/openings. Overhead garage door windows may suffice in lieu of one facade
window. Home facade windows shall incorporate at least one of the following
decorative window design features: glass grid pattern, glass perimeter grid
pattern, thicker/architectural window trim, bay/cantilever windows, arched/
curved windows, window shutters, or other design feature approved by the city.
      (6)   Roof design.
         (a)   Facade gables. Homes shall have a minimum of two facade facing
gable ends.
         (b)   Roof pitch. Homes shall have a minimum pitched roof slope of at
least 6/12 and a minimum slope of 7/12 on facade gables. Any hip roofs shall
have a minimum slope of 7/12. Flat roofs shall require special approval by the
Building Inspector.
         (c)   Roof offset. Homes shall have multiple roof jogs/offsets.
         (d)   Roofing materials. The roof shall be covered with conventional
dwelling-type shingles or tiles. Metal roofing shall be allowed on single-
family dwellings as follows: metal roofing shall have a low-glare coating and a
similar appearance to that of overlapping asphalt shingles or ceramic/stone
tiles. All roofing materials and roof colors shall be compatible with the
home's exterior siding and in character with the surrounding neighborhood.
         (e)   Roof eave/fascia. Eaves/fascia shall not be less than six
inches.
         (f)   Roof overhang. The minimum roof overhang shall be 12 inches.
      (7)   Front entrance.
         (a)   Front porch. Homes shall have a covered front porch or entryway.
         (b)   Columns and posts. All front porch or entryway columns/posts
shall be of a decorative type. Decorative posts/columns may include, but not be
limited to the following types: brick/stone posts or base, thicker posts,
tapered posts, multiple posts, rounded posts, and posts with a base and cap.
Wooden posts shall be covered with stain, paint, or low-maintenance wraps.
Posts shall be at least six inches wide.
         (c)   Porch railings. Front porch railings may be substituted for the
required brick/stone on a one-to-one ratio.
         (d)   Front door sidelights and windows. In addition to the two
required facade windows, homes shall have at least one full-size sidelight
window next to the front door. The following may suffice in lieu of a
sidelight: double/wider decorative front doors; facade windows, of similar size
to that of the sidelight, located within one foot of the front door; and a
decorative front door window, if adequate room is not available for a sidelight
and/or the majority of neighboring homes do not have a sidelight.
      (8)   Garages.
         (a)   Garage design. All homes shall incorporate at least one of the
following decorative garage door design features: garage windows, decorative
hardware, decorative wood/wood appearance, arched top, or other design features
approved by the city. Raised panel garage doors shall not alone be considered a
decorative feature.
         (b)   Garage size. All new single-family dwellings shall have at
minimum an attached garage, no less than the following.
 
Minimum Garage Size Per Zoning Zoning District
District                       R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-2A Districts R-3 District
Minimum garage size            600 square feet                440 square feet
 
         (c)   Garages shall be a minimum of 20 feet in width along the facade.
If adequate property space is available, new homes/garages shall be positioned
in such a way as to provide for the potential location of additional attached
garage space, whether or not construction is intended.
         (d)   Garage lights. A decorative exterior facade garage light shall
be installed on each side or above an overhead garage door. Recessed facade eve
lights may suffice in lieu of a decorative garage light.
      (9)   Other home design features. In some cases, the city may consider
the substitution of other design features in lieu of the listed home and
exterior design requirements stated in this section. Such features may include,
but not be limited to, roof corbels, louver vents, steeper roof pitches, hip
roofs, taller entryways, wider front porches, front porch railings, or other
city approved design features.
      (10)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Building additions/expansions to any single-family home
constructed prior to October 12, 2017, shall not be required to meet the
standards set forth in this division (E).
         (b)   New homes being constructed in pre-1990 neighborhoods shall only
be required to meet three-fourths of the listed home and exterior design
requirements stated in this section.
         (c)   Properties part of PUD, Planned Unit Development, shall be
subject to the home size and design requirements set forth within each
applicable PUD agreement.
   (F)   Neighborhood covenants. Compliance with this section does not relieve
a property owner of also complying with any applicable protective/restrictive
covenants. Also, compliance with any such covenants does not relieve a property
owner of also complying with this section.
(Ord. 2018-284, passed 1-25-18; Am. Ord. 2018-292, passed 11-29-2018; Am. Ord.
2019-294, passed 2-27-2019; Am. Ord. 2022-312, passed 6-9-2022)
§ 153.075 ZERO LOT LINE PROVISIONS.
   Two-family residential lots may be platted or subdivided in such a manner
that the common boundary line for the residential units will have a zero lot
line setback, provided, however, that the lot meets with the following
requirements:
   (A)   Each lot shall have a minimum square footage of 6,000 square feet;
   (B)   Separate services shall be furnished to each residential unit for
sanitary sewer and water;
   (C)   Fence or shrubbery dividers may be installed or maintained on the
common boundary line in the rear of the structure;
   (D)   The two-family unit shall be constructed in a side-by-side manner;
   (E)   A double fire wall in conformance with the building code shall be
constructed as a common wall extending from the foundation up to the rafters of
the building.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.076 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   The traffic generated by any use shall be channelized and controlled
in a manner that will avoid: congestion on public streets, traffic hazards and
excessive traffic through residential areas, particularly truck traffic.
   (B)   Internal traffic shall be so regulated as to insure its safe and
orderly flow. Traffic into and out of commercial and industrial areas shall, to
the extent possible, be forward moving with no backing into streets. On corner
lots, no structure or other materials shall be placed within the intersection
sight distance triangle between the height of 2 and one-half and 10 feet above
the center line grade of the intersecting street. This intersection sight
distance triangle is described as that area on the street side of a line drawn
between two points located approximately 30 feet from the point of the
intersection of the curb lines of the intersecting streets.
   (C)   Access drives and access.
      (1)   A number and type of access drives onto arterial or collector
streets may be controlled and limited in the interest of public safety and
efficient traffic flow.
      (2)   Access drives onto county or state highways shall require a review
by the County or State Engineer who shall determine the appropriate location,
size and design of the access drives and may limit the number of access drives
in the interest of public safety and efficient traffic flow.
      (3)   All lots or parcels shall have direct adequate physical access for
emergency service vehicles along the frontage of the lot or parcel from either
an existing dedicated public roadway or an existing private roadway approved by
the City Council.
   (D)   Vacated streets. Whenever any street, alley, easement or public way is
vacated by official action, the zoning district abutting the center line of the
vacated area shall not be affected by the proceedings.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.077 OFF-STREET PARKING AND STORAGE ON RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definitions and classification of vehicle types. For the purpose of
this section only, the following definitions shall apply.
      COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle used for commercial purposes including,
but not limited to: commercially licensed vehicles, vehicles claimed for tax
purposes of at least 10% business use, vehicles used more than 50% for non-
personal use, trailers, motorized wheeled or tracked vehicles, or vehicles
displaying company signage, company logos, commercial equipment, fixtures, or
tools.
      COMMERCIAL VEHICLE — MAJOR. Any commercial vehicle and/or associated
trailer which:
         (a)   Exceeds a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of 19,500 lbs.;
         (b)   Exceeds 24 feet in length; or
         (c)   Any of the following types of vehicles regardless of weight/
length, including, but not limited to: semitrailers, tractor portion of
semitrucks, garbage trucks, tank trucks, dump trucks, flatbed trucks, tow
trucks, cattle trucks, coach buses, school buses designed to carry more than 20
persons, or any other similar vehicle.
      COMMERCIAL VEHICLE — MINOR. All commercial vehicles other than major
commercial vehicles including pickup trucks, vans, trailers, and school buses
designed to carry 20 persons or less. Said commercial vehicles shall also be
eight feet in height or less, a maximum of 24 feet in length, and no more than
19,500 lbs.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, trailer, and/or associated
hauling trailer, primarily used for sport/leisure activities, travel, camping,
and/or temporary lodging.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE — MAJOR. Any recreational vehicle exceeding 24 feet
in length including, but not limited to: Class A motor homes, Class C motor
homes, travel trailers, fifth-wheel trailers, boats, personal watercraft, and
other similar recreational vehicles/trailers. Such vehicles shall not exceed 45
feet in length).
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE — MINOR. Any recreational vehicle not exceeding 24
feet in length including, but not limited to: Class B motor homes, travel
trailers, folding tent/camping trailers, truck campers, boats, personal
watercraft, and other similar recreational vehicles/trailers.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE — SEASONAL. Any recreational vehicle designed for
use during either: 1) the warm weather season, from April 1 — October 31 in a
given year; or 2) the cold weather season, from November 15 — March 31 in a
given year. Seasonal recreational vehicles shall be classified as shown below:
SEASONAL CLASSIFICATION OF
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND ASSOCIATED TRAILERS
 
Warm Weather Season        Cold Weather Season       Year-Round
Motorized watercraft                                 Light weight off-road
(boats, pontoons, jet      Ice houses without wheels vehicles
skis)
Non-motorized personal
watercraft (canoes,        Snowmobiles               Light weight side-by-side
kayaks, paddleboards,                                utility vehicles
paddleboats)
Hunting/waterfowl boats                             Ice houses w/ wheels
Low powered golf carts and                          Dirt bikes
extreme golf carts
Motorcycles                                         All-terrain vehicles (ATV)
Motor homes/campers/RVs
(motor vehicles or                                   Flat and enclosed utility
trailers equipped with                              trailers
living space and amenities
typically found in a home)
 
      STANDARD VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle not exceeding 14,000 lbs. in gross
vehicle weight including, but not limited to: cars, pickup trucks, sport
utility vehicles, crossovers, and non-commercial trucks classified as a Class 1
(6,000 lbs. or less), Class 2 (6,001 — 10,000 lbs.), or Class 3 (10,001 —
14,000 lbs.).
      UTILITY TRAILER. A small non-motorized vehicle not exceeding 16 feet in
length designed to be pulled by a motorized vehicle which features an open-top
or enclosed rear cargo area/bed used for the hauling of lighter loads. Utility
trailers exceeding 16 feet in length and/or eight feet in height shall be
considered a major recreational vehicle.
   (B)   Measurement of trailer length. The measurement of total trailer length
shall include the tongue portion of the trailer.
   (C)   Vehicle limit. The maximum number of vehicles/trailers parked outside
per residential lot/parcel is as follows:
      (1)   Maximum number of standard vehicles: 4
      (2)   Maximum number of recreational vehicles: 3
      (3)   One utility trailer shall be counted as one recreational vehicle.
      (4)   One commercial vehicle shall be counted as two standard vehicles.
      (5)   One major recreational vehicle shall be counted as two recreational
vehicles.
      (6)   One associated recreational vehicle trailer, not exceeding 24 feet
in length, holding any combination of recreational vehicles, shall be counted
as one recreational vehicle.
   (D)   Parking setbacks and location. Storage of standard motor vehicles,
recreational vehicles, and/or commercial vehicles shall be limited to garages,
driveways, and other permitted parking pad/areas of residential properties as
shown on following tables:
      (1)   Standard vehicles.
 
                                    Permitted Setback
Front yard                          Yes       5 ft.
Side yard — opposite garage side  No        -
Side yard — garage side parking paYes       2 ft.
Side/corner lot — garage side pad Yes       25 ft.
Rear yard                           Yes       10 ft.
Rear yard w/ frontage (no access)   Yes       50 ft.
 
      (2)   Utility trailers.
 
                                    Permitted Setback
Front yard                          Yes       10 ft.
Side yard — opposite garage side  No        -
Side yard — garage side parking paYes       2 ft.
Side/corner lot — garage side pad Yes       25 ft.
Rear yard                           Yes       10 ft.
Rear yard w/ frontage (no access)   Yes       50 ft.
 
      (3)   Minor recreational vehicles.
 
                                    Permitted Setback
Front yard                          Yes       10 ft.(s)
Side yard — opposite garage side  No        -
Side yard — garage side parking paYes       2 ft.
Side/comer lot— garage side pad   Yes       25 ft.
Rear yard                           Yes       10 ft.
Rear yard w/ frontage (no access)   Yes       50 ft.(s)
 
   (s) Seasonal recreational vehicles prohibited during the off-season.
      (4)   Major recreational vehicles.
 
                                    Permitted Setback
Front yard                          Yes       10 ft.(s)
S side yard — opposite garage sideNo        -
Side yard — garage side parking paYes       5 ft.(s)
Side/corner lot — garage side pad Yes       25 ft.(s)
Rear yard                           No        -
Rear yard w/ frontage (no access)   No        -
 
   (s) Seasonal recreational vehicles prohibited during the off-season.
      (5)   Minor commercial vehicles.
 
                                    Permitted Setback
Front yard                          Yes       5 ft.
Side yard — opposite garage side  No        -
Side yard — garage side parking paYes       2 ft.
Side/corner lot — garage side pad Yes       25 ft.
Rear yard                           No        -
Rear yard w/ frontage (no access)   No        -
 
      (6)   Major commercial vehicles. Reference §
153.077(H)(1).
      (7)   Setback measurement. All frontage setbacks shall be measured from
the back-of curb or road edge. All other setbacks shall be measured from the
nearest property line according to a property survey or best available
information.
      (8)   Obstruction. Vehicles shall not block sidewalks or trails. No
vehicles shall intrude into an intersection sight triangle area as defined in §
153.079(K)(2).
      (9)   Vacant lots. All vehicles and trailers shall be prohibited on
vacant residential lots/parcel.
   (E)   General regulations.
      (1)   Driveways and parking areas.
         (a)   Surface. All vehicles shall be parked on a hard dust free
surface such as concrete, bituminous/asphalt, pavers, or on a city approved
decorative rock surface. Decorative rock shall not be used to surface any main
driveway areas. No rock or gravel containing fines shall be allowed as a
surfacing material. All decorative rock parking areas shall be constructed on
top of a commercial grade weed prevention fabric to a depth of at least four
inches of rock and contained by high-quality, sturdy edging.
         (b)   Surface maintenance. All driveways and parking areas shall be
regularly maintained to prevent grass/weed growth, surface deterioration, and
edging damage.
         (c)   Size. Driveways and parking areas shall be large enough to
accommodate the size of the vehicle(s) being stored. Garage side parking pads
may be constructed up to 14 feet wide. Driveway access from a public street to
a residential single-family detached dwelling shall not exceed 28 feet in width
at the front right-of-way line.
      (2)   Permit A zoning permit shall be required for all new parking pads
located within side or rear yards. Said permit shall be reviewed and approved
by the City Administrator or his/her designee. No fee shall be required for
said review and permit. A permit is not required for standard front yard
driveways.
      (3)   Drainage. Hard surfaced driveways and parking areas constructed
within a drainage easement or drainage way shall be designed to complement the
original grading plan and avoid shedding excess surface water runoff onto
neighboring properties. Other than the front/main driveway, any parking
encroachment into an easement may require a special permit or encroachment
agreement as determined by the City Administrator or his/her designee.
      (4)   Vehicle covers. In the event that a tarp or other material is used
to cover a vehicle, said cover shall be conformed snug around the vehicle and
of an earthen/natural color.
      (5)   Vehicle shelters. All new residential single-family homes shall
have no less than an attached two stall garage. Any non-permeant vehicle
storage structure, portable carport, and other similar structure designed to
house vehicles, as determined by the City Building Official, shall be
prohibited.
   (F)   Utility trailers. Utility trailers shall be located completely on the
owner’s property and be kept in good repair and appearance. Utility trailers
may be parked in non-permitted locations or on grass temporarily for the
purpose loading/unloading, yard maintenance, and/or on-site construction
projects. Unless determined necessary by the City Administrator or his/her
designee, screening of utility trailers is not required.
   (G)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Recreational vehicles and associated trailers shall be located
completely on the owner’s property, be operable without need of repair, and
currently licensed/registered to the owner/occupant of the premises upon which
they are stored.
      (2)   Loading and unloading. Recreational vehicles may be parked in non-
permitted locations temporarily for the sole purpose of loading and unloading
for up to 48 consecutive hours.
      (3)   Use. Recreational vehicles shall not be used as an on-site home
office/business, occupied as living quarters, or be connected in any way to
public sewer/water service. However, permitted recreational vehicles may be
utilized as a temporary living space for up to 14 days per calendar year.
Portable accessory dwelling units and other similar mobile structures utilized
as a living space are prohibited.
      (4)   Screening. Unless parked for purposes of temporarily loading/
unloading, or as otherwise provided by this section, all recreational vehicles,
whether parked in a conforming location or by special permit, shall provide
screening to the height of the vehicle or six feet, whichever is less. Front
yard screening is not required. Screening shall consist of ether privacy
fencing and/or evergreen plantings. Evergreen plantings shall be at least four
(4) feet tall at the time of initial planting and any dead plantings must be
replaced.
   (H)   Commercial vehicle parking.
      (1)   Commercial vehicle — major. No major commercial vehicles or
equipment may be parked, stored, or otherwise located on any residential lot/
parcel within an area zoned as residential, except for the following: 1) short-
term loading/unloading, 2) emergency situations, or 3) by special permit, per §
153.077(I)(3).
      (2)   Commercial vehicle — minor. Minor commercial vehicles may be parked
on a residential lot/parcel if used as the resident’s primary form of
transportation to/from the resident’s job or associated with a permitted home
business.
      (3)   Contracting and excavating equipment. All contracting and
excavating equipment located on residential lots/parcels for over 48
consecutive hours shall be stored inside of an accessory building or garage.
Long-term outside parking/storage of contracting and excavating equipment shall
require a special permit per §
153.077(I)(3).
   (I)   Special permits. Based on certain qualifying criteria established by
city policy, a special permit allowing off-street parking may be authorized by
the City Administrator or his/her designee for the following:
      (1)   Non-conforming properties.
         (a)   Post-1990 neighborhoods. Any non-conforming vehicle(s) or
parking area(s) located in residential neighborhoods established on/after
January 1, 1990 and deemed out of compliance at the effective date of this
section, §
153.077, in regard to its location, setback, surfacing, or screening shall
require a special permit in an effort to document said non-conformity and work
towards lessening of the nonconformity and impact on. neighboring properties.
         (b)   Pre-1990 neighborhoods. Due to irregular lot sizes, unique lot
configurations, alley access, multiple driveways, and/or reduced setbacks, it
may be difficult for residents owning lots/parcels established before 1990 to
comply with the latest residential off-street parking standards, set forth in
this section. Therefore, any non-conforming vehicle(s) or parking area(s)
located in residential neighborhoods established prior to January 1, 1990 and
deemed out of compliance at the effective date of this section, §
153.077, in regard to its location, setback, surfacing, or screening may
require a special permit in an effort to document said nonconformity and work
towards lessening of the non-conformity and impact on neighboring properties. A
special permit shall only be required if the City Administrator or his/her
designee determines that the non-conformity is adversely affecting neighboring
properties.
         (c)   Maintenance. At a minimum, all non-conforming parking areas
shall be kept in good repair and appearance, free of weeds/grass, and surfaced
with at least four inches of gravel/rock, constructed on top of a commercial
grade weed prevention fabric, and contained by high-quality, sturdy edging. Any
unmaintained parking areas, as determined by the City Administrator or his/her
designee, may lose their non-conforming status, and be subject to the latest
regulations.
         (d)   Expansion. Any expansion and/or major alteration of said non-
conformity is prohibited without review and approval by the City Council.
         (e)   Exception. If a residential property becomes vacant, without
occupancy, for a period of over one year, said property shall lose its non-
conforming status, and be subject to the latest regulations for residential
off-street parking.
      (2)   Seasonal vehicles. In the case of unseasonable weather conditions,
extended sport seasons or similar circumstances, a special permit may be
considered by the City Administrator or his/her designee, to extend the
seasonal timeframe limits allowed for the parking of seasonal vehicles.
      (3)   Commercial vehicles and equipment. A special permit shall be
required for parking of any major commercial vehicles or long-term outside
parking/storage of contracting equipment.
      (4)   Other unique situations. A special permit shall be required for any
variance from the off-street parking regulations set forth in this section due
to unique circumstances not addressed in this chapter.
      (5)   Issuance. Approval or denial of a special permit shall be solely
within the discretion of the city based on established qualifying criteria and
conditions set forth by the city.
      (6)   Conditions. All special permits issued by the city may be subject
to conditions to lessen the impact on neighboring properties including, but not
limited to: 1) increased setbacks, 2) specific parking location, 3) time
limits, and 4) site improvements, such as screening, surfacing, edging, and
weed protection fabric.
      (7)   Termination. All property owners granted a special permit may risk
the loss of said permit if any of the following take place: 1) the terms/
conditions of the permit are not followed; 2) a parking area is not maintained
and kept a condition of good repair and appearance, 3) corrective action is not
taken immediately, after warning by an city enforcement officer.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2017-275, passed 4-13-2017)
§ 153.078 OFF-STREET PARKING, LOADING, AND ACCESS.
   (A)   Purpose. The regulation of off street parking spaces, loading areas,
and site access is to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public rights-of-
way and to promote the safety and general welfare of the public by establishing
minimum requirements for off street parking and loading areas for motor
vehicles in accordance with the intensity of utilization of various parcels of
land or structures.
   (B)   Application of provisions. The regulations and requirements set forth
in this chapter shall apply to the required and non-required off street parking
facilities and areas in all use districts.
   (C)   General parking and loading provisions.
      (1)   Site plan requirements. All applications for a building permit or a
certificate of occupancy in all zoning districts shall be accompanied by a site
plan, indicating the location and number of off street parking and loading
spaces meeting the requirements set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   Reduction of existing parking and loading spaces. Off street
parking spaces and loading spaces existing upon the effective date hereof shall
not be reduced in number unless the number exceeds the requirements set forth
herein for a similar new use.
      (3)   Change of use or occupancy of land. No change of use or occupancy
of land already dedicated to a parking area, parking spaces, or loading spaces
shall be made, nor shall any sale of land, division or subdivision of land be
made, which reduces area necessary for parking, parking stalls, or parking
requirements below the minimum prescribed by this chapter.
      (4)   Change of use or occupancy of buildings. Any change of use or
occupancy of any building or buildings including additions thereto requiring
more parking area shall not be permitted until additional parking spaces are
provided as required by this chapter.
      (5)   Off site parking facilities. When required accessory off street
parking facilities are provided elsewhere than on the lot in which the
principal use served is located, they shall be in the same ownership or
control, either by deed or long term lease, as the property occupied by such
principal use.
      (6)   Use of parking areas. All parking lot designs shall be well planned
to minimize conflicts between vehicular and pedestrian traffic. Required off
street parking spaces in any district shall not be utilized for vehicle repair,
open storage, stockpiling of snow, debris, materials or goods, or for the
storage of vehicles which are inoperable or for sale or for lease. Disability
accessible parking spaces shall comply with current state and federal
requirements.
      (7)   Computation of required spaces. In computing the number of parking
or loading spaces required, the following rules shall govern:
         (a)   The term FLOOR AREA, for the purpose of calculating the number
of off street parking spaces, shall be the net usable floor area of the various
floors, exclusive of hallways, utility space, restrooms, window showcases, and
ornamental space not used for assembly;
         (b)   Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required
shall be construed to be the nearest whole number;
         (c)   The parking space requirement for a use not specifically
mentioned herein shall be the same as required for a similar use as determined
by the City Administrator or his/her designee; and
         (d)   When computing total number of parking spaces required for a
use, individual activities within the use will be calculated separately and
added together to arrive at the total required parking spaces for each specific
use proposed.
      (8)   Disability accessible parking. Accessible parking spaces for
disabled persons shall be provided as applicable pursuant to M.S. §§ 168.021,
168.345, and 169.346 as may be amended.
   (D)   Dimensional parking and access standards.
      (1)   All off street parking facilities shall comply with the following
dimensional standards:
Parking Lot Dimensions Table
Angle Of Parking Stall Width Curb Length Per Car Stall Depth Aisle Width
Angle Of Parking Stall Width Curb Length Per Car Stall Depth Aisle Width
0°              9' 0"       23' 0"              9' 0"       12' 0"
                 9' 6"       23' 0"              9' 6"       12' 0"
                 10' 0"      23' 0"              10' 0"      12' 0"
20°             9'0"        26 ‘4"            15'0"       11 ‘0"
                 9' 6"       27' 10"             15' 6"      11' 0"
                 10' 0"      29' 3"              15' 11"     11' 0"
30°             9' 0"       18' 0"              17' 4"      11' 0"
                 9' 6"       19' 0"              17' 10"     11' 0"
                 10' 0"      20' 0"              18' 3"      11' 0"
40°             9' 0"       14' 0"              19' 2"      12' 0"
                 9' 6"       14' 10"             19' 6"      12' 0"
                 10' 0"      15' 8"              19' 11"     12' 0"
45°             9' 0"       12' 9"              19' 10"     13' 0"
                 9' 6"       13' 5"              20' 2"      13' 0"
                 10' 0"      14' 2"              20' 6"      13' 0"
50°             9' 0"       11' 9"              20' 5"      12' 0"
                 9' 6"       12' 5"              20' 9"      12' 0"
                 10' 0"      13' 2"              21' 0"      12' 0"
60°             9' 0"       10' 5"              21' 0"      18' 0"
                 9' 6"       11' 0"              21' 3"      18' 0"
                 10' 0"      11' 6"              21' 6"      18' 0"
70°             9' 0"       9' 8"               21' 0"      19' 0"
                 9' 6"       10' 2"              21' 3"      18' 6"
                 10' 0"      10' 8"              21' 3"      18' 0"
80°             9' 0"       9' 2"               20' 4"      24' 0"
                 9' 6"       9' 8"               20' 5"      24' 0"
                 10' 0"      10' 3"              20' 6"      24' 0"
 
Note: This table pertains to a wall to wall situation. In calculating
dimensions, 2 feet may be subtracted from each stall depth for each overhang
and overlap provided that a minimum sidewalk width of 3 feet is maintained. No
subtraction for overlap is allowed for angles other than 90 degrees.
      (2)   Driveways and private roadway requirements.
         (a)   Two-way traffic: twenty four feet (24') minimum.
         (b)   One-way traffic: twenty foot (20') minimum, if for fire truck
access.
         (c)   Drive-up window lanes: fourteen feet (14') minimum, if for fire
truck access.
         (d)   All driveways shall have a minimum width of ten feet (10') with
pavement strength capable of supporting emergency and fire vehicles.
         (e)   All lots or parcels shall have direct adequate physical access
for emergency vehicles along the frontage of the lot or parcel from either an
existing dedicated public roadway or an existing private roadway approved by
the city.
   (E)   Joint parking requirements. Required parking facilities serving two or
more uses may be located on the same lot or in the same structure except in
residential zoned districts; provided, that the total number of parking spaces
furnished shall not be less than the total sum of the separate requirements for
each use during any peak hour parking period when the parking facility is used
at the same time by two or more uses. Conditions required for joint uses are:
      (1)   The proposed joint parking space is within 400 feet of the use it
will serve.
      (2)   The applicant shall demonstrate that there is not substantial
conflict in the principal operating hours of the two or more buildings or uses
for which joint use of off street parking facilities is proposed.
      (3)   A properly drawn legal instrument executed by the parties concerned
for joint use of off street parking facilities shall be filed as a deed
restriction on both properties in the county recorder’s office.
   (F)   Off site parking.
      (1)   Any off site parking which is used to meet the requirements of this
chapter may, as applicable, be allowed by a conditional use permit for long
term off site parking facilities or an interim use permit for short term
temporary off site parking facilities, and shall be subject to the conditions
of this section.
      (2)   Off site parking shall be developed and maintained in compliance
with all requirements and standards of this chapter.
      (3)   Reasonable access from off site parking facilities to the use being
served shall be provided.
      (4)   Except as allowed by a lease agreement approved by the city, the
site used for meeting the off street parking requirements shall be under the
same ownership as the principal use being served or under public ownership.
      (5)   Off site parking for multiple-family dwellings shall not be located
more than 250 feet from any normally used entrance of the principal use served.
      (6)   Off site parking for nonresidential uses shall not be located more
than 500 feet from the main public entrance of the principal use being served.
Off site parking located more than 500 feet from the main entrance may be
allowed with the provision of a private shuttle service.
      (7)   Any use which depends upon off site parking to meet the
requirements of this chapter shall maintain ownership and parking utilization
of the off site location until such time as on site parking is provided or a
site in closer proximity to the principal use is acquired and developed for
parking.
   (G)   Reduction in parking requirements. The city may allow reductions in
the number of required parking spaces to be installed under one or more of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The unique characteristics of the proposed use are such that it
will generate a need for less parking than the standard of this chapter; or
      (2)   All requests for reductions in the amount of required parking to be
installed shall be accompanied by a plan showing where the total required
parking spaces can be added on the lot, if necessary, up to the total amount
required by this chapter (meeting green area requirements) without requiring a
variance.
   (H)   Design, maintenance, and location of parking areas.
      (1)   Driveway access and curb cuts:
         (a)   Width: no driveway access or curb cut within the public right-
of-way shall be less than 12 feet in width or exceed the following widths:
            1.   Single-family residential dwellings: twenty-eight feet (28').
            2.   Multi-family residential buildings/complexes: thirty-two feet
(32').
            3.   Commercial/industrial: thirty-two feet (32').
            4.   Public/institutional: thirty-two feet (32').
            5.   All other uses: twenty-four feet (24').
         (b)   Number allowed. Each property shall be allowed one driveway
access or curb cut for each 125 feet of street frontage. All property shall be
entitled to at least one curb cut. Single-family uses shall be limited to one
driveway access or curb cut per property unless a right-of-way permit
application is submitted, paid according to the fee schedule, and approved by
the City Engineer, or his/her designee. The City Engineer shall grant such
permits subject to the following criteria:
            1.   The additional access is necessary to provide adequate on site
circulation.
            2.   The additional access shall create a minimum of conflict with
through traffic movement and shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
         (c)   Setbacks: curb cuts may not be placed closer than five feet to
any side or rear lot line unless approved by the City Engineer or his/her
designee.
         (d)   County roads. Curb cuts onto county roads shall be referenced to
the Rice County Highway Department.
         (e)   Sensitive areas. Curb cuts to principal structures which
traverse wooded, steep, or open field areas shall be constructed and maintained
to a width and base material depth sufficient to support access by emergency
vehicles as determined by the City Engineer or his/her designee.
      (2)   Signs. Signs shall not be located in a parking area except as
necessary for disability accessibility and for the orderly operation of traffic
movement. Such signs shall not be a part of the permitted advertising space.
      (3)   Curbing. All open off street parking shall have a perimeter
concrete curb barrier around the entire parking lot. Exceptions: 1) residential
single-family, two-family, townhouse dwellings; or 2) special parking
situations approved by the City Engineer or his/her designee.
      (4)   Striping. Except for single-family, two-family, and townhouse
dwellings, all parking stalls shall be marked with white or yellow painted
lines not less than four inches wide.
      (5)   Surfacing. All parking spaces and driveways shall be surfaced with
concrete, bituminous/asphalt, or pavers. Exceptions: 1) surfaces allowed per
City Code §
153.007; or 2) special parking situations approved by the City Engineer or his/
her designee. Other materials such as decorative rock, gravel, sand, or bare
soil are prohibited. This requirement also applies to open sales lots, open
rental lots, and outdoor storage or display areas. All driveways and parking
areas shall be regularly maintained to prevent grass/weed growth, surface
deterioration, and edging damage.
      (6)   Lighting. Lighting in an off street parking area shall be shaded or
diffused so as to reflect the light away from adjoining property and adjacent
traffic areas. All light fixtures shall be a downcast style.
      (7)   Maintenance of off street parking areas. It shall be the joint
responsibility of the operator and owner of the principal use, uses and/or
building to maintain, in a neat and adequate manner, the parking space,
accessways, landscaping and required fencing.
      (8)   Location. All accessory off street parking facilities and areas
shall be located as follows:
         (a)   Spaces accessory to one- and two-family dwellings shall be on
the same lot as the principal use served unless guest parking is provided
elsewhere;
         (b)   There shall be no off street parking space within five feet of
any property line. Exceptions: 1) Setbacks allowed per City Code §
153.077; 2) properties having zero lot line setbacks, shared access, and/or
joint parking; or 3) special parking situations approved by the City Engineer
or his/her designee;
         (c)   When parking stalls abut a sidewalk, the minimum sidewalk width
shall be six feet;
         (d)   Parking stalls shall not be located where they obstruct
doorways, driveways, or pedestrian walkways; and
         (e)   All disability accessible stalls shall be located in close
proximity to entrance areas and shall not be hindered by inappropriately
located curb cuts, catch basins, and the like.
   (I)   Miscellaneous parking restrictions and prohibitions.
      (1)   Parking and storage of unlicensed vehicles. Automotive vehicles
(operative or inoperative) or trailers that are of any kind or type without
current license plates shall not be parked or stored on any residentially zoned
property other than in completely enclosed buildings.
      (2)   Use of parking area. Required off street parking spaces in all
districts shall not be used for open storage, or sale of goods, or for the
storage of vehicles which are inoperable, for lease, rent or sale, or for the
stockpiling of snow.
      (3)   Parking and storage of recreational vehicles. The parking and
storage of recreational vehicles shall be regulated in accordance with §
153.077.
   (J)   Number of parking spaces required.
Uses Required Number of Parking Spaces
Uses           Required Number of Parking Spaces
Commercial:
Automobile
repair
(associated    2 for each service stall, plus motor fuel requirements
with motor
fuel station)
Automobile     At least 2, plus 4 for each service stall
repair, major
Automobile     1 per 200 square feet of floor area
repair, minor
Automobile     1 per 500 square feet of showroom, plus 1 for each 3,000 square feet of
sales          outdoor sales lot
Bank           1 for each 300 square feet of floor area, plus 5 stacking spaces for each
               drive-up window
Bar, tavern,   At least 1 per 3 patron seats, plus 1 per employee on the largest work shift
nightclub
Beauty shop or 2 per chair, plus 1 per employee on the largest work shift
barbershop
Boarding house At least 1 for each person for whom accommodations are provided for sleeping
Bowling alley  5 for each alley, plus additional spaces as may be required herein for related
               uses contained within the principal structure
Car wash
(accessory to  4 off street stacking spaces per drive-through car wash. The bay inside the
motor fuel     car wash shall not be considered a stacking space
station)
Car wash
(drive-        A minimum of 10 or 1 for each employee on the maximum shift, whichever is
through) as    greater
principal use
Community
center,        10, plus 1 for each 150 square feet in excess of 2,000 square feet of floor
private club,  area in the principal structure
lodge, museum,
art gallery
Convenience    1 per 100 square feet of floor area. Parking areas at pump islands may be
grocery        counted as parking spaces
               1 per exercise station (e.g., strength machine or cardiovascular), plus 1 per
Fitness center employee on the largest work shift, plus additional parking spaces required
               for ancillary uses
Funeral home   20 per chapel or parlor, plus 1 for each company vehicle maintained on site.
               Adequate stacking space shall also be provided for staging funeral processions
Grocery or     1 per 100 square feet of floor area of customer sales and service, plus 1 per
supermarket    200 square feet of floor area of storage
               At least 1 for each dwelling unit or lodging room, plus 1 additional for each
Hotel or motel 8 units. Additional spaces shall be required for liquor or restaurant
               facilities
Instructional
studio (dance,
karate, music, 1 for each 200 square feet of floor area
and similar
uses)
Laundromat     ½ per machine
Ministorage    2 per dwelling unit or employee area, plus 1 per 6,000 square feet of indoor
               storage area
Motor fuel     1 per pump, plus 1 per employee on the largest work shift. With convenience
station        grocery, include 1 per 100 square feet of floor area. Parking areas at pump
               islands may be counted as parking spaces
Outdoor
storage and/or 1 per 2,000 square feet of outdoor storage or display area in addition to the
display of     total parking required on the site for the individual use
retail
merchandise
Pool hall and  1 per 4 patrons at the maximum occupancy load of the facility, plus 1 per
arcade         employee on the largest work shift, plus 1 per 100 square feet of kitchen,
               dining, or snack bar area
Religious      1 for each 3 seats, based upon maximum design capacity, plus additional spaces
institution,   as may be required herein for related uses contained within the principal
theater,       structure
auditorium
Restaurant     1 per 50 square feet of floor area, plus 1 per employee on the largest work
(fast food)    shift
Restaurant
(sit down)
including      5 per 1,000 square feet of floor area
outdoor
seating
Restaurant,
take out (no   1 per 100 square feet of floor area
seating)
Retail sales
and multiple
occupancy      1 per 250 square feet of floor area and outdoor sales space
retail service
building
Retail sales/  1 per 200 square feet of floor area of retail space and 1 per 500 square feet
service and    of storage area
storage
Industrial:
               A minimum of 1 per employee on the largest work shift, plus 1 per company
Industrial     vehicle regularly stored on premises, plus additional spaces that may be
               required depending upon the specific use
Manufacturing,
fabricating or 1 per 1,000 square feet of floor area, plus 1 for each company owned truck (if
processing of  not stored inside the principal structure)
a product
Manufacturing, 1 per 350 square feet of floor area, plus 1 per company vehicle not stored
office         within the principal structure
Warehouse:
Office area    1 per 200 square feet of office area
Warehouse area 1 per 1,000 square feet of floor area, plus 1 per company vehicle not stored
               within the principal structure
Institutional:
Cemetery       1 per employee
Church         1 per 3 seats of maximum capacity
Community      1 per 250 square feet of floor area, or 1 per 4 patrons at the maximum
recreation     occupancy load, whichever is greater, plus 1 per employee on the largest work
center         shift
Hospital       2 per 3 patient beds, plus 1 per employee on the largest work shift
Library        1 per 250 square feet of floor area or 1 per 4 seats at the maximum occupancy
               load, whichever is greater, plus 1 per employee on the largest work shift
School,        1 per staff member on the largest work shift, plus 1 per 2 students of the
college or     largest class attendance period
trade
School,
elementary and 1 per 7 students based upon building design
junior high
School, high
school and
post-high      1 per 3 students based upon building design capacity, plus 1 per classroom
school
facilities
Office:
Medical,
dental, or
chiropractic   5 per doctor or dentist, plus 1 for each employee on the largest work shift
office or
clinic
Office
(business and  1 for each 400 square feet of floor space
professional)
Veterinary
office (with   3 per doctor, plus 1 per employee on the largest work shift
or without
kennels)
Recreational:
Athletic field
(private or    1 per 8 seats of design capacity
private
nonprofit)
Athletic
stadium/
auditorium/    1 per 4 seats
indoor sports
area
               4 per hole, plus 50 percent of the requirements for any other associated use,
Golf course    except in planned residential, resort, or commercial developments, which have
               otherwise adequate provisions for parking
Golf driving
range,
miniature      10, plus 1 for each 100 square feet of floor area
golf, archery
range
Skating rink,  1 per 300 square feet of floor area, plus 1 per employee on largest work shift
ice or roller
Tennis,
racquet,       4 per court, plus 1 per employee on the largest work shift
handball court
 Residential:
Assisted
living         ½ per unit
facility
Daycare        1 per teacher/employee on the largest work shift, plus 1 off street loading
nursery        space per 6 students
Elderly
(senior
citizen)       1 per unit; ½ of required stalls may be provided at initial development for
housing (uses  projects with occupancy restricted to persons age 55 and older. The
with occupancy development shall include a proof of parking area sufficient to meet the
limited to     parking requirements
persons age 55
and over)
Group home     1 per sleeping room or 1 for every 4 beds
(dwelling)
Manufactured   2 per manufactured home (a minimum of 1 shall be enclosed)
home
Multiple-
family         1 ½ for each efficiency and 1-bedroom unit and 21/4 for units with 2 or more
(apartment)    bedrooms. A minimum of 1 of the required parking spaces per unit shall be an
dwelling (see  enclosed garage space. A land area requirement credit of 300 square feet
also Multiple- toward the satisfaction of lot area requirements shall be given for each
family guest   garage under the principal building
parking
herein)
Multiple-      ½ per townhouse or apartment unit, distributed throughout the development, in
family guest   addition to the required parking per unit
parking
Nursing home
other than
assisted       1 per 6 patient beds, plus 1 per employee on the largest work shift
living
facility
One- and two-  A 440 square foot attached garage shall be constructed at the same time as the
family         principal structure. For lots of record established after the effective date
residence      hereof, all site plans for single-family homes shall provide for the location
               of a 3 stall attached garage, whether or not construction is intended
Townhome
dwelling unit  Each dwelling unit shall have an attached garage with a minimum of 2 garage
(see also      spaces and 2 driveway spaces per unit. The minimum garage shall be 220 square
Multiple-      feet for dwellings with basements and 540 square feet for dwellings without
family guest   basements. Garages shall be a minimum of 20 feet in width
parking
herein)
Uses not       The parking requirement for a use not specifically mentioned herein shall be
listed         the same as required for a similar use as determined by the Zoning
               Administrator
 
   (K)   Additional off street loading requirements.
      (1)   Any of the following uses with a gross floor area of 6,000 square
feet or more which requires deliveries or shipments shall provide off street
loading facilities in accordance with the requirements specified below unless a
conditional use permit is granted:
         (a)   Every retail establishment, industrial or manufacturing use,
warehouse, or wholesale use having a gross floor area of 6,000 square feet or
more shall provide off street loading facilities/areas as follows:
 
Gross Floor Area In Square Feet           Number Of Loading Spaces
6,000 - 24,999                            1
25,000 - 74,999                           2
75,000- 150,000                           3
For each additional 100,000 square feet   1 additional off street loading space
(or fraction thereof) of gross floor area shall be provided
 
         (b)   Every public assembly use, such as auditoriums, convention
halls, exhibition halls, stadiums or sports arenas, with a gross floor area of
greater than 100,000 square feet shall be provided a minimum of one off street
loading space.
         (c)   Funeral homes, restaurants and hotels with a gross floor area of
greater than 30,000 square feet and offices with a gross floor area of 100,000
square feet or more shall provide a minimum of one off street loading space.
      (2)   Minimum size. Off street loading spaces shall be at least ten feet
by 25 feet (10' x 25'), excluding area for maneuvering vehicles.
      (3)   Location.
         (a)   At no time shall any part of a truck or van be allowed to extend
into the right of way of a public street or alley while the truck or van is
being loaded or unloaded.
         (b)   Any commercial/industrial off street spaces shall be located at
least 100 feet from any residential district.
         (c)   All loading spaces shall be located in side or rear yard.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2017-275, passed 4-13-2017; Am. Ord. 2022-310,
passed 3-31- 2022)
§ 153.079 SIGNS.
   (A)   Findings. The City Council hereby finds as follows:
      (1)   Exterior signs have a substantial impact on the character and
quality of the environment.
      (2)   Signs provide an important medium through which individuals may
convey a variety of messages.
      (3)   Signs can create traffic hazards, aesthetic concerns and detriments
to property values, thereby threatening the public health, safety and welfare.
      (4)   Over the years the city's zoning regulations have included the
regulation of signs in an effort to provide adequate means of expression and to
promote the economic viability of the business community, while protecting the
city and its citizens from a proliferation of signs of a type, size, location
and character that would adversely impact the aesthetics of the community and
threaten the health, safety and welfare of the community. The regulation and
enforcement of the physical characteristics of signs within the city has had a
positive impact on traffic safety and the appearance of the community.
   (B)   Purpose and intent. It is not the purpose nor the intent of this sign
section to regulate the message displayed on any sign; nor is it the purpose or
intent of this section to regulate any building design or any display not
defined as a sign, or any sign which cannot be viewed from outside a building.
The purpose and intent of this section is to:
      (1)   Regulate the number, location, size, type, illumination and other
physical characteristics of signs within the city in order to promote the
public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   Maintain, enhance and improve the aesthetic environment of the city
by preventing visual clutter that is harmful to the appearance of the
community.
      (3)   Improve the visual appearance of the city while providing for
effective means of communication, consistent with constitutional guarantees and
the city's goals of public safety and aesthetics.
      (4)   Provide for fair and consistent enforcement of the sign regulations
set forth herein under the zoning authority of the city.
      (5)   Provide for the safety of the traveling public by limiting
distractions, hazards and obstructions.
      (6)   Provide for adequate expression of ideas.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purposes of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED SIGN.  Any sign and/or its supporting sign structure which
remains without a message or whose display surface remains blank for a period
of one year or more, or any sign which pertains to a time, event or purpose
which no longer applies, shall be deemed to have been abandoned. Signs
applicable to a business temporarily suspended because of a change in ownership
or management of such business shall not be deemed abandoned unless the
property remains vacant for a period of one year or more. Any sign remaining
after demolition of a principal structure shall be deemed to be abandoned.
Signs which are present because of being legally established nonconforming
signs or signs which have required a conditional use permit or a variance shall
also be subject to the definition of ABANDONED SIGN.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator of the City of Lonsdale or his or
her designee. The person designated by the City Council to administer this
subchapter.
      AWNING. A roof-like cover, often of fabric, plastic, metal or glass
designed and intended for protection from the weather or as a decorative
embellishment, and which projects from a wall or roof of a structure primarily
over a window, walk, or the like. Any part of an awning which also projects
over a door shall be counted as an AWNING.
      AWNING SIGN. A building sign or graphic printed on or in some fashion
attached directly to the awning material.
      BALLOON SIGN. A sign consisting of a bag made of lightweight material
supported by helium, hot, or pressurized air which is greater than 24 inches in
diameter.
      BILLBOARD. A flat surface or board greater than 32 square feet, usually
placed outdoors along major corridors or on the sides of buildings, on which
advertisements or notices are posted.
      BLADE SIGN. Any freestanding sign with its sign face mounted on the
ground or mounted on a base which has a height exceeding its width.
      BUILDING SIGN. Any sign attached to or supported by any structure used or
intended for supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy.
      CABINET SIGN. Any wall sign that is not of channel or individually
mounted letter construction.
      CANOPY. A roof-like cover, often of fabric, plastic, metal, or glass on a
support, which provides shelter over a doorway.
      CANOPY SIGN. Any sign that is part of or attached to a canopy, made of
fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door or entrance. A
CANOPY SIGN is not a marquee and is different from service area canopy signs.
      CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters,
or illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or
the surface of the sign. CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS do not include signs upon which
characters, letters or illustrations change or rearrange only once in a 24-hour
period.
      COMMERCIAL SPEECH. Speech advertising a business, profession, commodity,
service or entertainment.
      DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign designed to provide direction to pedestrian and
vehicular traffic.
      DYNAMIC BILLBOARD SIGN. A motion sign or a digital flat panel/screen
motion sign greater than 32 square feet on which outdoor advertisements or
notices are displayed.
      DYNAMIC SIGN. A motion sign or a digital flat panel/screen that can
display video or other moving images. Said sign shall not exceed 32 square feet
per surface with a maximum of two surfaces.
      ELECTRONIC VARIABLE MESSAGE. A sign that uses electronics or mechanics to
vary the visual word, number, or symbolic display. Said signs shall not exceed
32 square feet per surface with a maximum of two surfaces.
      ELEVATION. The view of the side, front, or rear of a given structure(s).
      ELEVATION AREA. The area of all walls that face any lot line.
      ERECT. Activity of constructing, building, raising, assembling, placing,
affixing, attaching, creating, painting, drawing or any other way of bringing
into being or establishing.
      FLAG. Any fabric or similar lightweight material attached at one end of
the material, usually to a staff or pole, so as to allow movement of the
material by atmospheric changes and which contains distinctive colors,
patterns, symbols, emblems, insignia, or other symbolic devices.
      FLASHING SIGN. A directly or indirectly illuminated sign which exhibits
changing light or color effect by any means, so as to provide intermittent
illumination which includes the illusion of intermittent flashing light by
means of animation. Also any mode of lighting which resembles zooming,
twinkling, or sparkling.
      FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign which has supporting framework that is placed
on, or anchored in, the ground and which is independent from any building or
other structure.
      GROUND SIGN. Any freestanding sign with its sign face mounted on the
ground or mounted on a base at least as wide as the sign and which has a total
height not exceeding eight feet.
      HEIGHT OF SIGN. The height of the sign shall be computed as the vertical
distance measured from the base of the sign at grade to the top of the highest
attached component of the sign.
      ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which contains an element designed to emanate
artificial light internally or externally.
      INTERIOR SIGN. A sign which is located within the interior of any
building, or within an enclosed lobby or court of any building, and a sign for
and located within the inner or outer body, court or entrance of any theater.
      ISSUING AUTHORITY. City of Lonsdale.
      LEGALLY ESTABLISHED NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign and its support
structure lawfully erected prior to the effective date of this subchapter which
fails to conform to the requirements of this subchapter. A sign which was
erected in accordance with a variance granted prior to the adoption of this
subchapter and which does not comply with this subchapter shall be deemed to be
a legal nonconforming sign. A sign which was unlawfully erected shall be deemed
to be an illegal sign.
      MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building
or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of that building, generally
designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
      MARQUEE SIGN. Any building sign painted, mounted, constructed or attached
in any manner, on a marquee.
      MONUMENT SIGN. Any freestanding sign with its sign face mounted on the
ground or mounted on a base at least as wide as the sign and which has a height
exceeding eight feet.
      MULTIPLE TENANT SITE. Any commercial or industrial site, building, or
complex which has more than one tenant.
      NON-COMMERCIAL SPEECH. Dissemination of messages not classified as
Commercial Speech which include, but are not limited to, messages concerning
political, religious, social, ideological, public service and informational
topics.
      OFF-PREMISE SIGN. A commercial speech sign which directs the attention of
the public to a business, activity conducted, or product sold or offered at a
location not on the same premises where such business sign is located.
      ON-PREMISE MESSAGES. Identify or advertise an establishment, person,
activity, goods, products or services located on the premises where the sign is
installed.
      PARAPET (WALL). That portion of building wall that rises above the roof
level.
      POLE SIGN. See Pylon Sign.
      PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign which is manifestly designed to be transported,
including by trailer or on its own wheels, even though the wheels of such sign
may be removed and the remaining chassis or support is converted to another
sign or attached temporarily or permanently to the ground since this
characteristic is based on the design of such a sign.
      PORTE COHERE. A roofed structure or roof-like cover, extending from the
entrance of a building and which provides shelter over a doorway.
      PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign which is affixed to a building or wall in such
a manner that its leading edge extends more than two feet beyond the surface or
such building or wall face.
      PROPERTY OWNER. Legal owner of property as officially recorded by Rice
County.
      PUBLIC NOTICES. Official notices posted by public officers, employees or
their agents in the performance of their duties, or as directed by such
officers, employees or agents.
      PYLON SIGN. Any freestanding sign which has its supportive structure(s)
anchored in the ground and which has a sign face elevated above ground level by
pole(s) or beam(s) and with the area below the sign face open.
      READER BOARD SIGN. A sign on which copy is designated so that it can be
changed manually. This may include but is not limited to a panel on which
individual letters or pictorials are mounted, or displayed.
      RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Any district zoned for residential uses.
      ROOF. The exterior surface and its supporting structure on the top of a
building or structure. The structural make-up of which conforms to the roof
structures, roof construction and roof covering sections of the Uniform
Building Code.
      ROOF LINE. The upper-most edge of the roof or in the case of an extended
facade or parapet, the upper-most height of said facade.
      ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and above the roof
of a building, supported by the roof structure, and extending vertically above
the highest portion of the roof.
      ROOF SIGN, INTEGRAL. Any building sign erected or constructed as an
integral or essentially integral part of a normal roof structure of any design,
so that no part of the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the
roof and so that no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by
a space of more than six inches.
      ROTATING SIGN. A sign or portion of a sign which turns about on an axis.
      SANDWICH BOARD SIGN. A freestanding temporary sign, with no moving parts
or flashing lights, no larger than eight square feet total sign size per side
(no taller than four feet from grade); displayed outside an establishment
during business hours. It is not intended as permanent business signage.
      SHIMMERING SIGNS. A sign which reflects an oscillating sometimes
distorted visual image.
      SIGN. Any letter, word or symbol, poster, picture, statuary, reading
matter or representation in the nature of advertisement, announcement, message
or visual communication, whether painted, posted, printed, affixed or
constructed, including all associated brackets, braces, supports, wires and
structures, which is displayed for informational or communicative purposes.
      SIGN FACE. The surface of the sign upon, against, or through which the
message of the sign is exhibited.
      SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure including the supports, uprights, bracing
and framework which supports or is capable of supporting any sign.
      STRINGER. A line of string, rope, cording, or an equivalent to which is
attached a number of pennants.
      SUSPENDED SIGN. Any building sign that is suspended from the underside of
a horizontal plane surface and is connected to this surface.
      TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign, balloon, banner, blimp, flag, free-standing
sign, pennant, poster, reader board, or advertising display which is intended
to be displayed for a limited period of time. Signs other than temporary signs
shall be considered permanent signs.
      TOTAL SITE SIGNAGE. The maximum permitted combined area of all
freestanding and wall identification signs allowed on a specific property.
      VISIBLE. Capable of being seen by a person of normal visual acuity
(whether legible or not) without visual aid.
      WALL. Any structure which defines the exterior boundaries or courts of a
building or structure and which has a slope of 60 degrees or greater with the
horizontal plane.
      WALL SIGN. Any building sign attached parallel to, but within two feet of
a wall, painted on the wall surface of, or erected and confined within the
limits of an outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by
such wall or building, and which displays only one sign surface.
      WINDOW SIGN. Any building sign, pictures, symbol, or combination thereof,
designed to communicate information about an activity, business, commodity,
event, sale, or service, that is placed inside a window or upon the window
panes or glass and is visible from the exterior of the window.
   (D)   Permit required.  
      (1)   No sign shall be erected, altered, reconstructed, maintained or
moved in the city without first securing a permit from the city. The content of
the sign shall not be reviewed or considered in determining whether to approve
or deny a sign permit. Application for a permit shall be in writing addressed
to the issuing authority and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Names and addresses of the owners of the display structure and
property;
         (b)   The address at which any signs are to be erected;
         (c)   The lot, block and addition at which the signs are to be erected
and the street on which they are to front;
         (d)   A complete set of colored plans showing the necessary
elevations, distances, size and details to fully and clearly represent the
construction and place of the signs;
         (e)   The market value of the sign;
         (f)   Type of sign (such as building sign, monument sign, and the
like);
         (g)   Certification by applicant indicating the application complies
with all requirements of the sign subchapter;
         (h)   If the proposed sign is within federal, state, or county right-
of-way, the application shall be accompanied by proof that the applicant has
obtained a permit from the state for the sign; and
         (i)   Such other information as the Administrator shall require to
show full compliance with this subchapter and all other laws and ordinances of
the city.
      (2)   The application is not complete until all of the foregoing
information is provided along with the payment of all applicable fees. It shall
be the duty of the Administrator or his or her designee, upon the filing of an
application for a permit, to examine such plans, specifications and other data
and the premises upon which it is proposed to erect the sign. If it appears
that the proposed sign is in compliance with all the requirements of this
subchapter and all other laws and ordinances of the city, the permit shall be
issued. An applicant can appeal a denial of the sign permit to the City
Council.
   (E)   Exemptions. The following signs shall not require a permit. These
exemptions, however, shall not be construed as relieving the owner of the sign
from the responsibility of its erection and maintenance and its compliance with
the provisions of this section or any other law or ordinance regulating the
same.
      (1)   Signs erected by authorized governmental agencies.
      (2)   The changing of the display surface on a painted, printed, or
changeable copy sign/reader board signs only.
      (3)   Signs six square feet or less in size per surface as permitted in
this section.
      (4)   Window signage as permitted in the general standards.
      (5)   Temporary and portable signage as permitted in this section.
   (F)   Sign area calculations.
      (1)   The area of a sign shall be computed by means of the smallest
circle, rectangle or triangle that will encompass the extreme limits of the
writing, representation, emblem, or other display, together with any material
of color forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the space around the sign or building face against
which it is placed, but not including any supporting framework, pole, or
bracing. Unless specified in this subchapter, each surface utilized to display
a message or to attract attention shall be measured as a separate sign and
shall be calculated in the overall sign area. Symbols, flags, pictures,
wording, figures or other forms of graphics painted on or attached to windows,
walls, awnings, free-standing structures, suspended by balloons, or kites or on
persons, or animals are considered a sign and are included in calculating the
overall sign area.
      (2)   For monument, ground, and blade signs, the method in the previous
section shall be used. Only the face that is specifically intended to be used
for signage shall be included when computing the sign area. Any base or other
supporting structure, along with all adjoining structures such as fences or
walls shall not be included when computing the sign area.
   (G)   Fees. Sign permit fees shall be established by ordinance.
   (H)   Violations. Violation of this section is a misdemeanor. Each day that
the violation continues is a separate offense.
   (I)   Maintenance; inspections.
      (1)   Maintenance.  All signs, together with all their supports, braces,
guys, and anchors, shall be kept in repair and in proper state of preservation.
The display surfaces of all signs shall be kept neatly painted or posted at all
times. Every sign and the immediate surrounding premises shall be maintained by
the owner or person in charge thereof in a clean, sanitary, and inoffensive
condition and free and clear of all obnoxious substances, rubbish, and weeds.
Notice shall be given to the administrator of any change in the sign user, sign
owner or owner of the property on which the sign is located.
      (2)   Inspection.  All signs for which a permit is required shall be
subject to inspection by the administrator and his/her designee. The
administrator or his or her designee is authorized to enter upon any property
or premises to ascertain compliance with this subchapter. Such entrance shall
be made during business hours unless an emergency exists. The administrator may
order the removal of any sign that is not maintained in accordance with the
maintenance provisions of this section.
   (J)   Sign removal.
      (1)   Any sign legally existing at the time of the passage of this
section that does not conform to the provisions of this section shall be
considered a legal nonconforming sign and may be continued through repair,
replacement, restoration, maintenance or improvement but not including
expansion. "Expansion" shall be defined as any structural alteration, change or
addition that is made outside of the original sign structure, sign area, or
design.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the return of a sign
structure that has been declared unsafe by the city's Building Inspector to a
safe condition.
      (3)   When any legal nonconforming sign is discontinued for a period of
more than one year or is changed to a conforming sign, any future sign shall be
in conformity with the provisions of this subchapter. Any legal nonconforming
sign shall be removed and shall not be repaired, replaced, or rebuilt if it is
damaged by fire or similar peril to the extent of greater than 50% of its
market value at the time of destruction and no sign permit or building permit
has been applied for within 180 days of the date of destruction. The city’s
Building Inspector shall be responsible for making the determination of whether
a nonconforming sign has been destroyed greater than 50% at the time of
destruction. In making the determination the Building Inspector shall consider
the market value of the entire sign at the time prior to the destruction and
the replacement value of the existing sign. In the event that a building permit
or sign permit is applied for within 180 days of the date of destruction, the
city may impose reasonable conditions upon the building permit in order to
mitigate any newly created impact on adjacent properties.
   (K)   Prohibited signs.
      (1)   Signs exceeding 250 square feet in area.
      (2)   Signs within the sight triangle. No sign, except for authorized
signs, shall be erected within a corner lot sight triangle so that clear
visibility of approaching vehicular or pedestrian traffic can be maintained.
Such sight triangle means that triangular area defined as follows: beginning at
the point of intersection of the right-of-way of two intersecting streets,
thence 30 feet along one right-of-way line, thence diagonally to a point on the
other right of way line 30 feet from the point of beginning, thence to the
point of beginning. Exception: signs within the Central and Limited Business
Zoning District may erect signage within the sight triangle that does not
obstruct a driver's view or hamper pedestrian traffic.
      (3)   Signs within the city right-of-way, easements or publicly owned
land. Exception: signs posted by authorized government officials, signs
approved by the City Council, sandwich board signs located within the Central
and Limited Business Districts, temporary signs per subsection (O), and
projecting signs per subsection (L).
      (4)   Off-premise signs. Exception: signs posted by authorized government
officials, signs approved by the City Council, sandwich board signs located
within the Central and Limited Business Districts, and temporary signs per
subsection (O).
      (5)   Billboard and dynamic billboard signs.
      (6)   Signs interfering, by reason of position, shape or color, in any
way with the proper functioning or purpose of a traffic sign or signal.
      (7)   Signs that are painted, attached, or in any manner affixed to
trees, utility posts, or other similar supports.
      (8)   Signs attached to or placed upon a building in such a manner that
obstructs any window or door for fire escape.
   (L)   General standards. Signs are a permitted accessory use in all
districts subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   Sign permits are required for all signs unless otherwise stated in
this section. The fee for sign permits shall be established by Council
subchapter. All signs shall conform to the requirements of this section whether
or not a sign permit is required. All signs shall be constructed in a matter
and of such material that they shall be safe and substantial. All signs shall
be properly secured, supported and braced and shall be kept in good repair so
that public safety and traffic safety are not compromised.
      (2)   Non-commercial speech signs. Notwithstanding any other provisions
of this sign section, all signs of any size containing non-commercial speech
may be posted from August 1 in any general election year until ten days
following the general election and 13 weeks prior to any special election until
ten days following the special election. One non-commercial speech sign is
allowed on each lot outside of the above specified time period on all
properties.
      (3)   Substitution clause. The owner of any sign which is otherwise
allowed by this sign section may substitute non-commercial speech signs in lieu
of any other commercial speech sign or other non-commercial speech sign. The
purpose of this provision is to prevent any inadvertent favoring of commercial
speech over non-commercial speech, or favoring of any particular non-commercial
speech over any other non-commercial speech. This provision prevails over any
more specific provision to the contrary.
      (4)   Every home or structure having an official address shall display an
address sign that is visible from the street. Address signs shall follow the
requirements stated in §
150.03. Address signs shall not count towards the overall permitted signage on
a building.
      (5)   Signs may be illuminated. Symbols, statues, sculptures, and
integrated architectural features on buildings may also be illuminated.
Illuminated signs shall be subject to the electrical requirements of the
Electrical Code of the State of Minnesota. Illuminated signs shall have a
shielded light source. Where a sign is illuminated, the beam of light shall not
shine directly upon any part of a residence or into the street.
      (6)   The owner of any sign located within city right-of-way shall be
liable for any related bodily injury or property damage caused by the sign or
sign's location and shall indemnify and save harmless the city its agents and
representatives from any and all loss or damages.
      (7)   Freestanding signs shall be set back at least ten feet from the
property line, except freestanding signs within the Central and Limited
Business Zoning District shall be set back at least two feet from the property
line. Freestanding signs shall not encroach into a drainage or utility easement
unless an easement agreement is approved by the City Administrator.
      (8)   Building signs shall only be located on the principal building on
the lot.
      (9)   Projecting signs. Wall signs shall be considered building signs and
may project up to two feet away from the wall. Canopies, awnings, and marquees
shall be considered an integral part of the structure to which they are
attached. If signs are attached to a canopy, awning, or marquee, the canopy,
awning or marquee shall be considered a part of the wall area used. Canopies,
marquees, and awnings shall not project greater than five feet away from the
wall. Projecting signs shall maintain a ground clearance of at least ten feet.
      (10)   Window signage is permitted and shall be counted towards the
overall permitted signage on a building. The total window area on a building
between ground level and a height of eight feet shall not exceed 75% window
coverage.
      (11)   Up to four flags may be displayed upon a lot. Each flag may not
exceed 100 square feet in size per surface, with a maximum of two surfaces.
      (12)   Any additional, unique or other signage not stated in this section
shall require City Council approval.
   (M)   Signs permitted in residential districts.
      (1)   Individual dwelling units (not part of a dwelling group of six or
more units). One wall and/or freestanding sign for each dwelling not to exceed
two and one-half square feet per surface. Said freestanding sign shall not
exceed four feet in height above average grade level. No sign shall be so
constructed as to have more than two surfaces.
      (2)   Dwelling group of six or more units. One wall and/or freestanding
sign for each dwelling group of six or more units not to exceed 12 square feet
per surface. Said freestanding sign shall not exceed six feet in height above
average grade level. No sign shall be so constructed as to have more than two
surfaces.
      (3)   One wall and/or freestanding sign not to exceed 32 square feet per
surface for permitted non-residential uses or use by conditional use permit.
Said freestanding sign shall not exceed ten feet in height above average grade
level. No sign shall be so constructed as to have more than two surfaces.
      (4)   One freestanding residential development/neighborhood
identification sign per entrance. Said sign shall not exceed 75 square feet.
      (5)   One building and/or freestanding sign per entrance for schools and
churches/places of worship. Said sign shall not exceed 75 square feet.
      (6)   Temporary signs per subsection (O).
      (7)   Park and playground signs.
   (N)   Signs permitted in commercial/business and industrial districts.
      (1)   One freestanding sign per street frontage per lot or multi-tenant
site.
         (a)   Type. Monument, blade, ground, double pole sign, multi-tenant
signs.
         (b)   Size. Freestanding signs shall not exceed 150 square feet per
surface, except signs within the Central and Limited Business Districts shall
not exceed 50 square feet.
         (c)   Height. Freestanding signs shall not exceed 30 feet from average
grade, except signs within the Central and Limited Business Districts shall not
exceed 15 feet from average grade.
         (d)   Design. All freestanding signs shall be constructed of at least
50% brick (or brick veneer), stone (or stone veneer), pre-cast concrete, rock-
faced block or other similar masonry.
      (2)   One building sign per wall per street frontage.
         (a)   Type. Wall, window, projecting, canopy, awning, marquee and
multi-tenant signs.
         (b)   Size. Sign area is limited to 30% of the building face.
         (c)   Height. Building signs shall not extend more than two feet above
the highest outside wall or parapet of any principal building.
         (d)   Multi-tenant signs. Each tenant within a multi-tenant site may
erect a building sign limited to 30% of its wall.
      (3)   One electronic variable message sign or dynamic sign per street
frontage. Such signs shall be integrated into the design of the free-standing
sign or building.
      (4)   One permanent reader board/changeable copy sign per street
frontage. Said signs shall not exceed 32 square feet per surface with a maximum
of two surfaces. Such signs shall be integrated into the design of the free-
standing sign or building.
      (5)   Fuel service stations may have one fuel canopy sign located upon
the canopy per canopy side not exceeding 30% in size.
      (6)   Drive-through restaurant menu signage shall be approved by the City
Administrator.
      (7)   Temporary signs per subsection (O).
   (O)   Temporary and portable signs.
      (1)   Temporary and portable signage is allowed over and above the
typical signage limit allowed on a property for permanent signage. Under no
circumstances shall temporary and portable signs be used in place of permanent
signage.
      (2)   All temporary and portable signs shall be kept in good repair and
not create visual clutter.
      (3)   No more than four temporary and/or portable signs shall be allowed
per lot within business and industrial districts. Temporary and portable signs
shall not exceed 32 square feet in size per surface with a maximum of two
surfaces.
      (4)   All temporary and portable signs shall meet federal and state
regulations.
      (5)   Sandwich board signs.
         (a)   Sandwich board signs shall be allowed in all zoning districts
within the city, except that in residential districts sandwich board signs will
be permitted only for non-residential uses and uses by conditional use permit.
         (b)   There shall be only one sandwich board sign allowed for each
entity.
         (c)   Sandwich board signs shall be considered temporary signage.
         (d)   Sandwich board signs shall not exceed eight square feet in size
per surface area with a maximum of two surfaces.
         (e)   Bordering property owners may place a sandwich board sign on a
public sidewalk or within the public right-of-way directly next to their
property. If placed on a sidewalk, a sandwich board sign shall not take up more
than two feet of sidewalk width and shall not be placed in the middle of the
sidewalk. Said signs shall not be located in the roadway or interfere with
vehicular or pedestrian circulation or visibility.
         (f)   Sandwich board signs may be removed by the city if they
interfere with any city or neighboring activities (such as snow removal,
maintenance of the surrounding area, and the like).
         (g)   Public sidewalk sandwich board signs shall be displayed only
during the times that the entity is open. No public sidewalk sandwich board
sign shall be displayed overnight or when there has been any snow accumulation.
         (h)   Sandwich board signs shall be weighed down.
         (i)   Sandwich board signs that do not comply with the regulations
stated above may be removed and disposed of by the city.
      (6)   Garage sale, rummage sale, and yard sale signs.
         (a)   No more than one on-premise sign is permitted per sale event. No
more than two off-premise directional signs are permitted per sale event.
         (b)   Size. Signs shall not exceed six square feet per side with a
maximum of two sides per sign.
         (c)   Location. On-premise signs shall be located entirely on the
property of the sale (typically about ten feet from the back of curb). All
signs shall not interfere with vehicular or pedestrian circulation or
visibility. All off-premise signs shall require written permission from the
property owner (state, county, city, private property owner).
         (d)   Time period. Signs may be erected beginning on Thursday at 8:00
a.m. to the following Sunday at 8:00 p.m.
         (e)   Parcels may have no more than four sale events per year.
         (f)   Signs that do not comply with the regulations stated above may
be removed and disposed of by the city.   
      (7)   Private party and celebration signs (wedding, graduation, birthday,
religious, or similar event) are permitted only during the day of the event.
      (8)   Community event and public information (non-commercial) signs are
permitted. Said signs shall not be located in the roadway or interfere with
vehicular or pedestrian circulation or visibility. All off-premise signs shall
require written permission from the property owner (state, county, city,
private property owner).
      (9)   Real estate signs.
         (a)   Real estate signs for the purpose of selling or leasing
individual lots, units, or buildings are permitted provided the signs do not
exceed ten square feet for residential property and 32 square feet for other
property and provided that only two signs are permitted for each property. Said
signs shall be removed within ten days following the lease or sale.
         (b)   One sign per building for the purpose of leasing dwelling units
in buildings containing two or more units provided the signs are limited to
five square feet in area.
         (c)   Temporary real estate offices and model homes within residential
districts may erect up to four temporary signs per lot not exceeding 32 square
feet.
         (d)   Off-premise directional open house signs may be erected only
during public visitation hours. Said signs shall be limited to six per street
intersection.
         (e)   Off-premise parade of home signs may be erected from Thursday at
8:00 a.m. to Monday at 8:00 a.m. only during the Parade of Home's officially
advertised five-week period.
         (f)   Off-premise directional for sale signs are prohibited.
         (g)   Real estate signs that do not comply with the above requirements
may be removed and disposed of by the city.
         (h)   Temporary development signs. New residential developments of 20
or more dwelling units/lots or commercial/industrial projects four or more
units/lots may erect up to two signs with a commercial message not exceeding
75% square feet per side, with a maximum of two sides. Said signs shall be
removed once 75% of the subdivision is developed.
      (10)   New construction projects. New construction worksites may erect
one sign with a commercial message not exceeding 75 square feet. Said signs
shall be removed ten days after construction is complete.
      (11)   Upon written request to the City Administrator, additional
temporary or portable signs may be allowed in appropriate circumstances. The
number of additional temporary signs shall be subject to City Administrator
approval and the City Administrator may place reasonable restrictions on the
use and placement of such signs.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2008-220, passed 4-24-2008)
§ 153.080 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE.
   (A)   A proposal for a new commercial wireless telecommunication service
tower shall not be approved if one or more of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   Existing or approved towers and/or buildings within the search area
radius could accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to
function properly, as documented by a qualified and licensed professional
engineer;
      (2)   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of the
existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified and
licensed professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot be
reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent
equipment;
      (3)   The planned equipment would cause interference materially impacting
the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or building,
as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer.
   (B)   Any proposed commercial wireless telecommunications service tower
shall be designed in all respects, including structurally and electrically, to
accommodate the applicant's antennas and comparable antennas for at least two
additional users if the tower is more than 100 feet in height or for one
additional user if the tower is less than 100 feet but more than 60 feet in
height. Towers must be designed to allow for future rearrangement of antennas
upon the tower and to accept antennas mounted at varying heights.
   (C)   Proof of non-interference. Each application for construction of a
wireless telecommunication facility shall include either a preliminary or a
certified statement that the construction of the tower, including reception and
transmission functions, will not interfere with radio, television or other
types of public or community wide communications services. In the event only a
preliminary statement is submitted with the application, a final certified
statement of non-interference will be provided and approved by the city prior
to issuance of a building permit. The statement shall be prepared by an
engineer licensed to practice in the State of Minnesota or other professional
who would be accepted by the city.
   (D)   Performance standards for towers.
      (1)   Lot area. See
Appendix B for minimum lot sizes. If additional setbacks are required,
additional lot size may be mandated to meet setback requirements.
      (2)   Setbacks.
         (a)   If the tower is designed to collapse in upon itself, the
structural setbacks for towers need to conform to the setbacks established in
the zoning district standards
Appendix B of this chapter.
         (b)   If the tower is not self collapsing, the setbacks from all
property lines shall be equal to the height of the tower.
      (3)   One accessory building will be permitted on each tower site, but
shall be limited to one story in height, have no more than 1,500 square feet in
floor area, and shall conform to all structural setback requirements of
Appendix B.
      (4)   Towers shall be enclosed within security fencing to prevent
unauthorized entry.
   (E)   Lighting. All lighting on tower sites shall meet FAA or FCC
requirements and shall not result in glare on adjacent property.
   (F)   Obsolete or unused towers. All obsolete and unused towers and
accompanying accessory facilities shall be removed by the property owner within
12 months of the cessation of their use.
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996)
§ 153.081 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of this section is to have a pleasant physical
environment and to protect the public and private property within the city by
regulating the location, standards and maintenance of all swimming pools.
   (B)   Definitions.
      KIDDIE POOL. Any temporary pool causing the retention of water to a depth
of less than one and one-half feet in depth and less than 450 gallons in
capacity.
      SWIMMING POOL. Any permanent or temporary pool, tank, depression or
excavation, in or above ground, or other structure, which shall cause the
retention of water to a depth of two feet or greater and a capacity of 5,000
gallons or more, designed or used for swimming, wading or immersion purposes.
      TEMPORARY POOL. Any SWIMMING or WADING POOL, including portable, storable
or inflatable pools, designed or used for a consecutive time period of less
than six months within a calendar year, and not permanently anchored or affixed
in/to the ground or to a structure.
      WADING POOL. Any permanent or temporary pool, tank, depression or
excavation, in or above ground, or other structure, which shall cause the
retention of water to a depth of less than two feet and a capacity of less than
5,000 gallons, designed or used for swimming, wading or immersion purposes.
   (C)   Building permit.
      (1)   Required. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
inflate, place, alter or repair a swimming pool (as defined above) without
first having secured a permit from the Building Official.
      (2)   Exception. Kiddie pools and wading pools (as defined above) shall
be exempt from the requirement of a building permit; however kiddie and wading
pools shall be subject to the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Location of swimming pools, wading pools, temporary pools and spas.
      (1)   Pools and spas shall not be located within the front yard or
between the front of a principal structure and the adjacent road. Exception:
One kiddie pool, setback at least ten feet from the front property line, may be
allowed within the front yard.
      (2)   Pools and spas shall be setback at least ten feet from the side
property line.
      (3)   Pools and spas shall be setback at least ten feet from the rear
property line.
      (4)   Pools and spas shall not be located within any pathway, drainage
and/or utility easement.
      (5)   Pools and spas shall be setback at least 20 feet from any septic
tank/drainfield.
      (6)   Pools shall be setback at least six feet from any principal
structure or frost footing.
      (7)   All off-season temporary pools shall be stored inside a permanent
structure.
   (E)   Standards.
      (1)   In the case of in-ground pools, the necessary precautions shall be
taken during the construction to:
         (a)   Avoid damage, hazards or inconvenience to adjacent or nearby
property.
         (b)   Assure that proper care shall be taken in stockpiling excavated
material to avoid erosion, dust or other infringements upon adjacent property.
      (2)   All access for construction shall be over the owner's land and due
care shall be taken to avoid damage to public streets and adjacent private or
public property.
      (3)   To the extent feasible, back-flush water or water from pool
drainage shall be directed onto the owner's property or into a public
stormsewer/drainageway. Water shall not drain onto adjacent or nearby private
land.
      (4)   The filter unit, pump, heating unit and other noise making
mechanical equipment shall be located at least 25 feet from any adjacent or
nearby residential structure and not closer than ten feet to any lot line.
      (5)   Lighting for the pool shall be directed toward the pool and not
toward adjacent property.
      (6)   Pool fencing shall comply with the regulations stated in §
153.071, Fences, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (7)   Water in the pool shall be maintained in a suitable manner to avoid
health hazards of any type.
      (8)   All wiring, installation of heating units, grading, installation
pipes and all other installations and construction shall be subject to
inspection.
      (9)   Any proposed deviation from these standards and requirements shall
require a variance in accordance within normal zoning procedures.
      (10)   Backflow valves will be required on all fresh water intake valves
to any permanent type swimming pools.
(Ord. 2006-196, passed 4-27-06; Am. Ord. 2011-247, passed 11-29-2011) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 153.082 RETAINING WALLS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LANDSCAPE WALL. A structure less than four feet in height and constructed
of wood, masonry block or natural stone that is used as part of a landscape
design and not requiring special structural properties as does a RETAINING
WALL.
      RETAINING WALL. A structure constructed of wood, masonry block or natural
stone that is four feet in height or taller and used to support or prevent the
advancement of earth.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   Any retaining wall four feet in height or greater shall require a
building permit.
      (2)   Landscape walls less than four feet in height shall not require a
building permit but shall be subject to the requirements stated in this
section.
      (3)   Terraced retaining walls consisting of separate walls measuring
less than four feet in height and set apart by at least two feet shall not
require a building permit.
   (C)   Application requirements and site inspections.
      (1)   All retaining wall applications shall include an elevation sketch,
drainage details and an official letter and/or plans approved by a licensed
engineer.
      (2)   All retaining wall permit applications shall include a certificate
of survey and site map, drawn to scale, showing/labeling the following:
         (a)   Property address and/or legal description.
         (b)   Fronting street(s) and street names.
         (c)   Property lines and property line dimensions.
         (d)   Proposed retaining wall material/type.
         (e)   Proposed location of the retaining wall and distance from
property lines.
         (f)   Existing objects and/or structures located near the proposed
retaining wall.
      (3)   All retaining wall applicants/installers shall clearly mark the
location of all property corners, boundary lines and the proposed retaining
wall with the assistance of a registered surveyor and/or a certificate of
survey. Such markings may be made with paint, flags, stakes and/or laths before
a site inspection is conducted by the designated city official.
   (D)   Setbacks.
      (1)   All private retaining walls and landscape walls abutting up to or
running parallel with a nearby property line shall be setback at least two feet
from the property line to allow for adequate access and maintenance. Retaining
walls extending over multiple parcels/property lines shall require approval by
the City Engineer and/or Building Official.
      (2)   All private retaining walls and landscape walls shall be setback
away from the edge of any public roadway, trail or sidewalk to allow for
adequate room for access and maintenance.
      (3)   Private retaining walls and landscape walls adjacent to wetlands
shall be setback in accordance with all applicable city, state and federal
wetland buffer regulations as amended from time to time.
   (E)   Drainage, utilities, wetlands and easements.
      (1)   Rights-of-way and easements.
         (a)   Private retaining walls shall not extend into any public rights-
of-way, easements or onto public property except by means of an encroachment
agreement approved by the city. The encroachment agreement shall also be
recorded with the County Recorder's Office. The city retains the right to deny
encroachment requests for any or no reason. Further, the city or any utility
company having authority to use the rights-of-way or easements, shall not be
liable for repair or replacement of landscape/retaining walls in the event that
they are moved, damaged or destroyed by virtue of the lawful use of the
easement.
         (b)   Any landscape or retaining wall placed in a drainage easement
shall not adversely affect drainage or create debris build-up.
         (c)   All landscape or retaining wall applicants and/or property
owners are responsible for verifying that no conflict exists with utilities
prior to installation.
      (2)   Drainage. All retaining walls shall be accompanied with an
appropriate drainage system to adequately relieve water pressure behind the
wall and provide for proper drainage.
   (F)   General requirements.
      (1)   State law applies. All retaining walls shall comply with the
regulations stated in the State Building Code as amended from time to time.
      (2)   Retaining wall barriers. A permanent barrier shall be required at
the top of retaining walls if the height of the drop-off is greater than 2 ½
feet (30 inches) and the top edge of the drop-off is located within five feet
of a public sidewalk or trail. A permanent barrier may also be required at the
top of a retaining wall deemed as an obvious safety threat to the general
public by the city.
      (3)   Nuisance. It shall be the responsibility of all landscape and
retaining wall owners to keep their walls in a condition of good repair and
appearance and not in a condition of disrepair, danger, or constitute a public
or private nuisance. Any landscape or retaining wall shall be considered a
public nuisance, if it does not comply with the following:
         (a)   All landscape/retaining walls shall comply with associated
regulations relating to nuisance and blight stated in the City Code.
         (b)   All landscape/retaining walls shall be constructed firmly in
place and not in a stage of bowing or collapse.
         (c)   All landscape/retaining walls shall be maintained in sound and
good repair and free from loose boards/blocks/boulders, breaks, or gaps not
otherwise intended in the original design of the wall. The wall shall be free
from any defects or condition which makes the wall hazardous.
         (d)   All wooden landscape/retaining walls shall be made of treated or
decay resistant wood.
         (e)   No landscape/retaining walls shall have a failing drainage
system.
(Ord. 2011-242, passed 4-28-2011)
APPENDIX A: SCHEDULE OF USES BY DISTRICT
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional  Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses         Uses
         Group family
         daycare                       Any house or
         facility       Accessory      other                   Information /
         licensed under structures and principal               sales centers
R-1      MN Rules Parts private        structure              with an interim
         9502.0315-     garages        moved onto a            use permit
         9502.0445                     lot                     required
         serving 14 or
         fewer children
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses                                                              Accessory     Conditional  Prohibited Interim
District                                                                             Uses          Uses         Uses       Uses
                                                                                                   Any house or            Information
                                                                                     Accessory     other                   / sales
         Group family daycare facility licensed under MN Rules Parts 9502.0315-      structures    principal               centers
         9502.0445 serving 14 or fewer children                                      and private   structure              with an
                                                                                     garages       moved onto a            interim use
                                                                                                   lot                     permit
                                                                                                                           required
         Licensed in-home residential care facility for 6 or fewer persons           Fences        Cemeteries              
                                                                                     Gardening or
                                                                                     other
         Licensed daycare facility for 12 or fewer persons. Unlicensed daycare       horticultural Churches or
         facilities subject to the requirements of customary home occupations in §  use where no  places of               
         153.073                                                                     sale of       worship
                                                                                     products is
                                                                                     conducted on
                                                                                     the site
                                                                                     Gazebos and   Educational
         Public parks and playgrounds                                                screened      institutions            
                                                                                     porches       or
                                                                                                   facilities
                                                                                                   Licensed in-
                                                                                     Home          home
                                                                                     occupations   residential
         Public and semi-public buildings                                            if all        care                    
R-1                                                                                  criteria is   facility for
                                                                                     met           6 or more
                                                                                                   persons
                                                                                                   Public
                                                                                                   utility
                                                                                                   structure
                                                                                                   that is
                                                                                                   intended for
                                                                                                   human
                                                                                                   occupation,
                                                                                                   occupies an
                                                                                                   area of more
         Public utility structure that is not intended for human occupation,         Landscaping   than 500
         occupies an area of less than 500 square feet; or does not exceed the       and           square feet;            
         height of the highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to   decorative    or exceeds
         peak height of 17 feet, whichever is less                                   features      the highest
                                                                                                   building on
                                                                                                   an adjoining
                                                                                                   lot or an
                                                                                                   average
                                                                                                   grade to
                                                                                                   peak height
                                                                                                   of 17 feet,
                                                                                                   whichever is
                                                                                                   less
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District                               Uses
         Single-family  Off-street
R-1      detached       parking                                   
         dwelling
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional  Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses         Uses
         Single-family  Off-street
         detached       parking                               
         dwelling
         Model homes
         with an        Private play
         administrative equipment                             
         permit
         required
                       Private                               
                        swimming pool
                        Roomers, a
                       maximum of two                        
                        per dwelling
                        unit
                        Satellite
                       dishes and                            
                        solar
                        collectors
                        Temporary
                        buildings
                        located for
R-1                     the purpose of
                        construction
                       on the                                
                        premises for a
                        period not to
                        exceed the
                        time necessary
                        for such
                        construction
                        Yard sales,
                        provided that
                        each sale
                        event runs
                        from Thursday
                        at 8:00 am to
                       the following                         
                        Sunday at 8:00
                        pm and there
                        are no more
                        than four
                        sales per year
                        conducted on
                        the premises
         Agriculture
         uses limited                  Any house or
         to the raising Accessory      other                   Information /
         of crops and   structures and principal               sales centers
R-1A     forestry       private        structure              with an interim
         limited to     garages        moved onto a            use permit
         unplatted or                  lot                     required
         outlotted
         property
 
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses                                                              Accessory     Conditional  Prohibited Interim
District                                                                             Uses          Uses         Uses       Uses
         Group family daycare facility licensed under MN Rules Parts 9502.0315-      Fences        Cemeteries              
         9502.0445 serving 14 or fewer children
                                                                                     Gardening or
                                                                                     other
                                                                                     horticultural Churches or
         Licensed in-home residential care facility for 6 or fewer persons           use where no  places of               
                                                                                     sale of       worship
                                                                                     products is
                                                                                     conducted on
                                                                                     the site
         Licensed daycare facility for 12 or fewer persons. Unlicensed daycare       Gazebos and   Educational
         facilities subject to the requirements of customary home occupations in §  screened      institutions            
         153.073                                                                     porches       or
                                                                                                   facilities
                                                                                                   Licensed in-
                                                                                     Home          home
                                                                                     occupations   residential
         Public parks and playgrounds                                                if all        care                    
                                                                                     criteria is   facility for
                                                                                     met           6 or more
                                                                                                   persons
R1-A                                                                                               Public
                                                                                                   utility
                                                                                                   structure
                                                                                                   that is
                                                                                                   intended for
                                                                                                   human
                                                                                                   occupation,
                                                                                                   occupies an
                                                                                                   area of more
                                                                                     Landscaping   than 500
         Public and semi-public buildings                                            and           square feet;            
                                                                                     decorative    or exceeds
                                                                                     features      the highest
                                                                                                   building on
                                                                                                   an adjoining
                                                                                                   lot or an
                                                                                                   average
                                                                                                   grade to
                                                                                                   peak height
                                                                                                   of 17 feet,
                                                                                                   whichever is
                                                                                                   less
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District                               Uses
         Public utility
         structure that
         is not
         intended for
         human
         occupation,
         occupies an
         area of less
         than 500
         square feet;
R-1A     or does not    Off-street                                
         exceed the     parking
         height of the
         highest
         building on an
         adjoining lot
         or an average
         grade to peak
         height of 17
         feet,
         whichever is
         less
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District                               Uses
         Public utility
         structure that
         is not
         intended for
         human
         occupation,
         occupies an
         area of less
         than 500
         square feet;
         or does not    Off-street                                
         exceed the     parking
         height of the
         highest
         building on an
         adjoining lot
         or an average
         grade to peak
         height of 17
         feet,
         whichever is
         less
         Single-family  Private play
         detached       equipment                                 
         dwelling
         Model homes
         with an        Private
         administrative swimming pool                             
         permit
         required
                        Roomers, a
R-1A                   maximum of two                            
                        per dwelling
                        unit
                        Satellite
                       dishes and                                
                        solar
                        collectors
                        Temporary
                        buildings
                        located for
                        the purpose of
                        construction
                       on the                                    
                        premises for a
                        period not to
                        exceed the
                        time necessary
                        for such
                        construction
                        Yard sales,
                        provided that
                        each sale
                        event runs
                        from Thursday
                        at 8:00 am to
                       the following                             
                        Sunday at 8:00
                        pm and there
                        are no more
                        than four
                        sales per year
                        conducted on
                        the premises
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional  Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses         Uses
         Agriculture
         uses limited                  Any house or
         to the raising Accessory      other                   Information /
         of crops and   structures and principal               sales centers
R-2      forestry       private        structure              with an interim
         limited to     garages        moved onto a            use permit
         unplatted or                  lot                     required
         outlotted
         property
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses                                                              Accessory     Conditional  Prohibited Interim
District                                                                             Uses          Uses         Uses       Uses
                                                                                                   Any house or            Information
                                                                                     Accessory     other                   / sales
         Agriculture uses limited to the raising of crops and forestry limited to    structures    principal               centers
         unplatted or outlotted property                                             and private   structure              with an
                                                                                     garages       moved onto a            interim use
                                                                                                   lot                     permit
                                                                                                                           required
                                                                                                   Attached
         Group family daycare facility licensed under MN Rules Parts 9502.0315-      Fences        single-                 
         9502.0445 serving 14 or fewer children                                                    family
                                                                                                   dwellings
                                                                                     Gardening or
                                                                                     other
                                                                                     horticultural
         Licensed in-home residential care facility for 6 or fewer persons           use where no  Cemeteries              
                                                                                     sale of
                                                                                     products is
                                                                                     conducted on
                                                                                     the site
                                                                                     Farmer's
                                                                                     market or
                                                                                     Christmas
R-2      Licensed daycare facility for 12 or fewer persons. Unlicensed daycare       tree sales    Churches or
         facilities subject to the requirements of customary home occupations in §  when located  places of               
         153.073                                                                     on property   worship
                                                                                     owned by
                                                                                     churches or
                                                                                     places of
                                                                                     worship
                                                                                     Gazebos and   Educational
         Public parks and playgrounds                                                screened      institutions            
                                                                                     porches       or
                                                                                                   facilities
                                                                                                   Licensed in-
                                                                                     Home          home
                                                                                     occupations   residential
         Public and semi-public buildings                                            if all        care                    
                                                                                     criteria is   facility for
                                                                                     met           6 or more
                                                                                                   persons
         Public utility structure that is not intended for human occupation,         Landscaping   Licensed
         occupies an area of less than 500 square feet; or does not exceed the       and           daycare
         height of the highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to   decorative    facility for            
         peak height of 17 feet, whichever is less                                   features      12 or more
                                                                                                   persons
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional    Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses           Uses
                                       Public utility
                                       structure that
                                       is intended
                                       for human
                                       occupation,
                                       occupies an
                                       area of more
                                       than 500
         Single-family  Off-street     square feet;
R-2      detached       parking        or exceeds the            
         dwelling                      highest
                                       building on an
                                       adjoining lot
                                       or an average
                                       grade to peak
                                       height of 17
                                       feet,
                                       whichever is
                                       less
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional    Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses           Uses
                                       Public utility
                                       structure that
                                       is intended
                                       for human
                                       occupation,
                                       occupies an
                                       area of more
                                       than 500
         Single-family  Off-street     square feet;
         detached       parking        or exceeds the            
         dwelling                      highest
                                       building on an
                                       adjoining lot
                                       or an average
                                       grade to peak
                                       height of 17
                                       feet,
                                       whichever is
                                       less
         Model homes
         with an        Private play
         administrative equipment                               
         permit
         required
                       Private                                 
                        swimming pool
                        Roomers, a
                       maximum of two                          
                        per dwelling
R-2                     unit
                        Satellite
                       dishes and                              
                        solar
                        collectors
                        Temporary
                        buildings
                        located for
                        the purpose of
                        construction
                       on the                                  
                        premises for a
                        period not to
                        exceed the
                        time necessary
                        for such
                        construction
                        Yard sales,
                        provided that
                        each sale
                        event runs
                        from Thursday
                        at 8:00 am to
                       the following                           
                        Sunday at 8:00
                        pm and there
                        are no more
                        than four
                        sales per year
                        conducted on
                        the premises
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional  Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses         Uses
         Agriculture                   Any house or            Information /
         uses limited   Accessory      other                   sales centers
R-2A     to the raising structures and principal              with an interim
         of crops and   private        structure               use permit
         forestry       garages        moved onto a            required
                                       lot
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses                                                              Accessory     Conditional  Prohibited Interim
District                                                                             Uses          Uses         Uses       Uses
                                                                                                   Any house or            Information
                                                                                     Accessory     other                   / sales
                                                                                     structures    principal               centers
         Agriculture uses limited to the raising of crops and forestry               and private   structure              with an
                                                                                     garages       moved onto a            interim use
                                                                                                   lot                     permit
                                                                                                                           required
         Attached single-family dwellings                                            Fences        Cemeteries              
                                                                                     Gardening or
                                                                                     other
                                                                                     horticultural Churches or
         Group family daycare facility licensed under MN Rules Parts 9502.0315-      use where no  places of               
         9502.0445 serving 14 or fewer children                                      sale of       worship
                                                                                     products is
                                                                                     conducted on
                                                                                     the site
                                                                                     Gazebos and   Educational
         Licensed in-home residential care facility for 6 or fewer persons           screened      institutions            
                                                                                     porches       or
                                                                                                   facilities
                                                                                                   Licensed in-
                                                                                     Home          home
         Licensed daycare facility for 12 or fewer persons. Unlicensed daycare       occupations   residential
         facilities subject to the requirements of customary home occupations in §  if all        care                    
         153.073                                                                     criteria is   facility for
                                                                                     met           6 or more
R-2A                                                                                               persons
                                                                                     Landscaping   Licensed
                                                                                     and           daycare
         Public parks and playgrounds                                                decorative    facility for            
                                                                                     features      12 or more
                                                                                                   persons
                                                                                                   Public
                                                                                                   utility
                                                                                                   structure
                                                                                                   that is
                                                                                                   intended for
                                                                                                   human
                                                                                                   occupation,
                                                                                                   occupies an
                                                                                                   area of more
                                                                                                   than 500
         Public and semi-public buildings                                            Off-street    square feet;            
                                                                                     parking       or exceeds
                                                                                                   the highest
                                                                                                   building on
                                                                                                   an adjoining
                                                                                                   lot or an
                                                                                                   average
                                                                                                   grade to
                                                                                                   peak height
                                                                                                   of 17 feet,
                                                                                                   whichever is
                                                                                                   less
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District                               Uses
         Public utility
         structure that
         is not
         intended for
         human
         occupation,
         occupies an
         area of less
         than 500
         square feet;
R-2A     or does not    Private play                              
         exceed the     equipment
         height of the
         highest
         building on an
         adjoining lot
         or an average
         grade to peak
         height of 17
         feet,
         whichever is
         less
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional  Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses         Uses
         Public utility
         structure that
         is not
         intended for
         human
         occupation,
         occupies an
         area of less
         than 500
         square feet;
         or does not    Private play                          
         exceed the     equipment
         height of the
         highest
         building on an
         adjoining lot
         or an average
         grade to peak
         height of 17
         feet,
         whichever is
         less
         Single-family  Private
         detached       swimming pool                         
         dwelling
         Two-family     Roomers, a
         dwelling       maximum of two                        
         (duplex)       per dwelling
                        unit
R-2A     Model homes    Satellite
         with an        dishes and
         administrative solar                                 
         permit         collectors
         required
                        Temporary
                        buildings
                        located for
                        the purpose of
                        construction
                       on the                                
                        premises for a
                        period not to
                        exceed the
                        time necessary
                        for such
                        construction
                        Yard sales,
                        provided that
                        each sale
                        event runs
                        from Thursday
                        at 8:00 am to
                       the following                         
                        Sunday at 8:00
                        pm and there
                        are no more
                        than four
                        sales per year
                        conducted on
                        the premises
                                       Any house or            Information /
                                       other                   sales centers
         4-plexes       Common garages principal              with an interim
R-3                                    structure               use permit
                                       moved onto a            required
                                       lot
         Attached       Fences         Cemeteries              
         single-family
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District                               Uses
                        Gardening or
                        other
         Public parks   horticultural  Churches or
R-3      and            use where no   places of                   
         playgrounds    sale of        worship
                        products is
                        conducted on
                        the site
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional    Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses           Uses
                        Gardening or
                        other
         Public parks   horticultural  Churches or
         and            use where no   places of                 
         playgrounds    sale of        worship
                        products is
                        conducted on
                        the site
         Public and     Gazebos and    Educational
         semi-public    screened       institutions              
         buildings      porches        or facilities
         Public utility
         structure that
         is not
         intended for
         human
         occupation,
         occupies an
         area of less
         than 500                      Licensed in-
         square feet;   Home           home
         or does not    occupations if residential               
         exceed the     all criteria   care facility
         height of the  is met         for 6 or less
         highest                       persons
         building on an
         adjoining lot
         or an average
         grade to peak
         height of 17
         feet,
         whichever is
         less
R-3                                    Licensed
                        Landscaping    daycare
         Townhomes      and decorative facility for              
                        features       12 or less
                                       persons
         Model homes
         with an        Off-street
         administrative parking                                 
         permit
         required
                       Private play   Manufactured              
                        equipment      home park
                                       Public utility
                                       structure that
                                       is intended
                                       for human
                                       occupation,
                                       occupies an
                                       area of more
                                       than 500
                        Private        square feet;
                       swimming pool  or exceeds the            
                                       highest
                                       building on an
                                       adjoining lot
                                       or an average
                                       grade to peak
                                       height of 17
                                       feet,
                                       whichever is
                                       less
                        Recreational   Single-family
                       rooms and      detached                  
                        rental offices dwellings
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District                               Uses
                        Roomers, a
R-3                     maximum of two                            
                        per dwelling
                        unit
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional   Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses          Uses
                        Roomers, a
                        maximum of two                         
                        per dwelling
                        unit
                        Satellite
                       dishes and                             
                        solar
                        collectors
                        Temporary
                        buildings
                        located for
                        the purpose of
                        construction
                       on the                                 
                        premises for a
                        period not to
R-3                     exceed the
                        time necessary
                        for such
                        construction
                        Yard sales,
                        provided that
                        each sale
                        event runs
                        from Thursday
                        at 8:00 am to
                       the following                          
                        Sunday at 8:00
                        pm and there
                        are no more
                        than four
                        sales per year
                        conducted on
                        the premises
         Agriculture                   Any house or
         uses limited                  other
         to the raising Common garages principal                
         of crops and                  structure
         forestry                      moved onto a
                                       lot
                        Gazebos and
R-4      Apartments     screened       Cemeteries               
                        porches
         Assisted                      Churches or
         living care    Play equipment places of                
         facilities                    worship
         Public parks   Recreational   Educational
         and            rooms and      institutions             
         playgrounds    rental offices or facilities
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional  Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses         Uses
         Public utility
         structure that
         is not
         intended for
         human
         occupation,
         occupies an
         area of less
         than 500
         square feet;   Satellite
R-4      or does not    dishes and     Manufactured            
         exceed the     solar          home park
         height of the  collectors
         highest
         building on an
         adjoining lot
         or an average
         grade to peak
         height of 17
         feet,
         whichever is
         less
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional    Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses           Uses
         Public utility
         structure that
         is not
         intended for
         human
         occupation,
         occupies an
         area of less
         than 500
         square feet;   Satellite
         or does not    dishes and     Manufactured              
         exceed the     solar          home park
         height of the  collectors
         highest
         building on an
         adjoining lot
         or an average
         grade to peak
         height of 17
         feet,
         whichever is
R-4      less
         Townhouses and                Nursing and
         multi-family   Swimming pools retirement                
         units                         homes
                                       Public utility
                                       structure that
                                       is intended
                        Temporary      for human
                        buildings      occupation,
                        located for    occupies an
                        the purpose of area of more
                        construction   than 500
                        on the         square feet;
                       premises for a or exceeds the            
                        period not to  highest
                        exceed the     building on an
                        time necessary adjoining lot
                        for such       or an average
                        construction   grade to peak
                                       height of 17
                                       feet,
                                       whichever is
                                       less
         Agriculture
         uses limited
         to the raising Accessory
         of crops and   structures and
         forestry       private        Cemeteries                
         limited to     garages
         unplatted or
         outlotted
         property
         Group family
         daycare
         facility
R-R      licensed under                Churches or
         MN Rules Parts Fences         places of                 
         9502.0315-                    worship
         9502.0445
         serving 14 or
         fewer children
                        Gardening or
         Licensed in-   other
         home           horticultural  Educational
         residential    use where no   institutions              
         care facility  sale of        or facilities
         for 6 or fewer products is
         persons        conducted on
                        the site
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses                                                              Accessory Conditional Prohibited Interim
District                                                                             Uses      Uses        Uses       Uses
         Licensed daycare facility for 12 or fewer persons. Unlicensed daycare       Gazebos
R-R      facilities subject to the requirements of customary home occupations in §  and       Kennels                
         153.073                                                                     screened
                                                                                     porches
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses                                                              Accessory   Conditional Prohibited Interim
District                                                                             Uses        Uses        Uses       Uses
         Licensed daycare facility for 12 or fewer persons. Unlicensed daycare       Gazebos and
         facilities subject to the requirements of customary home occupations in §  screened    Kennels                
         153.073                                                                     porches
                                                                                                 Public
                                                                                                 utility
                                                                                                 structure
                                                                                                 that is
                                                                                                 intended
                                                                                                 for human
                                                                                                 occupation,
                                                                                                 occupies an
                                                                                                 area of
                                                                                     Home        more than
                                                                                     occupations 500 square
         Public parks and playgrounds                                                if all      feet; or               
                                                                                     criteria is exceeds the
                                                                                     met         highest
                                                                                                 building on
                                                                                                 an
                                                                                                 adjoining
                                                                                                 lot or an
                                                                                                 average
R-R                                                                                              grade to
                                                                                                 peak height
                                                                                                 of 17 feet,
                                                                                                 whichever
                                                                                                 is less
                                                                                     Landscaping
         Public and semi-public buildings                                            and                               
                                                                                     decorative
                                                                                     features
         Public utility structure that is not intended for human occupation,
         occupies an area of less than 500 square feet; or does not exceed the       Off-street                        
         height of the highest building on an adjoining lot or an average grade to   parking
         peak height of 17 feet, whichever is less
                                                                                     Private
         Single-family detached dwelling                                             play                              
                                                                                     equipment
                                                                                     Private
                                                                                    swimming                          
                                                                                     pool
                                                                                     Roomers, a
                                                                                     maximum of
                                                                                    two per                           
                                                                                     dwelling
                                                                                     unit
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District                               Uses
                        Satellite
R-R                    dishes and                                
                        solar
                        collectors
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional   Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses          Uses
                        Satellite
                       dishes and                             
                        solar
                        collectors
                        Temporary
                        buildings
                        located for
                        the purpose of
                        construction
                       on the                                 
                        premises for a
                        period not to
                        exceed the
                        time necessary
R-R                     for such
                        construction
                        Yard sales,
                        provided that
                        each sale
                        event runs
                        from Thursday
                        at 8:00 am to
                       the following                          
                        Sunday at 8:00
                        pm and there
                        are no more
                        than four
                        sales per year
                        conducted on
                        the premises
                        Accessory
         Clinic         structures,    On-sales                 
                        private
                        garages
                                       Financial
                                       institutions
                                       with drive-
         Club and       Fences         through                  
         lodges                        facilities
                                       including
                                       automated
                                       kiosks
         Day care       Landscaping    Health and
B-1      center,        and decorative recreational             
         licensed       features       clubs
         Financial
         institutions                  Restaurants,
         without drive-                standard
         through        Off-street     excluding                
         facilities     loading        drive-through
         including                     facilities
         automated
         kiosks
         Funeral home   Off-street     Retail shops             
                        parking
                                       Single-family
         Off-sales      Signs          detached                 
                                       residential
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional    Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses           Uses
                        Temporary
                        buildings      Multi-tenant
                        located for    buildings
                        the purpose of provided that
                        construction   the uses are
B-1      Pharmacy       on the         specified as              
                        premises for a permitted or
                        period not to  conditional
                        exceed the     uses in the B-
                        time necessary 1 district
                        for such
                        construction
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional    Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses           Uses
                        Temporary
                        buildings      Multi-tenant
                        located for    buildings
                        the purpose of provided that
                        construction   the uses are
         Pharmacy       on the         specified as              
                        premises for a permitted or
                        period not to  conditional
                        exceed the     uses in the B-
                        time necessary 1 district
                        for such
                        construction
                                       Grain
                                       elevators,
                                       grain storage
                                       structures and
                                       feed mills,
                                       provided the
                                       following
                                       requirements
                                       are met: The
                                       maximum height
                                       may be
                                       extended for
         Places of                    the following             
         worship                       associated
                                       structures and
B-1                                    apparatuses:
                                       Grain leg
                                       distributor
                                       towers and
                                       spouting, 150
                                       ft.; and grain
                                       storage
                                       structures and
                                       elevator
                                       buildings, 100
                                       ft.
         Professional
         and business                                          
         office and
         services
         Public                                                
         buildings
         Public parks
         and                                                   
         playgrounds
         Schools                                               
         Multi-tenant
         buildings
         provided that
         the uses are                                          
         specified as
         permitted uses
         in the B-
         1 District
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District                               Uses
                        Accessory
B-2      Automobile     structures,    Animal                      
         repair - minor private        hospital
                        garages
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional    Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses           Uses
                        Accessory
         Automobile     structures,    Animal                    
         repair - minor private        hospital
                        garages
         Clinic         Fences         Automobile                
                                       repair - major
                        Landscaping    Commercial car
         Garden center  and decorative washes                    
                        features
         Health and     Off-street     Convenience
         recreational   loading        facility                  
         clubs
                        Off-street     Day care
         Off-sales      parking        centers,                  
                                       licensed
                                       Fast food
         On-sales       Signs          restaurants               
                                       with a drive-
                                       through
                        Temporary
                        buildings
                        located for    Financial
B-2                     the purpose of institutions
         Pharmacy       construction   with drive-
         excluding      on the         through                   
         drive-through  premises for a including
         facilities     period not to  automated
                        exceed the     kiosks
                        time necessary
                        for such
                        construction
         Places of      Temporary      Hotel and                 
         worship        outdoor sales  motels
                                       Multi-parcels,
                                       tenants,
                                       buildings
         Professional                  provided that
         and business                 the uses are              
         office and                    specified as
         services                      permitted or
                                       conditional
                                       uses in the B-
                                       2 District
         Public                       Open sales lot            
         buildings
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional  Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses         Uses
         Public parks                  Outdoor
B-2      and                          recreational            
         playgrounds                   areas
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional    Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses           Uses
         Public parks                  Outdoor
         and                          recreational              
         playgrounds                   areas
                                       Outdoor
                                       seating areas
         Public utility                for accessory
         structures                   to permitted              
                                       or conditional
                                       uses in the B-
                                       2 District
B-2      Restaurants,
         fast food                     Pharmacy with
         excluding                    drive-through             
         drive-through
         facilities
         Restaurants,
         standard
         excluding                                             
         drive-through
         facilities
         Retail shops                                          
         and services
                        Accessory      Financial
         Club and       structures,    institutions              
         lodges         private        with drive-in
                        garages        facilities
         Dance, health, Exterior
         and martial    storage        Hotels                    
         arts studios
                                       Indoor
                                       entertainment,
         Day care                      cultural
         facilities     Fences         facilities,               
                                       and services
                                       and amusement
                                       services
                                       Multi-tenant
B-3                                    buildings
         Financial                     provided that
         institutions   Landscaping    the uses are
         without drive- and decorative specified as              
         in facilities  features       permitted or
                                       conditional
                                       uses in the B-
                                       3 District
         Multi-tenant
         buildings                     Residential
         provided that                 uses
         the uses are   Off-street     (apartments),             
         specified as   loading        provided the
         permitted uses                requirements
         in the B-                     listed are met
         3 District
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District                               Uses
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted    Accessory     Conditional Uses  Prohibited   Interim Uses
District Uses         Uses                            Uses
         Museums and  Off-street
         art          parking                                     
         galleries
         Offices and  Outdoor
         professional seating areas                               
         services
         Off-sales    Signs                                       
                      Temporary
                      outdoor sales
         On-sales     and display                                 
                      of
                      merchandise
         Personal                                                
         services
         Pharmacy                                                
         Public                                                  
         buildings
         Public                                                  
         parking lots
B-3      Private                                                 
         parking lots
         Public parks
         and                                                     
         playgrounds
         Restaurants,
         fast food
         excluding                                               
         drive-
         through
         facilities
         Restaurants,
         standard
         excluding                                               
         drive-
         through
         facilities
         Retail
         shops,                                                  
         service, and
         repairs
         Animal       Accessory     Automobile repair Asphalt       
         hospital     structures    - major           plants
I-1      Automobile                 Commercial
         repair -     Fences        wireless          Distillation  
         minor                      telecommunication processes
                                    service
 
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted     Accessory   Conditional    Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District Uses          Uses        Uses
                                   Multiple
                                   parcels,
                                   tenants,
                       Landscaping buildings,
         Contractors'  and         provided that
         office and    decorative  the uses are   Junkyards        
         yards         features    specified as
                                   permitted and
                                   conditional
                                   uses in the
                                   district
                                                  Livestock
                       Off-street  Open sales or  feeding yards,
         Garden center loading     storage lot    slaughterhouse,  
                                                  or processing
                                                  plants
                                   Public utility
I-1                                structure that
                                   is intended
                                   for human
                                   occupation,
                                   occupies an
                                   area of more
                                   than 500
         Manufacturing Off-street  square feet;   Manufacture of
         - light       parking     or exceeds the explosives       
                                   highest
                                   building on an
                                   adjoining lot
                                   or an average
                                   grade to peak
                                   height of 17
                                   feet,
                                   whichever is
                                   less
 
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District                               Uses
                        Retail sales
                        of products
                        manufactured
                        on the site
                        shall be
                        allowed as an
                        accessory use.
                        A maximum of
                        20 percent of
                        the floor area
                        of the total
                        building area.
                        Parking as
                        required for
                        retail uses
                        shall be                   Mining
         Ministorage    provided in               operations       
                        addition to
                        that required
                        for the
                        principal use.
                        If excessive
                        on-street
                        parking of
                        vehicles
                        occurs, the
                        sales shall
                        cease or
I-1                     reduced to the
                        level that
                        off-street
                        parking can
                        accommodate
         Professional                              Petroleum or
         and business   Signage                   ethanol          
         office and                                refineries
         services
                        Temporary
                        buildings
                        located for
                        the purpose of
         Public         construction
         buildings and  on the                    Sanitary         
         facilities     premises for a             landfills
                        period not to
                        exceed the
                        time necessary
                        for such
                        construction
                                                   Any industrial
                                                   that creates an
         Public Parks                              excessive
         and                                     order, noise,    
         Playgrounds                               air, or
                                                   environmental
                                                   pollution
                                                   problem
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District                               Uses
         Public utility
         structure that
         is not
         intended for
         human
         occupation,
         occupies an
         area of less
         than 500
         square feet;
I-1      or does not                                             
         exceed the
         height of the
         highest
         building on an
         adjoining lot
         or an average
         grade to peak
         height of 17
         feet,
         whichever is
         less
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted     Accessory   Conditional Uses  Prohibited    Interim Uses
District Uses          Uses                          Uses
         Public
         utility
         structure
         that is not
         intended for
         human
         occupation,
         occupies an
         area of less
         than 500
         square feet;
         or does not                                             
I-1      exceed the
         height of the
         highest
         building on
         an adjoining
         lot or an
         average grade
         to peak
         height of 17
         feet,
         whichever is
         less
         Warehousing                                             
                                   Agricultural uses
         Animal        Accessory   limited to the    Acid           
         Hospital      structures  raising of crops  manufacturing
                                   and forestry
         Automobile                Automobile repair Asphalt
         repair -      Fences      - major           plants         
         minor
         Contractors'  Landscaping                   Creosote
I-2      offices and   and         Commercial        treatment or   
         yards         decorative  kennels           manufacture
                       features
                                   Commercial
         Garden center Off-street  wireless          Distillation   
                       loading     telecommunication process
                                   service
         Laboratory,   Off-street  Daycare
         medical or    parking     facilities for 12 Junkyards      
         dental                    or more persons
 
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted     Accessory     Conditional   Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District Uses          Uses          Uses
                       Retail sales
                       of products
                       manufactured
                       on the site
                       shall be
                       allowed as an
                       accessory
                       use. A
                       maximum of
                       20% of the
                       floor area of
                       the total
                       building      Multi
                       area. Parking parcels,
                       as required   tenants,
                       for retail    buildings     Livestock
                       uses shall be provided that feeding yards,
         Manufacturing provided in   the uses are  slaughterhouse,  
                       addition to   specified as  or processing
                       that required permitted or  plants
                       for the       conditional
                       principal     uses in the
                       use. If       I-2 District
                       excessive on-
                       street
                       parking of
                       vehicles
                       occurs, the
                       sales shall
                       cease or
                       reduced to
                       the level
I-2                    that off-
                       street
                       parking can
                       accommodate
         Manufacturing Signage       Open sales or Manufacture of   
         - light                     storage lot   explosives
                                     Public
                                     utility
                                     structure
                                     that is
                       Temporary     intended for
                       buildings     human
                       located for   occupation,
                       the purpose   occupies an
                       of            area of more
                       construction  than 500
         Ministorage   on the        square feet;  Mining           
                       premises for  or exceeds    operations
                       a period not  the highest
                       to exceed the building on
                       time          an adjoining
                       necessary for lot or an
                       such          average grade
                       construction  to peak
                                     height of 17
                                     feet,
                                     whichever is
                                     less
                                                   Permanent or
         Professional                              temporary
         and business                            storage of       
         office and                                hazardous waste
         services                                  as a principal
                                                   use
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District                               Uses
         Public                                    Petroleum or
I-2      buildings and                           ethanol          
         facilities                                refineries
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted     Accessory Uses Conditional    Prohibited    Interim Uses
District Uses                         Uses           Uses
         Public                                      Petroleum or
         buildings and                             ethanol        
         facilities                                  refineries
         Public parks                                Rendering
         and                                       plants         
         playgrounds
         Public
         utility
         structure
         that is not
         intended for
         human
         occupation,
         occupies an
         area of less
         than 500
         square feet;
         or does not                               Sanitary       
         exceed the                                  landfills
         height of the
         highest
I-2      building on
         an adjoining
         lot or an
         average grade
         to peak
         height of 17
         feet,
         whichever is
         less
         Research/                                   Sludge
         design                                    disposal       
         facilities
                                                     Any industry
                                                     that creates
                                                     an excessive
         Truck                                     odor, noise,   
         terminal                                    air, or
                                                     environmental
                                                     pollution
                                                     problem
         Warehousing                                             
         Wholesale                                               
         business
                       Accessory      Fenced-in off-
         Concessions   structures and leash dog                    
                       sheds          parks
                                      Freestanding
                                      towers,
                                      antennas,
                                      communication
                                      towers and
                                      associated
                                      accessory
                                      buildings
                                      shall be
P                                     prohibited
         Events        Advertisements within 500                   
                                      feet of
                                      recreational
                                      areas and
                                      facilities.
                                      Exception:
                                      recreational
                                      trails and
                                      pathways may
                                      be allowed
                                      within 500
                                      feet.
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional    Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses           Uses
         Historic                      Private
         buildings,     Exterior       recreational
P        grounds and    storage        facilities and            
         memorial                      areas
         markers
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional    Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses           Uses
         Historic                      Private
         buildings,     Exterior       recreational
         grounds and    storage        facilities and            
         memorial                      areas
         markers
         Natural or
         designed                      Utility
         ponds,                        structures,
         wetlands,      Fencing        stations and              
         waterways and                 related
         stormwater                    equipment
         areas
                                       Wind energy
                                       turbines and
                                       associated
                                       accessory
                                       buildings: (1)
                                       shall be
                                       prohibited
                                       within 500
                                       feet of
                                       recreational
                                       areas and
         Nature and                    facilities.
         conservation   Flags          Exception:                
         areas                         recreational
                                       trails and
                                       pathways may
                                       be allowed
                                       within 500
P                                      feet; (2)
                                       shall be
                                       prohibited
                                       within 1,000
                                       feet of any
                                       residential
                                       dwelling unit.
                        Gardening and
         Open space     other                                   
                        horticultural
                        uses
         Other uses
         customary to   Landscaping
         parks, open    and decorative                          
         space and      features
         recreation
         Parks          Lighting                                
         Public
         shelters,      Off-street                              
         buildings and  parking
         facilities
         Recreation and
         public         Open and
         recreation     enclosed park                           
         facilities and shelters
         areas
         Trails and     Scoreboards                             
         pathways
         Tree and       Seating and
         landscape      viewing areas                           
         nurseries
                       Signage                                 
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional   Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses          Uses
                                       Childcare
                        Accessory      facilities
PF       Composting     structures and associated               
         areas          sheds          with churches
                                       and places of
                                       worship
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional    Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses           Uses
                                       Childcare
                        Accessory      facilities
         Composting     structures and associated                
         areas          sheds          with churches
                                       and places of
                                       worship
                        Exterior       Churches and
         Events         storage        places of                 
                                       worship
                                       Freestanding
                                       towers,
                                       antennas,
                                       communication
                                       towers and
                                       associated
                                       accessory
                                       buildings
                                       shall be
         Fire, police,                 prohibited
         severe weather Fencing        within 500                
         and emergency                 feet of
         facilities                    recreational
                                       areas and
                                       facilities.
                                       Exception:
                                       recreational
                                       trails and
                                       pathways may
                                       be allowed
                                       within 500
                                       feet.
PF       Government
         offices and                   Schools and
         buildings for  Flags          educational               
         government                    facilities
         operations
                                       Wind energy
                                       and associated
                                       accessory
                                       buildings: (1)
                                       shall be
                                       prohibited
                                       within 500
                                       feet of
                                       recreational
         Historical                    areas and
         buildings,     Gardening and  facilities.
         grounds and    other          Exception:                
         memorial       horticultural  recreational
         markers        uses           trails and
                                       pathways may
                                       be allowed
                                       within 500
                                       feet; (2)
                                       shall be
                                       prohibited
                                       within 1,000
                                       feet of any
                                       residential
                                       dwelling unit.
                        Landscaping
         Lift stations  and decorative                          
                        features
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District                               Uses
         Natural or
         designed
         ponds,
PF       wetlands,      Lighting                                  
         waterways and
         stormwater
         areas
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District                               Uses
         Natural or
         designed
         ponds,
         wetlands,      Lighting                                  
         waterways and
         stormwater
         areas
         Nature and     Off-street
         conservation   parking                                   
         areas
                        Open and
         Open space     enclosed park                             
                        shelters
         Parks          Seating and                               
                        viewing areas
         Public
         hospitals and  Signage                                   
         clinics
         Public         Solar                                     
         libraries      collectors
         Public
         shelters,                                               
         buildings and
         facilities
         Public works
         garages and                                             
         related uses
         Pump houses                                             
PF       Recreation and
         public
         recreation                                              
         facilities and
         areas
         Satellite
         dishes,
         building-                                               
         mounted or
         freestanding
         Trails and                                              
         pathways
         Tree and
         landscape                                               
         nurseries
         Utility
         structures,
         stations and                                            
         related
         equipment
         Water and
         wastewater
         treatment                                               
         facilities and
         related
         equipment
         Water towers                                            
         and reservoirs
         Well houses                                             
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Accessory Uses Conditional    Prohibited    Interim Uses
District Uses                     Uses           Uses
                                                 Any industry
                                                 that creates
                                                 excessive
OI       Animal    Accessory      Automobile     odor, noise,   
         hospital  structures     repair - major air, or an
                                                 environmental
                                                 pollution
                                                 problem
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses             Accessory    Conditional Uses  Prohibited    Interim
District                            Uses                           Uses          Uses
                                                                   Any industry
                                                                   that creates
                                                                   excessive
         Animal hospital            Accessory    Automobile repair odor, noise,   
                                    structures   - major           air, or an
                                                                   environmental
                                                                   pollution
                                                                   problem
         Automobile repair - minor  Fences       Commercial                      
                                                 kennels
                                    Landscaping  Commercial
         Contractors’ offices and and          wireless                        
         yards                      decorative   telecommunication
                                    features     service
                                    Off-street   Daycare
         Garden center              loading      facilities for 12               
                                                 or more persons
         Manufacturing              Off-street   Laboratory,                     
                                    parking      medical or dental
                                    Retail sales
                                    of products
                                    manufactured
                                    on the site
                                    (a maximum
                                    of 20% of
                                    the floor
                                    area of the
OI                                  total
                                    building
                                    area).
                                    Parking as
                                    required for
                                    retail uses  Multiple parcels,
                                    shall be     tenants,
                                    provided in  buildings,
                                    addition to  provided that the
         Manufacturing - light      that         uses are                        
                                    required for specified as
                                    the          permitted and
                                    principal    conditional uses
                                    use. If      in the district
                                    excessive
                                    on-street
                                    parking of
                                    vehicles
                                    occurs, the
                                    sales shall
                                    cease or be
                                    reduced to
                                    the level
                                    that off-
                                    street
                                    parking can
                                    accommodate.
         Ministorage                Signage      Open sales or                   
                                                 storage lot
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District                               Uses
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted     Accessory     Conditional   Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District Uses          Uses          Uses
                       Temporary
                       buildings
                       located for
                       the purpose
                       of
         Professional  construction  Public
         and business  on the        utility                       
         office and    premises for  structures
         services      a period not
                       to exceed the
OI                     time
                       necessary for
                       such
                       construction
         Public                      Research/
         buildings and              design                        
         facilities                  facilities
         Public parks                Truck
         and                        terminal                      
         playgrounds
         Warehousing                Wholesale                     
                                     business
                                     Agricultural
                       Accessory     uses limited
         Animal        structures,   to the        Acid             
         hospital      private       raising of    manufacturing
                       garages       crops and
                                     forestry
         Automobile    Fences        Automobile    Asphalt plants   
         repair: minor               repair: major
         Automobile    Landscaping                 Creosote
         service       and           Commercial    treatment or     
         station       decorative    car washes    manufacture
                       features
         Clinic        Off-street    Commercial    Distillation     
                       loading       kennels       processes
         Financial     Off-street    Convenience   Junkyards        
         institution   parking       facility
                                                   Livestock
C-I                                  Day care      feeding yards,
         Garden center Signage       centers,      slaughterhouse,  
                                     licensed      or processing
                                                   plant
                       Temporary
                       buildings
                       located for
                       the purpose
                       of
         Health and    construction  Fast food
         recreational  on the        restaurants   Manufacture of   
         clubs         premises for  with a drive- explosives
                       a period not  through
                       to exceed the
                       time
                       necessary for
                       such
                       construction
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District                               Uses
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory     Conditional    Prohibited    Interim Uses
District                Uses          Uses           Uses
                                      Financial
                                      institutions
         Laboratory,    Temporary     with a drive-  Mining
         medical, and   outdoor sales through        operations     
         dental                       including
                                      automated
                                      kiosks
                                                     Permanent or
                                                     temporary
         Off-sales                   Hotel and      storage of     
                                      motels         hazardous
                                                     waste as a
                                                     principal use
                                                     Petroleum or
         On-sales                    Manufacturing  ethanol        
                                                     refineries
                                      Multi-parcels,
                                      tenants,
                                      buildings
                                      provided that
         Manufacturing:              the uses are   Rendering      
         light                        specified as   plants
C-I                                   permitted or
                                      conditional
                                      uses in the C-
                                      I District
         Mini-storage                Open sales or  Sanitary       
                                      storage lot    landfills
         Pharmacy                     Outdoor
         excluding                   recreational   Sludge         
         drive-through                areas          disposal
         facilities
                                                     Any business
                                      Outdoor        or industry
                                      seating areas  that creates
         Places of                    for accessory  an excessive
         worship                     to permitted   odor, noise,   
                                      or conditional air, or
                                      uses in the C- environmental
                                      I District     pollution
                                                     problem
         Professional
         business                    Pharmacy with                
         office and                   drive-through
         services
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District                               Uses
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional    Prohibited Interim Uses
District                               Uses           Uses
                                       Public utility
                                       structure that
                                       is intended
                                       for human
                                       occupation,
                                       occupies an
                                       area of more
                                       than 500
         Public                        square feet;
         buildings and                or does not               
         facilities                    exceed the
                                       height of the
                                       highest
                                       building on an
                                       adjoining lot
                                       or an average
                                       grade to peak
                                       height of 17
                                       feet
         Public parks
C-I      and                                                   
         playgrounds
         Public utility                                        
         structures
         Recreation,                                           
         commercial
         Research/
         design                                                
         facilities
         Restaurants,
         fast food,
         excluding                                             
         drive-through
         facilities
         Restaurants,
         standard,
         excluding                                             
         drive through
         facilities
         Retail shops                                          
         and services
 
 
Uses Permitted
Land Use Permitted Uses Accessory Uses Conditional Prohibited Uses Interim Uses
District                               Uses
         Warehousing                                             
C-I      Wholesale                                               
         business
 
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2006-191, passed 3-30-2006; Am. Ord. 2006-194,
passed 4-27-2006; Am. Ord. 2006-198, passed 6-26-2006; Am. Ord. 2006-203,
passed 12-14-2006; Am. Ord. 2006-206, passed 12-14-2006; Am. Ord. 2007-207,
passed 1-11-2007; Am. Ord. 2007-209, passed 1-25-2007; Am. Ord. 2007-214,
passed 9-27-2007; Am. Ord. 2008-221, passed 6-28-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-231,
passed 7- 30-2009; Am. Ord. 2010-239, passed 12-30-2010; Am. Ord. 2011-244,
passed 6-30-2011; Am. Ord. 2018-287, passed 5-10-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-289,
passed 7-26-2018)
APPENDIX B: SCHEDULE OF ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS FOR AREA, BULK, PLACEMENT
AND LAND USE INTENSITY
     ZONING DISTRICTS
Item R-1 R-1A R-2 R-2A R-3 R-4 R-R B-1 B-2 B-3 I-1 I-2 P PF OI C-I
          ZONING DISTRICTS
Item      R-1   R-1A   R-2     R-2A    R-3    R-4    R-R   B-1  B-2    B-3   I-1    I-2    P     PF   OI     C-I
Minimum                10,000/ 10,000/                                                                10,000
Lot Area  18,00 11,000 s.f.    s.f.    3,500/ 1,400/ 1.5   n.l. 10,000 3,500 20,000 40,000 5,000 N/A  (6,000 20,000
(Sq. Ft.) 0            12,000/ 12,000/ d.u.   d.u.   acres                                            PE)
                       dup     dup
Minimum                                                                                               70
Lot       100   80     75/s.f. 75/s.f. n.l.   n.l.   150   n.l. 50     n.l.  100    150    50    N/A  (60    100
Frontage               80/dup. 80/dup.                                                                PE)
(ft.)
Minimum
Lot Depth 150   125    130     130     80     n.l.   150   75   100    50    100    250    N/A   N/A  100    200
(ft.)
Maximum
Lot
Coverage                                                                                              80%
(all      30%   45%    45%     45%     60%    70%    30%   80%  90%    100%  80%    75%    N/A   N/A  (90%   75%
structure                                                                                             PE)
s and
paved
surfaces)
Minimum                                                                                               25
Front                                                                                                 (15
Yard      35    30     30      30      25     25     50    10   20     none  35     45     none  none PE,    35
(ft.)                                                                                                 exp
                                                                                                      25)
                                                                                                             25;
                                                                                                             abutting
                                                                                                             arterial
Minimum                                                         20(C/                                        roadways
Rear Yard 30    20     20      20      30     25     50    30   I) -   none  25     25     none  none 15     40;
(ft.)                                                           40(R)                                        abutting
                                                                                                             residential
                                                                                                             districts
                                                                                                             40
Minimum                                                                                               15
Side Yard 15    10     10      10      10     25     25    15   20     none  20     30     none  none (5 PE, 20; corner
(ft.)                                                                                                 exp    lot 35
                                                                                                      15)
     ZONING DISTRICTS
Item R-1 R-1A R-2 R-2A R-3 R-4 R-R B-1 B-2 B-3 I-1 I-2 P PF OI C-I
          ZONING DISTRICTS
Item      R-1 R-1A R-2 R-2A R-3 R-4 R-R  B-1 B-2 B-3  I-1 I-2 P   PF  OI  C-I
Minimum
Lot Width                            50  25         N/A N/A     
(ft.)
Corner
Lot
Secondary
front     35  30   30  30   25  25      10  20  none 35  45            
(Street
Side
Yard)
Maximum Height
Principal 40  40   40  40   40  45  40   35  35  42   40  40  N/A N/A 40  40
Structure ft. ft.  ft. ft.  ft. ft. ft.  ft. ft. ft.  ft. ft.         ft. ft.
Accessory For all R Districts no higher  For all B and I
Structure than principal structure or 20 Districts, no higher N/A N/A     
:         feet, whichever is less.       than principal
                                         structure
G      Garage side of house
H      House side of house
C/I      Abutting commercial or industrial zones
R      Abutting residential zones
PE      Previously existing structures as of December 30, 2010 (if
different); may be expanded as noted
 
(Ord. passed 2-29-1996; Am. Ord. 2009-231, passed 7-30-2009; Am. Ord. 2010-239,
passed 12-30-2010; Am. Ord. 2018-290, passed 11-29-2018)
CHAPTER 154: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
Section
   
154.01   Purpose and intent
   
154.02   Application to certain properties
   
154.03   Allowed uses
   
154.04   Lot, setback, and building height requirements
   
154.05   Integrated design
   
154.06   Procedure
   
154.07   Periodic PUD review
   
154.08   Modifications/amendments of a PUD
   
154.09   Additional requirements
   
154.10   Preexisting PUDs
   
154.11   PUD Districts and entitlements
§ 154.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of the PUD, Planned Unit Development District, is to provide
comprehensive procedures and standards intended to allow flexibility in the
development of residential neighborhoods and/or nonresidential areas that would
not be possible under a conventional zoning district. The decision to zone
property to a PUD is a public policy decision for the City Council to make in
its legislative capacity. The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Provide for the establishment of PUD (Planned Unit Development) zoning
districts in appropriate settings and situations to create or maintain a
development pattern that complies with the Comprehensive Plan;
   (B)   Allow for the mixing of land uses within a development when such
mixing of land uses could not otherwise be accomplished under this title;
   (C)   Provide for variations to the strict application of the land use
regulations in this title in order to improve site design and operation, while
at the same time incorporating design elements (for example, construction
materials, landscaping, lighting, and the like) that exceed the city's
standards to offset the effect of any variations;
   (D)   Promote a more creative and efficient approach to land use within the
city, while at the same time protecting and promoting the health, safety,
comfort, aesthetics, economic viability, and general welfare of the city;
   (E)   Preserve and enhance natural features and open spaces;
   (F)   Maintain or improve the efficiency of public streets and utilities;
and
   (G)   Ensure the establishment of appropriate transitions between differing
land uses.
(Ord. 2018-290, passed 11-29-2018)
§ 154.02 APPLICATION TO CERTAIN PROPERTIES.
   PUD Districts shall be applied to property only in conjunction with projects
which fulfill the purpose of such application. PUD zoning designations shall
not be applied to property in advance of specific development applications.
(Ord. 2018-290, passed 11-29-2018)
§ 154.03 ALLOWED USES.
   All permitted uses, permitted accessory uses, conditional uses, interim
uses, and uses allowed by administrative permit contained in the various base
zoning districts defined in § 153.040 shall be treated as potential allowable
uses within a PUD District, provided they would be allowed on the site under
the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 2018-290, passed 11-29-2018)
§ 154.04 LOT, SETBACK, AND BUILDING HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   The various lot area, lot width, setback, and building height regulations of
the most closely related conventional zoning district shall be considered
presumptively appropriate but may be departed from to accomplish the purpose
and intent of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-290, passed 11-29-2018)
§ 154.05 INTEGRATED DESIGN.
   A PUD shall consist of a harmonious arrangement and selection of land uses
in groupings of buildings that are planned and designed as an integrated unit.
The integrated design shall include elements such as building orientation and
materials, utilities, parking areas, traffic and pedestrian circulation,
landscaping, and open spaces.
(Ord. 2018-290, passed 11-29-2018)
§ 154.06 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Concept/sketch plan. Prior to the filing of a formal application, the
applicant shall submit a concept/sketch plan of the project to the City
Planner/Zoning Administrator. A concept/sketch plan shall be processed
according to the information requirements, standards, and procedures for
concept/sketch plans as established by §
153.066.
   (B)   Development stage plan. Development stage submissions shall depict and
outline the proposed implementation of the concept/sketch plan stage for the
PUD. Information from the concept/sketch plan stage may be included for
background and to provide a basis for the submitted plan. The development stage
submissions shall include, but not be limited to, the submission requirements
stipulated in §
153.066.
   (C)   Final stage plan. After approval of the development stage plan, the
applicant may apply for final plan approval for all or a portion of the PUD.
The applicant shall submit the following material for review by and approval of
the City Planner/Zoning Administrator prior to issuance of any building permit
(s):
      (1)   If the PUD will be developed in different phases, the applicant
shall submit a phasing plan for construction of the various elements of the
entire PUD;
      (2)   Development plans in final form, based on the approved development
stage plan, covering that portion of the PUD where building permits will be
requested under the phasing plan;
      (3)   Proof of recording any easements and restrictive covenants prior to
the sale of any land or dwelling unit within the PUD and of the establishment
and activation of any entity that is to be responsible for the management and
maintenance of any public or common open space or service facility;
      (4)   All certificates, seals, and signatures required for the dedication
of land and recordation of documents;
      (5)   Final architectural working drawings of all structures;
      (6)   A final plat and final engineering plans and specifications for
streets, utilities and other public improvements, together with a development
contract agreement for the installation of such improvements and financial
guarantees for the completion of such improvements; and
      (7)   Any other plan, agreements, or specifications necessary for the
City Planner/Zoning Administrator to review the proposed final plan.
   (D)   Processing.
      (1)   Pre-application meeting. Prior to the filing of an application for
PUD, the applicant of the proposed PUD is encouraged to arrange for and attend
a meeting with the City Planner/Zoning Administrator. The primary purpose of
the meeting shall be to provide the applicant with an opportunity to gather
information and obtain guidance as to the general suitability of his proposal
for the area for which it is proposed and its conformity to the provisions of
this chapter before incurring substantial expense in the preparation of plans,
surveys, and other data.
      (2)   Concept/sketch plan. Prior to the filing of a formal application,
the applicant shall submit a concept/sketch plan of the project to the City
Planner/Zoning Administrator. A concept/sketch plan will be processed according
to the information requirements, standards, and procedures for concept/sketch
plans as established by division (A) of this section.
      (3)   Development stage.
         (a)   Application procedure. PUD zoning applications shall be
processed according to the evaluation criteria and procedures outlined in §
153.024.
         (b)   Information requirements.
            1.   The information required for all PUD development stage plan
applications shall be as specified in §
153.066.
            2.   The City Planner/Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission,
and/or City Council may excuse an applicant from submitting any specific item
of information or document required by this division which it finds to be
unnecessary to the consideration of the specific PUD being considered.
         (c)   Zoning enactment. A rezoning of a parcel of land to PUD shall
not become effective until such time as the City Council approves an ordinance
reflecting said amendment, which shall take place at the time the City Council
approves the development stage plan.
      (4)   Final stage. After approval of a development stage plan for all or
a portion of the proposed PUD, the applicant shall submit the materials
outlined in division (C) of this section for review by the City Planner/Zoning
Administrator prior to issuance of a building permit(s).
(Ord. 2018-290, passed 11-29-2018)
§ 154.07 PERIODIC PUD REVIEW.
   The City Council may require periodic review of a PUD as a condition to
approval of a PUD development stage plan in order to ensure compliance with the
conditions of the PUD. At such time, the City Council may, at its discretion,
choose to take additional testimony on the PUD.
(Ord. 2018-290, passed 11-29-2018)
§ 154.08 MODIFICATION/AMENDMENTS OF A PUD.
   (A)   Minor plan modifications/amendments. Plan modifications/amendments
qualifying as minor may be processed as an administrate permit and approved by
the City Administrator or his/her designee.
   (B)   Major plan modification/amendments. The same review procedure shall be
followed for a major modification/amendment of a PUD as was followed with
respect to the applicant's development stage plan.
(Ord. 2018-290, passed 11-29-2018)
§ 154.09 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Records kept. The City Planner/Zoning Administrator shall maintain a
record of all PUD Districts and ordinances approved by the city, including
information on a project's allowed uses, all pertinent project plans, any
conditions imposed on a project by the City Council, and such other information
as the City Planner/Zoning Administrator may deem appropriate.
   (B)   Withdrawal of application. Any application under this chapter may be
withdrawn by an applicant without prejudice at any time prior to final City
Council action thereon.
   (C)   Platting of a PUD. In the event that a PUD is to be subdivided into
lots or parcels for the purpose of separate ownership, such PUD shall be
platted under the platting procedures of
Chapter 152, Subdivisions, and the related requirements of the county. The
preliminary plat shall be processed in conjunction with the development stage
plan as outlined in §
154.06(D)(3). A separate action on the final plat shall be processed before the
City Council prior to or in conjunction with the final stage of the PUD.
   (D)   Conveyance of property within a PUD. In the event that any real
property within an approved PUD is conveyed in total or in part, the buyer(s)
thereof shall be bound by all provisions of the PUD and the general plan for
that project. However, nothing in this division shall be construed as to make
such conveyed property nonconforming with regard to normal zoning standards as
long as the conveyed property conforms with the approved PUD and the
development plan for a project.
   (E)   Agreement/financial guarantee. Following the approval of the
development plan but prior to final plan approval, the applicant shall enter
into an agreement with the city relating to the terms of the PUD, and shall
also provide such financial guarantees as the city requires or deems necessary.
Such agreement may take the form of:
      (1)   A development contract; and/or
      (2)   Site improvement performance agreement; and/or
      (3)   Another form of legally binding instrument as may be required by
the city.
(Ord. 2018-290, passed 11-29-2018)
§ 154.10 PREEXISTING PUDS.
   (A)   PUDs which pre-date the adoption of this chapter, as listed below,
shall remain in force except as otherwise amended.
      (1)   Ord. 2004-157 - Harmony (Centennial) Meadows Planned Unit
Development;
      (2)   Ord. 2005-163 - Eagle Creek Planned Unit Development;
      (3)   Ord. 2006-204 - Villas of Willow Creek Heights Planned Unit
Development;
      (4)   Ord. 2015-263 - Villas of Willow Creek Heights II Planned Unit
Development; and
      (5)   Ord. 2016-271 - Villas of Willow Creek Heights III Planned Unit
Development
   (B)   PUDs and associated ordinances which pre-date the adoption of this
chapter, as listed below, are hereby deleted and no longer of any force or
effect.
      (1)   Ord. 2007-211 - Rolling Ridge Market Place (CIC #62) PUD; and
      (2)   Ord. 2016-269 - Overlay Zoning Districts and Rolling Ridge Market
Place PUD.
(Ord. 2018-290, passed 11-29-2018)
§ 154.11 PUD DISTRICTS AND ENTITLEMENTS.
   PUDs which do not pre-date the adoption of this chapter and their approved
entitlements are listed in the
Table of Special Ordinances, Table IV: Other Special Ordinances.
(Ord. 2018-290, passed 11-29-2018)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS AND EXTENSIONS
         
II.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
         
III.   ZONING CHANGES
         
IV.   OTHER SPECIAL ORDINANCES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS AND EXTENSIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
54C      6-26-1969   Annexing land located in the southwest quarter of the
                     northwest quarter of S25, T112, R22
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
55       9-28-1972   certain unincorporated property owned by and abutting upon
                     the limits of the city
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
56       9-28-1972   certain unincorporated property owned by and abutting upon
                     the limits of the city
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
57B      4-24-1974   certain unincorporated property owned by and abutting upon
                     the limits of the city
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
58       4-24-1974   certain unincorporated property owned by and abutting upon
                     the limits of the city
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
59       8-28-1975   certain unincorporated property owned by and abutting upon
                     the limits of the city
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
60       6-24-1976   certain unincorporated property owned by and abutting upon
                     the limits of the city
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
63       10-29-1981  certain unincorporated property owned by and abutting upon
                     the limits of the city
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
82       11-17-1988  certain unincorporated property owned by and abutting upon
                     the limits of the city
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
92       5-18-1995   unplatted land located in the southwest quarter of the
                     northwest quarter and the north half of the southeast
                     quarter of the northwest quarter of S36, T112N, R22W
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include 60
93       6-1-1995    acres or less of unplatted land located in the northeast
                     quarter of the northeast quarter of S27, T112N, R22W
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include 60
99       6-17-1997   acres or less of unplatted land located in the south half
                     of the southwest quarter of S26, T112N, R22W
2003-131 4-24-2003   Annexing at a point 193.4 feet south of the northeast
                     corner of S26, T112N, R22W
2003-132 4-24-2003   Annexing the easterly 38.44 acres of that parcel located
                     in part of the southwest quarter of S24, T112, R22
2003-133 4-24-2003   Annexing land located in the southwest quarter of the
                     southwest quarter of S25, T112, R22
2003-136 6-26-2003   Annexing the west half of the southeast quarter of S25,
                     T112N, R22W
2003-137 7-10-2003   Annexing the part of the south half of the southwest
                     quarter of S26, T112N, R22W
2003-139 8-15-2003   Annexing the north half of the east half of the southeast
                     quarter, S25, T112N, R22W
2004-142 4-15-2004   Extending the corporate limits of the city of Lonsdale to
                     include certain land owned by on-site marketing
2004-143 4-15-2004   Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
                     certain land owned by Montgomery/Lonsdale School District
2004-153 9-30-2004   Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
                     certain land owned by Donald TRCKA
2004-154 9-30-2004   Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
                     certain land owned by Donald TRCKA
2004-155 9-30-2004   Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
                     certain land owned by Bakken Development, Inc.
2005-160 1-13-2005   Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
                     certain land owned by Paul and Colleen Kalina
2005-161 1-13-2005   Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
                     certain land owned by On-Site Marketing
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
2005-162 1-27-2005   certain land owned by Legacy Land Development of
                     Minnesota, LLC
2005-166 2-24-2005   Extending the corporate limits fo the city to include
                     certain land owned by Mattamy Minneapolis Partnership
2005-168 3-31-2005   Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
                     certain land owned by Bakken Development, Inc.
2005-171 4-28-2005   Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
                     certain land owned by On-Site Marketing
2005-177 7-14-2005   Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
                     certain land owned by On-Site Marketing.
2005-180 10-13-2005  Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
                     certain land owned by Willow Creek Ponds, LLC
2019-299 11-25-2019  Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
                     certain land owned by Chaka Investments.
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting The Webster Farmers' Cooperative Telephone
8        - -         Company a telephone exchange and toll line terminals
                     franchise
22       2-14-1919   Granting Standard Oil Company an oil and petroleum
                     distribution franchise
23       8-19-1921   Granting Gunderson Electricity Company an electricity
                     distribution franchise
24       8-19-1921   Granting Gunderson Electricity Company an electric street
                     lighting franchise
33       6-28-1934   Granting Minnesota Valley Natural Gas Company a gas
                     distribution franchise
33A      1-27-1955   Amendment; granting Minnesota Valley Natural Gas Company a
                     gas distribution franchise
39A      3-27-1946   Granting Northern States Power Company an electricity
                     distribution franchise
46       8-7-1956    Granting Minnesota Valley Natural Gas Company a gas
                     distribution franchise
46A      7-30-1956   Granting Second Avenue West Sewer Association a sewer
                     construction franchise
52A      2-25-1965   Granting Northern States Power Company an electricity
                     distribution franchise
73       12-6-1983   Granting Wes-Tel, Inc., a cable television franchise
76       2-28-1985   Granting Northern States Power Company an electricity
                     distribution franchise
96       5-30-1996   Granting Steele Waseca Cooperative Electric an electricity
                     distribution franchise
97       10-31-1996  Granting Minnesota Valley Electric Cooperative an
                     electricity distribution franchise
2004-149 6-24-2004   Granting Lonsdale Video Ventures a cable communications
                     franchise
2005-169 3-31-2005   Granting to Northern States Power Company an electricity
                     distribution franchise
2005-178 9-8-2005    Granting Lonsdale Video Ventures, LLC a cable
                     communications franchise
2005-181 10-13-2005  Granting Greater Minnesota Gas, Inc. a natural gas
                     franchise
2006-190 3-30-2006   Granting Centerpoint Energy a gas franchise
2020-301 2-27-2020   Granting BEVCOMM a cable communications franchise
2020-302 3-26-2020   Granting Mediacom Minnesota, LLC a cable communications
                     franchise
                    
 
TABLE III: ZONING CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
78-B     6-9-1987    Amendment; rezoning certain property
78-C     6-15-1989   Amendment; rezoning certain property
2000-113 11-15-2000  Rezoning certain property from R-1 to B-2
2000-114 12-21-2000  Rezoning certain property from B-1 to R-2
2003-134 5-29-2003   Rezoning certain property from R-1 to R-2
2003-135 5-29-2003   Rezoning certain property from R-1 to R-2
2003-138 7-10-2003   Rezoning certain property from R-1 to R-2 and B-3
2004-144 3-25-2004   Rezoning certain property from R-1 to R-2
2004-151 7-15-2004   Rezoning certain property from B-3 to B-2
157      10-14-2004  Rezoning certain property from R-1 to PUD
158      10-14-2004  Rezoning certain property from R-1 to R-2
2005-163 2-10-2005   Rezoning certain property from R-2 and R-1 to PUD-R
2005-164 2-10-2005   Rezoning certain property from R-1 to R-2
2005-170 4-28-2005   Rezoning certain property from R-1A to R-2
2005-174 6-30-2005   Rezoning certain property from Governmental to I-2
2005-182 11-10-2005  Rezoning certain property from R-1 to R-2
2006-192 4-27-2006   Rezoning certain property from R-2 to R-2A
2006-200 8-31-2006   Rezoning certain property from R-2 to B-2
2006-204 12-14-2006  Rezoning certain property from R-2A to PUD
2006-205 12-21-2006  Rezoning certain property as I-2
2007-211 3-29-2007   Rezoning certain property from B-3 to PUD
2008-222 6-26-2008   Rezoning certain property from I-2 to PUD
2008-223 8-28-2008   Rezoning certain property from R-1 to I-2
2008-224 9-11-2008   Rezoning certain property as R-2
2008-225 10-30-2008  Amendment; rezoning certain property
2009-231 7-30-2009   Rezoning certain property as P and PF
2010-239 12-30-2010  Rezoning certain property from I-1 and I-2 to OI
2014-260 11-13-2014  Rezoning certain property as I-2
2015-263 4-9-2015    Rezoning certain property from R-2A to PUD-WCHV
2016-271 12-22-2016  Rezoning six lots within Willow Creek Heights 3rd
                     Addition, from R-2A to PUD-WCHV
2017-276 3-30-2017   Rezoning property located at 618 Industrial Drive SE from
                     B-2 to I-2
2018-289 7-26-2018   Rezoning certain property from P to B-2
2019-297 5-30-2019   Rezoning certain property from P, R-2, PF, PUD-HM, and B-
                     3 to R-1A, P and PF
                    
 
TABLE IV: OTHER SPECIAL ORDINANCES
 
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
2016- 8-25-  Opting out of the requirements of M.S. § 462.3593, which defines and
270   2016   regulates temporary family health care dwellings, pursuant to
             authority granted by § 462.3593(9)
2018- 11-28- Zoning the Rolling Ridge Market Place as PUD
291   2018
2022- 11-21- Amending zoning of the Rolling Ridge Market Place from PUD to B-2
314   2022
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
Reference to Minnesota Rules
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cite Code Section
M.S. Cite                      Code Section
Ch. 13                         31.01
14.57–14.70                  110.42,
                               110.65
15.73, subd. 3                 92.17
Ch. 18G                        53.06
18G.13                         53.06
65B.48                         73.02
84.872                         72.02
88.16–88.22                  91.12,
                               150.02
103G.005, subd. 19             152.04
115.061                        115.10
116.06, subd. 11               115.01
144.391                        112.01
157.15, subd. 9                116.02
157.16                         110.22
157.16, subd. 3(d)             110.22
                               70.01,
Ch. 168                        70.03,
                               70.06
168.011(22)                    72.01
168.02                         115.01
168.021                        153.078
168.345                        153.078
168B.035                       71.05
                               70.01,
Ch. 169                        70.03,
                               73.07,
                               73.12
169.01                         115.01
169.21                         96.03
169.121                        72.02
169.346                        153.078
169.522                        73.09
169.70                         73.07
169.791                        73.02
Ch. 171                        70.01,
                               70.03
216B.02                        92.17
216B.02, subd. 4               92.17
216B.02, subd. 6               92.17
216C.06, subd. 14              153.025
Ch. 216D                       92.20,
                               92.31
                               92.25,
216D.01–216D.09              92.31,
                               92.40
237.16                         92.15
                               92.15,
237.162                        92.17,
                               92.33,
                               92.63
237.162, subd. 4               92.17
                               92.15,
                               92.17,
237.163                        92.33,
                               92.61,
                               92.63
237.163, subd. 2(b)            92.16
237.163, subd. 6               92.45
237.79                         92.15
237.81                         92.15
Ch. 238                        92.17
238.086                        92.15
243.166                        131.03
243.167                        131.03
244.052                        131.02
Ch. 253B                       131.02
Ch. 308A                       92.17
Ch. 326B                       150.01
326B.082, subd.16              150.01
326B.121, subd. 2(d)           150.01
326.133, subd. 1               150.01
326B.148                       150.01
327.31                         153.003
327.35                         153.003
Ch. 329                        111.02
                               94.02,
                               110.20,
                               110.21,
Ch. 340A                       110.29,
                               110.42,
                               110.65,
                               113.02
340A.24                        110.28
340A.28                        110.28
340A.101                       110.22,
                               110.28
340A.285                       110.28
340A.301, subd. 6(a)           110.28
340A.301, subd. 6(c), (I), (j) 110.28
340A.301, subd. 6(d)           110.28
340A.4011, subd. 1             110.28
340A.404, subd. 1(4)           110.48
340A.404, subd. 4(a)           110.28
340A.404, subd. 4(b)           110.28
340A.404, subd. 5              110.28
340A.404, subd. 11(b)          110.28
340A.408                       110.29
340A.408, subd. 2(b)           110.28
340A.408, subd. 3              110.28
340A.408, subd. 5              110.29
340A.409                       110.31,
                               110.47
340A.413                       110.48
340A.413, subd. 3              110.26
340A.414                       110.41
340A.414, subd. 6              110.28
340A.504                       110.39
340A.504, subd. 3              110.28
340A.504, subd. 3(c)           110.28
340A.509                       110.21
340A.707                       110.25
340A.801                       110.31
342.01                         130.04
347.31, subd. 2                90.18
347.515                        90.02
364.06                         31.01
364.09                         31.01
Ch. 429                        92.38
429                            152.28
429.021                        153.062
429.101                        53.07,
                               91.02
444.075(3)                     52.07
Ch. 453                        92.17
Ch. 453A                       92.17
Ch. 462                        92.38
462.352, subd. 5               152.04
462.354, subd. 2               153.025
462.357, subd. 6               153.025
462.357, subd. 6(1)            153.079
462.358                        152.04
463.15 et seq.                 91.02
463.251                        91.02
471.6985                       110.46
471.87                         153.021
Ch. 469                        31.02
469.184                        31.03
Ch. 505                        152.04,
                               153.003
515B.1-103                     152.04
609.72                         113.02
609.342                        131.02
609.343                        131.02
609.344                        131.02
609.345                        131.02
609.352                        131.02
609.365                        131.02
609.725                        130.03
617.23                         131.02
617.246                        131.02
617.247                        131.02
617.293                        131.02
624.20                         93.01
Ch. 7009                       153.057
Ch. 7030, subd. 0040           153.057
                               
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rules Cite Code Section
Minn. Rules Cite       Code Section
Ch. 1300               150.01
Ch. 1510               150.02
1720.1400–1720.1550  90.18
4715.0100              52.24
                       70.01,
Ch. 7030               70.03,
                       91.05
                       92.15,
Ch. 7560               92.25,
                       92.31,
                       92.33
7560.0150, subp. 2     92.38
7819.0050–7819.9950 92.15
7819.1000, subp. 3     92.23
                       92.17,
7819.1100              92.28,
                       92.33,
                       92.65
7819.1250              92.43
7819.1300              92.34
7819.3000              92.28
7819.3100              92.39
7819.3200              92.42
7819.4000              92.38
7819.4100              92.38
7819.5000              92.33,
                       92.39
7819.5100              92.39
7819.9900–7819.9950  92.17,
                       92.65
9502.0315–9502.0445  153.040,
                       Chapter 153, Appendix A
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
8        - -         T.S.O. II
22       2-14-1919   T.S.O. II
23       8-19-1921   T.S.O. II
24       8-19-1921   T.S.O. II
33       6-28-1934   T.S.O. II
39A      3-27-1946   T.S.O. II
33A      1-27-1955   T.S.O. II
46A      7-30-1956   T.S.O. II
46       8-7-1956    T.S.O. II
49       9-28-1961   113.01
51       12-6-1962   113.01
52A      2-25-1965   T.S.O. II
54A      - -         52.01–
                     52.07
51B      4- -1969    92.02
54C      6-26-1969   T.S.O. I
55       9-28-1972   T.S.O. I
56       9-28-1972   T.S.O. I
57B      4-24-1974   T.S.O. I
58       4-24-1974   T.S.O. I
59       8-28-1975   T.S.O. I
60B      12-5-1975   52.01–
                     52.07
60       6-24-1976   T.S.O. I
61       6-24-1976   130.02
57A      - -1978     50.01–
                     50.08
63       10-29-1981  T.S.O. I
73       12-6-1983   T.S.O. II
76       2-28-1985   T.S.O. II
                     152.01–
                     152.05,
                     152.21,
78A      8-22-1985   152.22,
                     152.24 -
                     152.28,
                     152.40–
                     152.43
78-B     6-9-1987    T.S.O. III
81       10-27-1988  92.01
82       11-17-1988  T.S.O. I
78-C     6-15-1989   T.S.O. III
54B1     9-28-1989   52.01–
                     52.07
86       4-25-1991   94.01,
                     94.02
                     90.01,
                     90.15–
87       4-16-1992   90.17,
                     90.19–
                     90.25
91       6-30-1994   130.01
92       5-18-1995   T.S.O. I
93       6-1-1995    T.S.O. I
94       10-26-1995  71.01–71.07
95       11-30-1995  30.02
                     153.001–
                     153.008,
                     153.020–
                     153.025,
                     153.027,
                     153.040–
                     153.042,
—      2-29-1996   153.055–
                     153.068,
                     153.071,
                     153.073,
                     153.075-
                     153.080,
                     Ch. 153, Appendices
                     A,
                     B
96       5-30-1996   T.S.O. II
97       10-31-1996  T.S.O. II
99       6-17-1997   T.S.O. I
100      6-26-1997   51.07
84A      2-26-1998   52.01–
                     52.07
101      2-26-1998   112.01–
                     112.12
106      4-29-1999   151.01
107      7-29-1999   51.01–
                     51.06
99-109   12-16-1999  72.01–
                     72.07
2000-110 - -2000     31.01
2000-112 10-26-2000  91.01–
                     91.06
2000-111 10-27-2000  52.20–
                     52.29
2000-113 11-15-2000  T.S.O. III
2000-114 12-21-2000  T.S.O. III
2002-123 11-20-2002  30.01
                     114.01–
2003-127 1-16-2003   114.13,
                     114.99
2003-128 2-27-2003   95.01–
                     95.05
2003-130 2-27-2003   32.01
2003-131 4-24-2003   T.S.O. I
2003-132 4-24-2003   T.S.O. I
2003-133 4-24-2004   T.S.O. I
2003-134 5-29-2003   T.S.O. III
2003-135 5-29-2003   T.S.O. III
2003-136 6-26-2003   T.S.O. I
2003-137 7-10-2003   T.S.O. I
2003-138 7-10-2003   T.S.O. III
2003-139 8-15-2003   T.S.O. I
2003-140 12-18-2003  31.03
2004-141 1-6-2004    32.01
2004-142 4-15-2004   T.S.O. I
2004-143 4-15-2004   T.S.O. I
2004-144 3-25-2004   T.S.O. III
2004-145 4-15-2004   32.01
2004-147 5-13-2004   Adopting Ordinance
2004-149 6-24-2004   T.S.O. II
2004-151 7-15-2004   T.S.O. III
2004-152 7-15-2004   153.071
2004-153 9-30-2004   T.S.O. I
2004-154 9-30-2004   T.S.O. I
2004-155 9-30-2004   T.S.O. I
157      10-14-2004  T.S.O. III
158      10-14-2004  T.S.O. III
2005-159 1-6-2005    32.01
2005-160 1-13-2005   T.S.O. I
2005-161 1-13-2005   T.S.O. I
2005-162 1-27-2005   T.S.O. I
2005-163 2-10-2005   T.S.O. III
2005-164 2-10-2005   T.S.O. III
2005-165 2-24-2005   33.01–
                     33.09
2005-166 2-24-2005   T.S.O. I
2005-167 3-31-2005   150.01–
                     150.03
2005-168 3-31-2005   T.S.O. I
2005-169 3-31-2005   T.S.O. II
2005-170 4-28-2005   T.S.O. III
2005-171 4-28-2005   T.S.O. I 
2005-172 5-26-2005   33.08
2005-173 6-9-2005    153.061
2005-174 6-30-2005   T.S.O. III
2005-175 7-14-2005   31.02
2005-176 7-14-2005   32.01
2005-177 7-14-2005   T.S.O. I
2005-178 9-8-2005    T.S.O. II
                     91.01–
2005-179 9-29-2005   91.12,
                     91.99
2005-180 10-13-2005  T.S.O. I
2005-181 10-13-2005  T.S.O. II
2005-182 11-10-2005  T.S.O. III
2005-183 11-10-2005  71.01–71.08
2006-184 1-5-2006    32.01
2006-185 1-12-2006   33.01
2006-186 1-12-2006   33.08
2006-187 1-12-2006   30.01
2006-188 1-26-2006   153.020–
                     153.027
2006-189 1-26-2006   153.062
2006-190 3-30-2006   T.S.O. II
2006-191 3-30-2006   153.040,
                     Ch. 153, Appendix A
2006-192 4-27-2006   T.S.O. III
                     152.01–
                     152.07,
                     152.20–
2006-193 4-27-2006   152.28,
                     152.40–
                     152.44,
                     152.99
2006-194 4-27-2006   Ch. 153, Appendix A
2006-195 4-27-2006   153.065
2006-196 4-27-2006   153.081
2006-198 6-26-2006   153.040,
                     Ch. 153, Appendix A
2006-199 6-26-2006   153.062
2006-200 8-31-2006   T.S.O. III
2006-201 10-12-2006  153.007
2006-202 11-30-2007  Adopting Ordinance
2006-203 12-14-2006  153.040,
                     Ch. 153, Appendix A
2006-204 12-14-2006  T.S.O. III
2006-205 12-21-2006  T.S.O. III
2006-206 12-14-2006  153.040,
                     Ch. 153, Appendix A
2007-203 1-5-2007    32.01
2007-207 1-11-2007   153.040,
                     Ch. 153, Appendix A
2007-208 1-11-2007   153.008
2007-209 1-25-2007   153.040,
                     Ch. 153, Appendix A
2007-210 3-8-2007    32.01
2007-211 3-29-2007   T.S.O. III
2007-212 4-16-2007   71.01–71.08
2007-213 6-14-2007   96.01–
                     96.03
2007-214 9-27-2007   153.040,
                     Ch. 153, Appendix A
2007-215 10-29-2007  153.007
2007-216 12-13-2007  94.01,
                     94.02
2007-217 12-27-2007  153.071
2008-218 1-7-2008    32.01
2008-219 1-31-2008   10.99
2008-220 4-24-2008   153.079
2008-221 6-28-2008   153.040,
                     Ch. 153, Appendix A
2008-222 6-26-2008   T.S.O. III
2008-223 8-28-2008   T.S.O. III
2008-224 9-11-2008   T.S.O. III
2008-225 10-30-2008  T.S.O. III
2009-227 1-5-2009    32.01
2009-228 3-26-2009   32.01
2009-229 4-30-2009   Adopting Ordinance
                     30.01,
2009-230 7-30-2009   53.01–
                     53.11,
                     53.99
                     153.040,
2009-231 7-30-2009   Ch. 153, Appendices A,
                     B;
                     T.S.O. III
2009-233 11-12-2009  70.05,
                     70.99
2010-234 1-7-2010    32.01
2010-235 4-8-2010    32.01
2010-236 4-29-2010   150.01
2010-237 6-10-2010   32.01
2010-238 11-8-2010   90.01
                     153.040,
2010-239 12-30-2010  Ch. 153, Appendices A,
                     B;
                     T.S.O. III
2011-240 1-6-2011    32.01
2011-242 4-28-2011   153.071,
                     153.082
2011-243 6-9-2011    32.01
2011-244 6-30-2011   153.040,
                     Ch. 153, Appendix A
                     70.01–
2011-246 9-29-2011   70.04,
                     70.06,
                     70.99
2011-247 11-29-2011  153.081
2012-249 1-3-2012    32.01
2012-250 3-29-2012   153.025
2012-252 10-25-2012  Adopting Ordinance
                     151.01–
2012-253 10-25-2012  151.09,
                     151.99
2012-254 10-25-2012  153.072
2013-255 1-3-2013    32.01
2014-256 1-6-2014    32.01
2014-257 4-24-2014   71.01–
                     71.05
2014-258 7-31-2014   32.01
2014-259 11-13-2014  153.040
2014-260 11-13-2014  T.S.O. III
2015-261 1-8-2015    32.01
2015-263 4-9-2015    T.S.O. III
2015-264 4-30-2015   90.02
2015-265 4-30-2015   153.040
2016-266 1-14-2016   32.01
2016-267 2-11-2016   33.01–
                     33.09
2016-268 3-10-2016   31.02
2016-269 6-9-2016    153.040
2016-270 8-25-2016   T.S.O. IV
2017-271 12-22-2016  T.S.O. III
2017-272 1-12-2017   32.01
2017-273 1-26-2017   Adopting Ordinance
2017-274 2-23-2017   131.01–
                     131.04
                     91.06,
2017-275 4-13-2017   91.07,
                     153.077,
                     153.078
2017-276 3-30-2017   T.S.O. III
2017-277 3-30-2017   31.02
                     110.20–
2017-278 6-8-2017    110.48,
                     110.99
2017-279 9-14-2017   32.01
2017-281 11-9-2017   90.01,
                     153.040
2017-282 11-9-2017   32.01
2017-283 1-11-2018   32.01
2018-284 1-25-2018   153.074
                     73.01–
2018-285 3-29-2018   73.13,
                     73.99
2018-286 3-29-2018   32.01
                     153.003,
2018-287 5-10-2018   153.040,
                     Ch. 153, Appendix A
2018-288 6-28-2018   Adopting Ordinance
                     153.040,
2018-289 7-26-2018   Ch. 153, Appendix A,
                     T.S.O. III
                     153.040,
2018-290 11-29-2018  Ch. 153, Appendix B,
                     154.01–
                     154.11
2018-291 11-28-2018  T.S.O. IV
2018-292 11-29-2018  153.074
2019-293 1-3-2019    32.01
2019-294 2-27-2019   153.074
                     92.15–
2019-295 3-25-2019   92.48,
                     92.60–
                     92.65
2019-296 5-30-2019   73.02
2019-297 5-30-2019   T.S.O. III
2019-298 8-8-2019    Adopting Ordinance
2019-299 11-25-2019  T.S.O. I
2020-300 1-2-2020    32.01
2020-301 2-27-2020   T.S.O. II
2020-302 3-26-2020   T.S.O. II
2020-303 12-21-2020  Adopting Ordinance
2021-304 1-4-2021    32.01
2021-305 3-25-2021   153.062
2021-306 10-14-2021  33.01–
                     33.09
2021-307 10-14-2021  33.10
2022-308 1-3-2022    32.01
2022-309 3-31-2022   30.01,
                     153.021
2022-310 3-31-2022   153.078
2022-311 3-31-2022   116.01–
                     116.04
2022-312 6-9-2022    153.074
2022-313 10-24-2022  Adopting Ordinance
2022-314 11-21-2022  T.S.O. IV
2022-315 12-29-2022  32.01
2023-316 6-29-2023   30.02
2023-318 8-31-2023   31.01
2023-319 8-31-2023   153.040
2023-320 9-14-2023   130.04
                    
 
 
